ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First, I inform you that the two members of the legislature have inherited the vote from the spokesman of their party, and that the sixth point in the subject-list has been left for another. First point in theme list: "The law of the law of the law of legislation favors a fundamental revenue without condition. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. According to the performance of the legislative law proposition, 149 and 86.2 articles have been handled by the people, it will be a beginning of discussion to present and defend its action with the representative of the legislation. Then one turn and another, thirty minutes. And after that, two shifts to answer, ten minutes. After the vote, any team will have a vote if that's what you want. So we'll call Mrs. Itzian Guerendaiin Gabás first. Your word is for defending the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today and here we have a crucial opportunity for the development of the Euscal Autonomy Erelician Laws. This parliament has a power to take fundamental controversies and decisions in hand for the future: To guarantee the right of public administrations to account for the means which all the citizens require to be worthy of their lives. This decision has become incalculable in a context, where poverty and social inequality are continually increasing, that employment is becoming more and more premeditative, and that old amerist models of social politics are not effective, and have been proved long ago to fail; especially, considering the immense consequences of pandemism and great inflation, to the increase of the cost of life which belongs to it. This popular community of legislation proposes Eukadin to establish an unconditional income. Consecrately, he proposes the income which the public administration will pay, which is of the same or more quantity of the index of poverty. Independently and individually, for all the persons who live in our community. This income would be consistent with any other income or contribution, even with the domestic aids. Until this right is universal in our country. If we are here today it is thanks to the 22,075 signatures of support that we have gathered between Basque citizenship between the months of September and December last year. This effort has only been made possible by the voluntary work of dozens of activists who have supported the collection of signatures at hundreds of tables that have been placed in towns, neighbourhoods and cities throughout the Euskadi. We also have to thank the more than 80 accessions that we have had by various social organizations and groups, as well as the support of the Basque trade unions, so that this initiative can be accepted here today as a legislative proposal in this Parliament. All this shows a clear reality: the time has come to address the political debate on unconditional basic income. It is time to implement new public policies capable of ending poverty in our territory, to redistribute the wealth we generate among all, and to guarantee a dignified life, beyond relying exclusively on a labour market that is increasingly unbalanced... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... among all, and to guarantee a dignified life, beyond relying exclusively on a labour market that is increasingly unbalanced, more precarious and more unjust. We wonder, we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, if it is not now time to end poverty in Euskadi, when according to the Foessa report published earlier this year, one in six people around us are living in a situation of social exclusion; 17.6% more than in 2018. We wonder if now is not the time to end wealth, when the difference between those who win the most and those who win the least has increased by 18% since the 2008 crisis. When higher incomes have continued to grow by 20%, while lower incomes have fallen by 3%; a group where we are casually overrepresented women, migrant people, families with minors and young people. We wonder whether today, when 115,000 households in Euskadi - 10.3 per cent of the population - are dependent on a person suffering from severe labour instability, it is no longer the time to look for new economic policy measures that can guarantee the right to a decent life, beyond the occupation, or not, of a job. The Basque Government, in its unfavorable opinion to take account of this popular legislative initiative, has avoided entering into the debate on the proposal for unconditional basic income that we are carrying out, stating that "Euskadi already has a model of success in this area", in reference to the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion. The reasons given by the Government to justify this unfavorable approach, in addition to de facto disregarding one of the few means of democratic participation in force, is also a gross leak to avoid confrontation between the two models, limiting itself to "talking about your book" and defending RGI. We are surprised - but above all we are concerned - that the Basque Government can speak of GIR as a "model of success", when according to the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities of 2020, 30% of the Basque population at risk of poverty is unable to access GIR because the number of requirements that are being demanded makes it completely impossible. But in addition, the people who are accessing, among them only 47% - this is less than half - are getting out of poverty. Calling this a "model of success" is not a simple hyperbole: it is a cynical concealment of reality. The time has come to dare to explore new ways. The old paradigm of conditional subsidies has not only proved incapable of eradicating poverty here in Euskadi, after more than 30 years of operation. It has also proved to be completely unsuccessful in the countries of the European continent and in the territories of the Spanish State in which it has been established since the 1980s of the last century. Moreover, this idealization of employment as a means of access to rights, and the centrality of wages as a means of obtaining the resources that make it possible to have a decent life, are increasingly faced with a reality where the risk of exclusion is closest to more people. In recent years we have seen how high unemployment rates are living together with increasingly precarious and over-exploited jobs, and where it is compatible to have more than one job and not be able to reach the end of the month. In a context where employment occupies the centrality of our lives, care tasks - essential for the maintenance of life - are being held back under the labour exploitation of essentially migrant women. Political participation and community life have been fragmented and disintegrated into a bad life in which we do not even have time to think. And all of this at a time of global civilizational crisis - of which the pandemic is just one of its last symptoms - in which we are facing a future of climate emergency and a shortage of materials that will further exacerbate the current conditions of poverty and inequality. We need new tools to combat poverty effectively, to go beyond the work and family system - as Kathi Weeks says - and to demerchantize the right to a dignified life. It is about broadening the framework of what is possible. To combat poverty, but not by accepting it or subsidizing it, but by addressing its causes and avoiding its emergence. A goal that will never be able to meet a model like the one we currently have, because it only addresses poverty when this is already a scourge installed between us. It is a question of giving people greater bargaining capacity in the labour market, which allows them to say no to junk jobs, and to be able to choose freely where we want to invest our working time. It is about guaranteeing the right to live beyond employment, in order to cultivate our bonds and affective networks, to participate politically in our communities and to share equally the tasks of sustaining life, in a transition to decrease and reduce the rates of production and consumption. It's time to start building a different future. Faced with this idea that unconditional basic income is a financially and socially unsustainable utopia, the various pilot projects that have been carried out around the world, and also the financing models that have been developed in numerous research - also with data at the level of Euskadi - are proving that the implementation of unconditional basic income would be perfectly manageable by our community. Obviously, this funding will require a radical reform of our tax system, to redirect it towards a more just model for the majority, and with a greater redistributive effect, something that was already being recommended in 2018 by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of the United Nations, in its Final Comment 16, to the last Report on the Spanish State. Continue discrediting the unconditional basic income by utopia, with the tax fraud and tax asymmetry that we are suffering... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... to the last report on the Spanish State. To continue discrediting the unconditional basic income by utopia, with the tax fraud and tax asymmetry that we are suffering, only responds to an obstinate intention to avoid sharing wealth and continue to concentrate it in the hands of a few. As we have been defending since this initiative for a long time, it is not a question of whether or not we can. It's about whether you want it or not. There are many voices that agree with us that the time for unconditional basic income has come. Various institutions at the international level, from the International Labour Organization, the General Secretariat of the United Nations, passing through the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and including Pope Francis, are defending that unconditional basic income is a measure that public administrations should consider and value. Many professionals in the field of culture, from different sectors, from education to social work, people from the feminist movement and LGBTQ, have also spoken in their favour. Recently also, the Manifesto for an Ecological Economy in the Euskal Herria Post covid, promoted by the UPV/EHU, and signed by more than 4000 people and 191 organizations, proposed, among other measures, the establishment of an unconditional basic income. It is clear that the excuses for circumventing the political debate on this proposal are no longer used at this stage: it is only a matter of political will. Unconditional basic income, whatever your decision here today, will be a reality that will continue to claim its space as a measure of economic and social policy, absolutely feasible here and now. Today, you have in your hand the possibility of moving towards new models of expanding and strengthening social rights in our Community, or, on the contrary, of continuing to repeat old inadequate formulas, which impoverish and exclude a considerable sector from it. Dare to comply with the 1966 International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and progress in social policies that guarantee the right of everyone to an adequate standard of living and decent living conditions. And dare also to realize an approach where Human Rights, Sustainable Human Development, the 2030 Agenda, Policy Coherence for Development, as well as Auzolan, are really the parameters that define our strategies, as proposed in 2018 by Lehendakari himself in the Prelogue of the IV Master Plan for Development Cooperation. We hope from you today that we vote for the conversion of this legislative people into the tramite. Thus, in a more democratic government, you will show that you are engaged to the intervention of the citizens. But even with the struggle against poverty and inequality, in order to place life in the centre, in order to attain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u2	Thank you, Mrs Guerrendit. Silence. Next, who wants to be a part of the party? Side shift? Okay, so together, Podemos, who is the representative of the Animozite, is a woman of hatred.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u3	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning. Especially to you, good morning and thank you. It's emotional. It's true, it's very emotional what we saw here today. It's not the usual thing... We're not used to it, and we're not used to it. the symbolic charge behind him, and everything he tells us behind, must make us think about it. And it's exciting to see you have the ability to do what you've done and to defend yourself here. So particularly to you, thank you. At the moment it is that we live on a global level besides, it is a crisis of political representation. And one of the elements that best reflects in this crisis is the low turnout that exists in the elections in Euskadi. It's loud. That is why it is so important for organised civil society to be able to collect no less than 22,000 signatures to present a legislative initiative. And I believe that the mere demonstration of the power and capacity of citizens to mobilize and to influence politics - which is not easy at all, is very difficult enough for this House to take its proposal into consideration. Just for that. That's enough. It should be taken into consideration. In fact, I would like to give some figures, because the figures are also eloquent. In Alava territory, for example, about 4,500 votes are enough to get a seat in this House, 4,500 votes in Alava offers you a seat. Here we have 22,000 signatures of Basque citizens who deserve your proposal to be taken into consideration in this House. That is why, and I thank all the people, all the organizations that have signed and signed this proposal, because they are... Not only because of their capacity, but because they are also the example of politics, of the way we make policy that we defend from our political space. We really believe in the need to do politics from below, from the neighborhoods, from the cities, from the villages, from the social movements, from the unions, from civil society. And you are the example of those who do not succumb to the disenchantment of politics. Again, therefore, I would like to thank you again for not leaving politics solely in the hands of representatives, intermediaries between citizenship and public authorities, between citizenship and the State. People's direct political participation... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... citizenship and public authorities between the State, between citizenship and the State. People's direct political participation broadens democracy. With the processing of this initiative we have the opportunity, moreover, that this date becomes a historic day. A historic day insofar as we are going to debate, in which we can discuss at parliamentary level an issue which is already being discussed... which is already present, of course, in the academic sphere, and which is endorsed by international bodies such as the UN, has been referred to, and the Council of Europe too, and which always originates in social mobilization. Its handling could make this Parliament the vanguard of a new right in social matters that updates a welfare state that is haunted by the shock of financial power, or on the contrary, today could turn this day into the day on which we turned our backs on this Basque citizen who has seen his purchasing capacity impaired, or who lives in conditions of chronically precarious life. When we talk about leaving no one behind, we talk about the need to implement rights, just like the one that has been brought here today. We share with the promoter of this initiative that the Government has given no strong reason to issue an unfavorable approach. The fact that the reform of the GIR is in progress does not nullify the possibility of opening the debate on the technical and economic viability of this popular basic income legislative initiative. Both proposals can coexist, are complementary, are not incompatible. On the lack..., on the fact that the RGI does not meet all expectations or all needs, the defender of the initiative has already given some figures, I have explained it perfectly, and I will not affect them again. But it is also, and I believe that this is the core of the issue, what is being proposed here is to open the institutional debate of a socio-economic tool that does not share the same basis as conditioned income, as conditioned income. Discussions are under way on the opportunities offered by this proposal where conditioned rents are limiting. Moving towards fairer, more dignified, more flexible services is not incompatible with building other alternatives, with launching new paths. Unconditionality, as stated in the initiative, in its explanatory statement, would present a number of advantages that we share from our political space. They save administrative costs. At present, a very high percentage of benefit funds are used precisely to finance the bureaucracy that manages how and who deserves to receive them. In addition, it would also prevent the poverty of those who are receiving the subsidy from being chronicled, as they could look for other jobs to increase their income without the threat of losing aid. Getting out of poverty shouldn't be a tortuous path full of demands and requirements to prove the value, the merit of..., of deserving that help. It is a right to a dignified existence, and in this case, as we are defending the right to a dignified existence, which it is up to the Administration to demonstrate something, it is up to it to demonstrate the capacity to guarantee this right to a dignified life. Unconditionality, moreover, frees people who receive the help of social stigmatization that comes with assistanceism, and above all, the unconditional guarantee of minimum resources provides a basis for people to be more free and less afraid to decide how we want our lives to be. And it is that unconditional basic income is a way of understanding social policy, not from welfareism, but from justice. It pursues an ethical horizon of unconditional eradication of poverty. That is why, it is true, it represents a real paradigm shift on how we understand society and its exclusion on the value we give to the lives of others, on the right to the dignity of society as a whole, and we, starting from a certainty, and it is the condition of possibility, that the condition of possibility of poverty is the wealth and privilege of a few. In any case, one of the arguments on which basic income is based, which is accredited by academics and experts in the field, is its economic viability. It has also been explained by the proponent of the initiative is feasible. Therefore, I also refer to what I was saying. And it is feasible and this possibility on January 23, 2018 – this has not been referred to and I would like to bring it here – on January 23, 2018, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a resolution was adopted in which its 47 member states were encouraged to promote basic and unconditional income in order to advance the achievement of rights and social cohesion. Among the resolutions that included this that was adopted, the third expressly stated: "A universal basic income to all its members on an individual basis, without work requirements". And he kept saying: "defined as universal, individual, unconditional and sufficient to guarantee a dignified life." In fact, this resolution is quite similar to the initiative that has been brought to this House today. And I remember that resolution very well because I was there, I was there, and I voted in favour of that resolution. But not only did I vote in favour of that resolution, I was my colleague Jokin Bildarratz, and he also voted in favour, as the representatives of the People's Party of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also voted in favour. What has happened along the way, what is good for the Council of Europe is not good for Euskadi? That's something I can't understand... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... What is the Council of Europe worth is not the case for Euskadi? That's something I can't understand. The free market, where the employability of individuals is framed, is not designed to guarantee the social integration of all people, nor does it respond to that purpose. And that is why social exclusion is not the counterpart of the ideological paradigm of personal success. Let us recognize the interdependence of all who integrate society. All collective and common efforts should be directed towards the social integration of all individuals apart from the causes and opportunities that may have led them to be in a situation of poverty. The material conditions of decent living must be guaranteed, and this is the principle we believe should be recognised in this Parliament through the very handling of this popular legislative initiative. There are considerations that are determining the composition of pockets of poverty in our society - reference has also been made to this -. And the increase in precariousness has a very clear face, it was also said, of women, of single-maritime households, of households headed by immigrant women as well and of households where boys and girls see their future conditioned by the poverty they inherit from their parents. With a universal basic income we would win all people. The entire society would benefit if it were committed to a right that would guarantee the material existence of all citizens. Just as we all win, the whole society wins, with universal, individual, guaranteed, unconditional public health or education. To finish. We, our political space, bet on unconditional basic income, not only for the progress it represents in our welfare state, but - and this is very important - because we defend the right to decide on Basque citizenship. Here's the right to decide. This is the right to decide on Basque citizenship. The right to real and effective participation. Because we believe that we must foster more direct forms of democracy. We believe that people should feel challenged by politics. This is the way to tackle the representational crisis we are experiencing. Furthermore, we also believe in sovereignty at all levels, at the political, economic and personal levels. Because if the material needs of citizenship are not met, we cannot talk about full political freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u5	Yes, thank you. First of all, thank you for giving me a chance this evening, a discussion like this for bringing me to this parliament, and all the work that I did for my congratulations. I shall venture to say that the discussion of this day is one of the most interesting and important discussions which have hitherto been discussed in this legislation. We are here to discuss a proposition that is more than a legislative people and more than 220,000 people. There is no discussion of any kind to-day, and it seems to us as if we were to give him the importance of it. First of all, as I said, congratulations. Congratulations on creating a legislative people, and overcoming the difficult work required by such procedures. Congratulations on the doubling of the 10,000 signatures required for transmation, and showing that the exascals really have the interest and the desire to change things. A popular legislative initiative is not baladi. In fact, I would dare to ensure that it is one of the most direct ways in which we have citizenship to influence current institutional policy. We know that the procedure of parliaments is not easy. And we know perfectly well that bureaucracy, deadlines and other difficulties make the way to this Parliament very difficult. But here we are. After months of work, a few assemblies and, above all, after talking to a lot of people, you have managed to register the first popular legislative initiative of this legislature. For what? For the Basque parliamentarians to have a deep debate, a debate that already exists on the street. I seriously believe that after this work not to support this law to continue its process is to turn your back on the work of the citizenry and on the work that you represent today. We're living overtime. In the first place, panic was an excuse, now a war, but it is more and more obvious that these attacks are not exceptional. The successive and systems of life are the reflection of this system, which is more and more destructive. We can already talk about pandemic capitalism, and of the multiple and structural crisis that causes it, the precertative, myrgetic and ecological crisis, a whole generation of young men who can't pass through, the reduction of public services... This is to say, that a few are to be paid to others at the expense of the majority. At a time of social, economic and ecological crisis, when uncertainty is real and the course of what we believed we do not know or what it is, when the fear of the few certainties that the future will face us is real, a proposal in the form of a law endorsed by more than 22,000 citizens comes to Parliament. And I won't tire of saying it, 22,000 citizens. A law with a clear proposal: a universal basic income. But above all a law with a clear horizon: a dignified and free life for all, lives that are worth living. That is why we believe that this popular legislative initiative not only serves us... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... dignified and free life for all, lives worth living. That is why we believe that this popular legislative initiative not only serves us to debate whether we want to implement a universal basic income or not: it serves us to talk about where we are going, how we want to get there, what the collective horizon we want to aspire to and what we can do to really improve people's lives. In short, for us, on which pillars we will promote well-being in the twenty-first century. Because we are at a time when what we do or stop doing can condition an entire generation, and because of the real options it poses for building a shared horizon, this debate is very timely, but, above all, it is relevant and interesting, because it is not only about the implementation of a concrete public policy. We wish to place this question under the more general debate on the course of the pattern. We must speak of the pattern, of the root change of pattern. How shall we create and divide wealth, when wealth is in the hands of the less and the less? How to create and distribute in the name of economic growth when the planet is destroying? How is it possible to create and distribute wealth when, under conditions for a few, we live? There are many questions on the table, as I said, and, to answer properly, a change of frame and pattern must be given. In order to do so, one must speak of fine demeritations and demeritations, because it has a thousand limits to which prosperity and rights are obliged. On the one hand, he takes only a few jobs for the sake of neglecting the feminized works which are essential to life and to support. On the other hand, only a few enrich themselves according to this pattern. Besides, it rests on the mantran of growth, on the shoulders of other countries or generations to come. When uncertainty and prevarication have been opened and structured, besides the dignity of employment, we think we must step forward to redistribution of job, care, and fortune's roots, from the model in which the employment is placed at the centre. And the disfamily, on the other hand, because universal rights, conditional and individual, must be understood to be the interdependence of the subject which is in common. As well as the support of living, rights and liberties cannot depend on families, for this model produces terrible differences from the first, if some of them begin to be born in certain families and to begin their lives on the slope, and others to go downhill, the policy of dispensation to a public watch. All this demands that the public leader who plans, argues, and executes this. Public politicians and exact measures cannot be an excuse for managing them any way at the moment. I don't think it's good to mortgage to tomorrow with partial solutions today. To solve today's issues, we need policies to build the future. And for this purpose ambition is required: The horizon is not a diminution of differences, but of equality. The horizon is to live with dignity. All this demands ambition, it demands courage, and demands a proper disposition of debate. And, of course, we have need of applying structure measures: By strengthening the public services, by securing the housing, by securing the protection system, or launching a system of tribute. We're talking about setting up a change that's going to be root and structured. A basic universal income is a public policy, a form, a formula. We can be either on or on the side of this, but opinions are very different. But in this discussion of today, whether or not we admit a legislative people to the tramit, we are discussing it. And the need for this discussion has been stated by the 220,000 people. When the security of many citizens is turned upside down, and the limits of our systems, our privations, our defects, and our inability are revealed, we have an excellent chance of reaching an inevitable discussion. Besides, this discussion would not only remain in the legislature; It's a discussion that we would have made with the people. And I'd say that we have a great opportunity to live real Parlamenarism. And let's not mess this up. It will be a discussion to secure revenue from the options between rent and the basic income, but we can't see this discussion that way. It's a discussion of the collective contrivances we have to open today, in order to guarantee worthy lives, because that's what we're proposing to discuss here. Nothing can be finished today, but everything must begin today. Today, we'll have to start the drill, we'll have our proposals crossed, we'll have to get our positions ready, we'll get our agreements... Today we have an excellent opportunity to occupy a collective political construction with our fellow-citizens. Today's question is not whether the universal income is applied to de facto. Today's question is another: Are political parties prepared to discuss this proposal of the law brought by the people? To refuse today is to turn back to the people who are wanted by the people in the legislature and in the agenda of political parties. We have repeated it a thousand times, and will not tire it: the aim of politics is not to content ourselves with what we have. The goal is not to keep what we have. The goal is to have the ability to guarantee worthy lives, to have strong public policies that will enable us to build vital lives. And that's what makes it possible to work with perspective to extend the frame of possible. In this Parliament we are very used to closing the debates in very few minutes. Less thought is given to what model we want to follow. Do we do the same thing we've done so far or do we really change course? Universal basic income is not something new; there are pilot projects that are active, for example, in Catalonia. We wanted to bring a basic income of emancipation for young people, a proposal that could hardly be discussed in depth. Why? Because the... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... We wanted to bring a basic income of emancipation for young people, a proposal that could hardly be discussed in depth Why? Because the answer is always the same: there is already this, there is already and the other is done this. But why do we not now wonder what common horizon we want to create? What future world do we want to live in? We have to change the questions, and we believe clearly, because we see it, that what we now have, the current public policies, are not able to sustain the lives of all people. Model change, direction change; for us, there is no other option. We've learned that in the past many years we're vulnerable and interdependative, that our lives can't be read separately because we're not just who we're in the bathroom. We've learned that life is the greatest, and that we need an economic and social model that our bodies will place in the centre of our desires. We believe that another collective horizon is possible, and because we want it, we vote for it today. In this law we must make bold debates. We need to know where we're going. The day after tomorrow and the day after, what institutions have to offer to this people by euscal institutions. In order that this transformation may be possible, we seek to account for the immense contributions made by this law-maker of the people. The following is a citizen's request. It is an opportunity to penetrate into the democratization, to increase the capacity of deciding as a citizen, in order that we may be able to construct a different pattern. It's rare that we have the chance to start all of us arguing about this sort of thing. We seldom have a chance to hear, cultivate, and carry on. To discuss a legislator of the people ought to be a luxury in such a parliament, that it ought to be a luxury to listen, cultivate, and carry on what the people have to say. So, thank you a thousand times for the work you've done, for bringing me to the legislature. And we want your proposition to be useful in the future to give real discussions and transformations. He's got a lot of work to do, and thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. We'll go in reverse shift. Anybody want to be involved? No? [[Berber]] The debate is ended, whether the legal proposition of the law of the people of legislation be taken notice of or not. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 47; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u7	So, it's not taken seriously that the popular equipment vote is − − util Maria's vote. After this vote, we'll go to a vote. Missta-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning also to the representatives of this popular initiative. First of all, it is fair to acknowledge the efforts of the proponents of this popular legislative initiative, which has also achieved considerable support and citizen support. A respectable initiative, but that we cannot support by defending a model that is far from what Vox promotes. We are all aware of the doubts generated by the management that this Basque Government is making of the various aids: income guarantee income, supplementary housing benefit, social emergency aid, and from now on also the minimum living income. We have repeatedly criticised the improved connection of these tools with the labour market, and the chronisation of aid for the difficulties of many beneficiaries in achieving stable work, and also by the decision of the beneficiary himself not to work. All this without forgetting the irregular use that some people have made of these aids. In the case now under discussion, the main problem lies in the unconditional word, to which is added the claim that it is received without any requirement for compensation, and that it is not conditional on the integration of the beneficiary into the labour market or not. In addition to their compatibility (...) or a contributory benefit. It is impossible for us to accept the proposal for an income that is paid to all people without control of their economic resources, not subject to income, savings or property limits. An income not subject to any precondition, such as the obligation to prove its willingness to work. We therefore find it impossible to support a proposal in which the Government pays us for the mere fact that it exists. An initiative that proposes a coercive redistribution of income by the State is not justifiable. Forcing a person to subordinate his or her vital projects to the vital projects of others is unjust, intolerant and contrary to the basics... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ...justifiable. Forcing a person to subordinate his or her vital projects to the vital projects of others is unjust, intolerant and contrary to the social bases of coexistence. That is why we must ask ourselves: Is it efficient from the point of view of economic growth and job creation? And, above all, is it fair? The answer is no. Solidarity is a very laudable goal, but it cannot be imposed by force. It is obvious that instruments to help people in complicated situations have not been effective in combating poverty. Basically because that is not their goal, because they have been designed to alleviate situations of extreme poverty, but without focusing the shot on the causes of this poverty. To eradicate poverty, we could talk about more and better investment in strategic sectors such as industry and agriculture, reducing fiscal pressure to boost consumption, drastically reducing political spending, policies to combat unemployment and encourage recruitment. But guaranteeing a wage to everyone, regardless of what he does, promises to be an unsustainable burden for any state, promises to demotivate the incorporation of thousands of people into the labour market, promises to limit the economic and social growth capacity of countries, due to a lower involvement and commitment of their main assets that are people. It is also surprising the approach taken to the culture of work, posing it as an imposition of unwanted conditions for persons forced to accept them from their particular personal and professional circumstances. We have heard in this House that unconditional basic income facilitates the exercise of a freely elected occupation, an acceptable occupation, but they have not stopped to explain to us what an acceptable occupation is and for whom. They have obviated the subjective of such an appreciation. Moreover, they attribute the need for material goods and services to survive, the restriction of the freedom of persons to choose an occupation, forcing them to accept inadequate paid work. In view of this, the freedom of such persons to choose whether or not to work prevails; after all, they would have a wage without any conditions whatsoever. A clear invitation to the culture of zero effort. Having said that too, before concluding, do we really think that an exclusively public system is the best way to eradicate poverty? Is poverty an exclusive reality of liberal and capitalist countries? Philippe van Parijs, one of the great defenders of the RBI at European level, defined it as a way of entering communism into the capitalist system. That's all there is to it. Experience tells us that today a strong private initiative is needed and committed to the development and growth of your country, as is the need for a powerful public system, to ensure the provision of fundamental services to citizens. But he ends up saying, "It is not the end that justifies the means, but it is the means that allow the purposes to be justified." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u9	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u10	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good morning, chief of departments. Good morning, all of you who have proposed this initiative, and thank you for the work you've done. But we must speak in the name of my party, or in the name of the party, that we have voted against it. And then, I will explain some of the reasons why we voted against, we voted against this popular legislative initiative. As you know, the amendment of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act is under way. It's in the pre-project phase. We do have to say and give the government an earshake, because with the amendment of this law we are very late. It was a commitment already made by Mr Urkullu's government in the past legislature, which should have been on the table in the form of a bill the second quarter of 2018. And in the end, not a bill came, but a bill that could not be dealt with by the dissolution of Parliament as well. This year too, this legislature better said, we are also late, because the commitment of this Government was to have submitted a bill approved by the Governing Council in the second half of 2021. We must therefore clearly say that the Basque Government, Mr Urkullu's Government, has not done its duty once again. We also want to say that from the group I represent and in previous legislatures the People's Party - not only now the People's Party-Citizens - we have called for the modification of the protection system in Euskadi, with several objectives: remedying the many shortcomings detected and also linking economic benefits, GIR, supplementary housing provision and social emergency aid once and for all to employability. In order to do this, we must set up a Basque employment service which is actually in the service of employability, which is not yet in place. We must also say that we have a system of protection in Euskadi of the most advanced, that Euskadi is a solidarity society. That's right, a system that's clearly better. Another issue that certainly needs to be improved, because we believe that aid must be fair - that is, it must receive those who need help for as long as they need it - but the ultimate goal must be that those people can have an opportunity to join the labour market. And that is also why not in all the aspects in which we have to focus, how not, and in which we cannot look elsewhere is the abusive use that is made, which can be made of these aids. We also have the very reality of living minimum income and, therefore, we have a reality to help the people who need it the most. From the People's Party we believe in a model of opportunities for citizens, not a model in which citizens resign themselves to a lifetime grant. We do not agree, on the other hand, with the concept of basic income that is handled in this ILP. A benefit is set up in favour of any person residing in the VAC, regardless of their participation in the labour market and compatible... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... which is handled in this ILP. A benefit is set up in favour of any person resident in the VAC, regardless of their participation in the labour market and compatible with any salary or contributory benefit. This approach, for us, is not to help the people who need it the most; it is absolutely disincentive to the labour market. We have to help those who need it most for the time needed, but the goal has to be the incorporation of these people into the labour market, and not to receive an income for life. I mean, the perception of an income... of social assistance, of an economic benefit cannot be an end in itself. And, on the other hand, we believe that from the economic point of view it would have a high cost in life itself, in prices, and, therefore, it is not the economic model that the People's Party defends. Our economic model and our best model in the social sphere, because we consider it and believe it, and it is our conviction and it is what we have defended from all the institutions in which we have ruled - and we also have it accredited with facts - is that the best social policy is employment. And, for that, at a time and in a complicated context like the one we are living now, we propose that immediately and urgently - as our national president Nuñez Feijóo and the various candidates are doing also in the Basque People's Party, Carlos Iturgaiz - a tax cut, eliminate bureaucratic obstacles and reduce superfluous spending. And in conclusion, we are discussing today for an unconditional income. Our vote, as we have remarked, has been the contrary, we do not think it a good solution, and the end must be to succeed, and not always receive social support. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u11	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sakhez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u12	Thank you very much, President. Firstly, to welcome the representatives of the popular legislative initiative that has been presented today, and to acknowledge the great effort they have made to be able to present it in this House, regardless of whether we voted against this popular legislative initiative for the arguments I am going to put forward below. First, to follow the criteria reiterated in this Basque Parliament in previous legislatures, when before the proposed income-guarantee income reform law presented in the previous legislature - the legislative initiative formula envisaged together with the bills and the popular legislative initiative - the non-governmental groups considered that a reform of this line requires prior government appraisal reports, very specifically the legal, economic and equality reports. Emphasizing the incongruity of the groups who defended here today and who voted in favour - the Elkarrekin Podemos group and the EH Bildu group - who defended precisely this position before the bill, but who today voted in favour of the popular legislative initiative that does not have those reports. Secondly, in line with this criterion, and despite the fact that there was a majority of Government in this legislature that could have secured another solution, the latter has taken the decision to meet this criterion, which is being followed in the pre-processing of the reform of the income guarantee and inclusion system. And, in addition, important changes have been made to it. Thirdly, the fifth draft of the bill had already been submitted at the time of the fulfilment of the requirements of the People's Legislative Initiative; because not only many considerations of the debates within the past legislature had been incorporated into the bill, but also contributions that had been made both at the stage of public allegations and in domestic proceedings. Fourthly, that the content of the above-mentioned preliminary drafts fulfils the government programme presented in Parliament, which in Commitment 11 includes in Initiative 1, that of strengthening the income guarantee income model by contemplating within it the new reality of minimum living income. Initiative 2, to deepen its universalization, reaching certain segments of the population currently not sufficiently covered, particularly affecting disadvantaged families with their children. Initiative 3, to improve management by increasing agility and processing and the rigour and control of economic benefits and aid, being the difficulty of management one of the reasons argued for presenting the popular legislative initiative. And fourthly, to encourage economic activity and the social and labour inclusion of those who receive income-guarantee income who are employable. Another argument is that the modernization of the management and expansion of the coverage proposed by the Government - to begin the parliamentary process - is part of the defence of a model of success, yes, that of income guarantee income in which other models of guarantee income have been inspired in the rest of Spain, on verifiable facts regarding the attention to the most vulnerable groups, against a basic income that has only been put into practice in the pilot experiment, without real contrast and economic and poverty reduction impact, and which often require higher access requirements. The economic impact of the ILP presented is therefore not based on a rigorous report. Sixth, that the current Basque model of income guarantee income, which is to be improved by the preliminary draft, is very similar to the coverage that occurs in systems in other European countries. Seventhly, the current Basque model of income guarantee income has contributed to the long-term economic stability of the Basque population. It has proved to be effective in preventing severe poverty in Euskadi and has made it possible to maintain... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... in the long term the Basque population has proved to be effective in preventing severe poverty in the Basque Country, and has allowed similar and even higher welfare rates to be maintained in many countries in central and northern Europe. The preliminary draft includes, not only now under the Income Guarantee system, GIR, the Supplementary Housing Benefit and the ESAs, but also includes a minimum living income. And lastly, and ninthly. That the criterion is favourable to this ILP in terms, those that arise, does not even imply discrediting this formula of citizen participation in political life, since only the same matter has been presented other very different initiatives, but it has meant, without that it has meant a loss of the right of citizens to promote legislative initiatives. Nor does it close a legitimate debate on the application of conditional income to those who need it, a universal income to which those who may or may not have access. This Government believes that we are starting from a good system that can be improved and that is what it wants to propose to the Basque Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u13	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, ladies and gentlemen, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. In Dihoa, first of all, we have all the respect for thousands of people who have protected the confession of this enterprise from the group of eulogists of Euco. Really. We believe that we have the same end: to prevent our fellow-citizens from suffering social neglect. The means which we propose to do so differ, but I repeat, they have the same end. We only expect and ask for two things from you. The first is, that to deny this proposition of the law of the people, does not mean that we are opposed to this method of proposing laws; on the contrary, we esteem it. And the second, as we do not question your engagement against poverty and social neglect, let not you doubt ours. And now, I'll tell you about our reasons for voting the time I have left. One. The text which has been introduced in the original division, and thus maintains itself in the whole of the documents, shows itself repeatedly in relation to the human dignity of the European and European Union, the Autonomy of the State and Euskade, as if it had not been respected in the system of which we have no respect for human dignity. And we can't accept that. We are not perfect, no; but we are not ready to admit, and we do not dispute that human dignity in this country is complete, and that it is the first end of its institutions. And this may be opposed to our sensibility of society and its political representatives. It may be compared to the cold facts that usually appear on paper or power-point, or to all places where the universal expression of human rights is established or ought to be. Two. Our bet is to deepen the universalization of RGI in Basque. A model of success, yes. Reaching population segments currently not sufficiently covered. In short, we want to strengthen the social protection network so that no one who needs it will be left without a remedy. And for this, among other things, we must also be right to facilitate employment opportunities, a decent, stable, quality job. Hiru. In line with the above, the initiative of a draft law on the Basque system of income guarantee and inclusion, whose virtuality will be to strengthen our current model, is committed and very advanced for its referral to the Basque Parliament. Of recognized prestige, even international, also contemplating the new reality of minimum living income. And if anyone wants to question the model, they will also have the opportunity to do so in that process. Therefore, our position does not close either intellectually or politically the debate on universal basic income or on a hypothetical contrast of models. We are starting from a model of success that we are going to strengthen, and we would like to see when the law comes to Parliament that we can work with all groups in a spirit of agreement and improvement, because our bet is to continue to invest in the social cohesion of Euskadi. Four. We know the reality of employment, we deal with and worry about the same situations as the so-called poor worker. But from that to say that a job is also not a guarantee of a dignified life or a free existence, we seem to err in the analysis of reality. What is not a guarantee of a dignified life or a free existence is the lack of employment. Therefore, we understand that any income system that on its basis does not have the intention of insertion or employment inclusion as is the case with this system proposed to us is not the best of the systems that are available to our society. Five. Suffering an unconditional periodic monetary income to each resident member of society, regardless of their other sources of income, is progressive?, what considerations should this criterion extend to other areas and other resources of our welfare state, with the argumental defense that we will already settle progressive accounts through taxes? Six. It is not a fundamental income, as it is to-day, but as easy a change as is to be found in many. The arguments which are made to defend the evidence and propriety of its influence are not always too strong. For though many advantages which are attributed to him are constantly repeated as mantras, yet they are far from being proved or true. Just as experiments in other places, such as Finland or Alaska, prove. And seven to finish. Ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, from the reading of the legal proposition which has brought us here today, we may conclude that poverty and social neglect are easy to conclude. Of a political constitution, there may be an end, five articles, and regulations. Our party believes that there is no easy solution for complex problems. "There is not a magic recipe in the words of the President lately, nor a model for heaven." And the key is based on our model, a pattern that allows us to define our social development by means of the ability to leave no one behind us. This legal proposal... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... it is in our model, a pattern which allows us to define our social development by means of the ability to leave no one behind us. Besides the rights of the majority which this proposition represents, in a compact society which will respect and respect the rights of all. These are our opinions about the text that has been introduced to us, these are our principles, and these are our reasons to vote "no." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Second point on the subject list: "Go and collect the proposition as a parlamentary team, about the excessive flaccis that are being handled by the communal users of the gas-galda. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Oterre, representing and defending the EHG team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u16	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. All those who have proposed the legislative initiative to the people who are going out of their way, and who have brought it here. It's often said that I've heard him say something about the parties that support the government, isn't it? − is the policy to solve people's problems, which is often heard. And you hear about other things too, and it's that we often care about things, but you don't worry, but worry, don't you? Nos preocupamos y nos ocupamos. I think I'm in a position to question all this today, or to question it a little, don't I? I'll talk about the prices of energy, then there's another point that'll talk about it, and I'll focus on something specific in this chaos about the rates of energy. But it's true that it is necessary to say that this general and supportive increase of the rates of power or of fabulous subjects has ruined our whole life, and, in some measure, that almost all the people should not say that we're very much fucked up by −. I say all of us, or almost all of us, because in this context there are people who have been able to make great profits, haven't they? And there are if we see the balances for the last three months, there are some of myrgetic companies that have been sucking or fattening their balances, right? So we're not all fucked up. But it is true that the increase of energy prices has shot the index of consumption for instance and has come quite high. And, well, the ability to consume the population, the other that it has completely depressed him, and that, in some way, it is affecting the recovery, which is expected to be a complete or almost completely stopped climb. But especially, I believe that the most vulnerable persons are most damaged by the price of energy, which have become the object of so many public policies as the receiver of measures. But, in any case, I believe that, whatever precautions may be taken, my dearer poverty is increased, as we prefer, amongst the members and members of the community who are in want of myrgetic well-being. If we consider the European Union generally, or the criteria which European nations establish, are commonly two criteria, do we not? , to say who is poverty in the neurotic: one is that his house cannot be kept above 18 degrees in the winter, and that he cannot stay in the summer from 25 degrees, that is to say, an indicator, and it is more than 10% of the rent, that he should be obliged to spend more than 10% of the rent. That's the other one. But, klaro, with the high rates of energy in recent statistics, we'll soon see how the neuroptic poverty is diffusing, right? There is also one who says that the situation is consistent. There is also something about the bellic conflict in Ukraine that has something to do with it, − or especially with it. I would say that the data in hand is a matter of structure and the prices have been uphill for a long time. At least, we've had a year's trouble not to say − more or less, in the oil case, it's clear that it's already two years old, and it doesn't seem to be getting along soon. The measures have been taken, the measures of different governments have been taken, and the Government of Spain has long since begun to take measures, to lessen the state which was becoming, at the price of consumers, some or other, a state of importance. The first measures were taken in June 2021. Here, then, came the VAT, or the descent of IVA, the electricity, as well as the stars; and there were other changes in the targation, and there were other measures, which were mostly connected with electricity. Seeing the situation didn't work out, the prices went up, even though the VAT came down in September, the 14th of September, several other measures took place around the electricity taxage, which increased more or more to the downfall of the tax, but now that the gas was over, the gas price was over, some measures were taken. Okay? It was especially possible to attach the measures directed to consumers to the last rate or the tariff de úllimi recurso. And on the 14th of September some measures were taken, and then, on October 1st, several accounts were introduced. And then, on the 29th of March, in that other royal procession, which has been famous, there have been other measures taken, and here also the measures of fuel have been taken. So, in a way... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... in this decree of king, other measures have been taken, and here the measures of fuel have also been taken. So, somehow, all energy products or energy materials are linked somehow through the measures that the government has taken for the benefit of the community, isn't it? In a way, there's been an intervention. Was it bad measures? I wouldn't say that the measurements were bad, we protected them in the general of Madrid, but it's true they didn't get it to end with the scale of my rates, did we? And probably the most necessary measures have not been taken, and in the case of electricity, I think, already, that we all or almost all of us have a clear idea that the depletion of the gas price consists in a separation from this system of electricity. And so long as Europe does not permit it, whilst it does not take a certain degree of structure, it does not descend the prices which will be real and highly remarkable, does it not? In fact, electricity has continued to rise independently of the measures taken by the Government to reach a peak, a maximum of 143 euros on average in the household bill at home. And now it is true that through the measures and through a small relaxation in some of the prices of energy products has fallen a bit, but being the average electricity bill above 100 euros, it is very far from a year ago, March 2021, for example, that the average bill was at 62 euros. With which, well, the measures have worked very relatively, let's say. In any case, I want to focus on the prices of the gas, because that's what the initiative is, because I think we'll talk about the rate of energy again. And, as I said on September 14th, the government takes some measures to protect the most vulnerable consumers or the most vulnerable ones. And energy Management makes an resolution on the 26th of September and publishes new rates, doesn't it? And there in its time, the government in Spain, in its time, explains in a note the measure of the press of September 29th, and says that there is no such thing as "equies" as "equies," "5 millomen de hocogidos a la unlimimi recurso, y que, si no hubitera tomadodas, si no hubiera pustostos," "comites," "bis de la ejudio de la hudio jucio jucto jucque jucre est, poro fidee est, humeno de cui vie de cui de cui de cuido condo condores subi." A number of measures are taken, and it explains that the last resort rate, the two, the most common for people who have heating and hot water at home, was going to rise by 4,4 %. And it is said that the subsequent quarterly revisions, already with expectations of an international standard gas quote, will continue to absorb the debt generated by this new pricing. The expectations of normalisation I think were too optimistic, but well, anyway, on 1 October, the measures are put in place. Hence, at the price of the gas, a few promotions come, but it is still scarce, and people do not much notice it in their October, the fructs of November. The winter's rhymes come, and when they start to turn up more food in December, when we have people who have last rates, it's obvious they have a few promotions established by the government. A lot of users, because as the government said in the press, there are a million and a half users who have the last rate of resources, but there are 6 million other users who buy the gas in the free market, and they get a lot more bills. But here, the surprise comes, especially in December and January, a different type of user, a gas bill of 5%, not 30%, but 300% 400%, and in advance there were bills of 80 or 60 euros, which, in a month, cost up to 300, 500,000 francs a month. Sometimes there's a crime because every two months they get paid, and, clarro, they start to consume in December, and they start to realize that in February and so on, there are huge bills coming to them, don't they? Zer gertatzen ari yes? Gertatzen ari da azken baliabideko tarifak hiru tramotan Sailkatuak daudela, last resort rate one, two and three, with differences of consumption. This is established according to the maximum consumption of the boilers that each has, but it turns out that there are thousands and thousands and thousands of users who have the heating connected to Community boilers that exceed in the annual consumption that boiler of 50,000 kilowatts hour that marks the stretch, or the last stretch, or the cut of those rates that can be accommodated at the last resort rate, regulated, unlimited by the Government. In addition to this, a new type of pricing had been established. Fixed pricing also affects all these users greatly. Klaro, urtarriletik otsailetik aurrera, fakturak ikusita, herritar piala bat pauetzen dira orokorrean, eta paucity energyitikoaren eraginak ikusten hasten gara exeetan eta jendea hotza passatzen eta abar hasten da. We've got a glue around the factions, because we've begun to detect this subject since January, but we're much more in February. And, well, people, our millionaires, the people who work at the Basque Country, began to spread out their own cases. And a few examples, capital de Euskadi número uno, Gasteno... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ...beraien kasuak azaleratzen hasi ziren, ezta? Eta adibide gutxi batzuk. Euskadi capital, number one, Gasteizen kale bat, invoice of 620 euros for two months; street de la Iliada, 17, invoice of 387 euros for one month, or street Dolores Ibarruri in January of this year with an invoice of 405 euros to one month. And we begin to see that it is not only a question of Gasteiz, that in Gasteiz it is a particularly sensitive question because there are 7,500 families, with which about 20,000 users, who are suffering this situation. And but this, the problem goes beyond Gasteiz, obviously. And we find, for example, in Barakaldo, a message from the Administration of the Beurko Berria residential complex in which it is made known to all users of boilers that the fixed term increases from 1,175 euros per year to 67,768 euros per year and that the raw material has risen from 0.06 kilowatt hours to 0.15 kilowatt hours, which seems to be a smaller difference, but in reality it is an increase of 250 %. With this we are in a situation in which we have tens of thousands of affected people and families who we believe need to be resolved. Horregatik diot: Ez Bakarrik kezkatu, kezkatu denok kezkatu race, ore solution eman behar zio. And of course we put two points in our proposal today, and we say: One must be made to regulate the changes of Madrid in order to enable these consumers to access the last rate of their resources. The Government had a good choice, I say, in Spain, when we told RCkin to repair this situation in the reign of the 29th of March, that the contributions which we presented to Madrid might be a clabe. The Madrid government's done it so far. But it seems to be true that there is a sense of sensibility and that we are now negotiating to see if we can make such a change of prayer. But we believe that no government that is pre-opuping and occupying, has only to make a request to another administration, that he must make a watch here, that he must make a social ransom. This is where it was announced that in a monographicographic... a social ransom was going to take place... 15 million euros. Well, at the second point, we propose that this situation may be opened by tens of thousands of people who are suffering...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u17	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u18	Yeah. I'm done. Well. to open a line, a line of help, to all persons and users who have suffered this state according to the rent criteria. You don't seem to admit it, and I don't understand it at all. Now I hope your position with explanation gets a little clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs. Larre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u20	Good morning. Thank you, President. The issue is important, interesting and urgent for families suffering from the lack of the last resort rate because they are not the holders of the gas contract. And that's the problem. It has to be made clear that... You have to tell someone that they are not companies; listen, they are not going to take out or profit from getting a product from the use of gas; that all they do is warm up; that here the winters are very hard. And that we share with the majority of groups in this Parliament, but with... yes, with the majority, let's go, I don't think any of this fails, the clear injustice that is being done to consumers who cannot afford the last resort rate, as Mr Otero has said. In the GNP it was also requested and we all asked that it be modified... and that it is necessary to amend the Hydrocarbons Act in article 93 so that communities of neighbours with Community boilers can benefit from this tariff, because in the end it is here the crux of the issue, and it is that as they are not holders of a contract to supply gas to their homes... In the end, one thing must also be said, and not all Community boilers have meters in their own homes; it is therefore very difficult to discriminate what the consumption limit these homes are going to have in order to be able to benefit also from this last resort tariff or, even if they had a contract, they could benefit from this social bond of gas consumption. But they are in clear discrimination against other users who have to warm their home. At one point it was seen that Community boilers could favour or be managed much better and could have advantages for consumers, but at a time of energy crisis as we now have, in which prices have increased in a disorbited way... And that families are not having any luxury when they are warmed up their homes in northern Spain, because also here it is cold, there is warm up in winter, in Álava you know very well. The point is that we all have to agree, we have to say that we have to change section 93 of the Hydrocarbons Act so that vulnerable users, who will ultimately have energy poverty, can be untied. What is it that with this topic what is being created new families as energy poverty, because with the increase in the value of gas what they do is not be able to heat their homes. In fact, when the invoices of 600 euros and more have come to them, because the families had not foreseen this so fulminant increase in the price of gas, even energy, that we will already talk about after the value of the price of the cost of energy for the families, because it turns out that what we need are drastic measures. And right now, what Basque society needs is a compensatory bonus to make them, at least, move aside perhaps to this... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] Drastic. And, at the moment, what Basque society needs is a compensatory bonus to make it, at least, to move away, perhaps, from this serious energy crisis that they are suffering and that we are causing the most vulnerable families to suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u22	Madam President, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. The truth, Mr Otero, is that you and I always run in the opposite direction: when I come to the general, you focus on the concrete; today that I came to the concrete, you have given us a general framework. However, I will insist on focusing and focusing on the specific issue, although it is true that some things have already been put forward by you. Today we bring an initiative that is or I thought was very concrete and focused on a specific group. I do not know, I imagine that you have also, in some way, intended to make a prologue that serves you for the intervention of the next point. Well, it is true that in his initiative, on which we are debating here today, on this second point, he literally says that, for months, energy prices and costs have been rising constantly. It's evidence. What the initiative does not say, but you have explained it today, is the reason why energy prices are rising. I think we will all agree that below, the contextual substratum of this rise has to do with the strong geopolitical tensions that we are experiencing at international level and whose expansion has also affected and has also impacted the Spanish economy and the Basque economy in some way. I also agree with you that although the invasion of Ukraine by dictator Putin is an accelerator, of course, it is not the only factor and we were already suffering from it. And it only takes a visit to the hemeroteca to see that, since August, this problem is a problem that worries and it is a problem that occupies. It is also the responsibility of the Government of Spain, which, since that time, since the summer of last year, has been deploying a great deal of policy. It's funny to me, because I was pointing out here "I'm not going to say them all." You've said a lot, so you've taken away some of my work. But it is true that it has been deploying a great deal of policy, with the intention of alleviating that impact on the economy and, above all, to protect small and medium-sized consumers. At an almost weekly rate, you have been publishing different measures in the State's Official Gazette; some, which you have already listed, I think they are well known to all of you, so I am not going to affect that again. I will, of course, focus on one of those measures, which is the one that has to do with the revision of the criteria for access to the last resort tariff. You've also advanced a little how you calculate this rate, haven't you? Since 2009, we have had a criterion, a mathematical formula - for me complex, but also this parliamentarian recognizes its mathematical limitations - that was applied quarterly, provided that the price of gas varied upwards or downwards more than 2%. And, with its lights and shadows, we have been applying this criterion from 2012, forgiveness from 2009 to 2021. It is true that what served for a market with a moderate fluctuation in the gas price, in the current context, where the increase in the gas price has been triggered, has been triggered alarmingly and increasing more than 130 %, the application of that formula, which was valid in 2009 or which was valid in a normal context, would have meant that for all users of the last resort tariff, for all users, an increase in their invoices the gas price of 34,91 %, which you have also given it. I therefore believe that it is also important to recognise the reason for this revision of the criterion of access to the last resort tariff. And it is to prevent thousands and thousands of Basque families from seeing their gas bill increase by more than 35%. It is also true, as you say in your initiative and as you have recalled here, I literally read: "users and users of some community boilers that serve several neighborhoods have not been able to enter." Indeed, it is also a reality that I am not going to deny, but I believe that it cannot be demonised a measure that has served to solve the problem that could impact... We agree on that. But one cannot demonize a measure that had a great deal to say and was trying to solve the problem that could be applied in gas bills to thousands and thousands of Basque families, because a particular collective and in a particular situation could not enter into that calculation. Now, that said, let us focus on that collective to which you have referred and which, obviously, cannot be left out of this debate, because it is really the backbone of it. And Mr Otero, you are well aware of the firm social commitment of the Government of Spain. You have acknowledged this in some way by listing much of the measures you have been taking in recent months. No government, no one, in all the contemporary history of Spain and Euskadi, has left a social footprint as deep as that left by the government of Pedro Sánchez. What the government of Rodríguez Zapatero was for the progress of civil rights is being done by the government of Pedro Sánchez in the fight against climate change and climate justice. And you know it. And he knows very well that the Government is working with different groups in the Congress of Deputies - his own too - to try to make the criterion of access to the last resort tariff more flexible. And you know it perfectly well, Mr. Otero. That is why your group recently supported an initiative at the General Councils in Álava, the first of which was a model copy of the first point that we tabled today in our amendment by the Basque Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, in which we urge the Government of Spain to study the revision of the rules governing the use of the last resort tariff. And, frankly, I tell you, Mr Otero, you would not understand that your group here today would not vote in favour of that first point. And you know it perfectly well, because above all you know that the Socialist Group in the Congress of Deputies and the Government is responsive to your request, to that request, and that it is working on it, and you know it. But I cannot finish this intervention without insisting again on the need to push, with all the forces possible, an energy transition that allows us to unlink to the fossil energies that have done so much damage and are doing to our planet. That's why the most important part of our efforts have to... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...allow us to unlink to the fossil energies that have done so much damage and are doing to our planet. That is why the most important part of our efforts must be directed towards the promotion of energy saving and efficiency policies. As his initiative also says, further work and investment are needed to achieve more efficient and cost-effective heating systems. He knows that much of the boilers to which we are referring are going to have to be modified before next year, before 2023; they have to adapt to a new reality, they also have to... There's the challenge of electrification, heat pumps, etc., etc. All those issues that we have been discussing to a great extent also in the decarbonization paper that we have so enthusiastically attended by representatives of almost all the parliamentary groups. So I'm done. Let us not demonize a measure that we believe has served to safeguard the economy of thousands and thousands of Basque families. And if there are groups that are being affected, let's look at how, in a fair way and prioritizing the most vulnerable, we can reverse that situation. But let us not forget what our horizon must be, where we must focus all our efforts. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners, chief physician, all good days. As has been said, in the past few months, not only the electricity bill, but the gas has increased, especially for the community of neighbors with communal boilers. In recent months also, through a number of royal decrees, the Government of Spain has approved a number of packages of measures to reduce the electricity and gas bill of families. Although many times the situation itself has exceeded the forecasts of these royal decrees law. But these measures cannot benefit the communities of neighbours and neighbours, because the current legislation provides that, as a general rule, they can only benefit from that last resort rate, which you have mentioned, consumers connected to pressure networks of less than or equal to 4 bars and consumption of less than 50,000 kilowatts per hour per year. The communities of owners and owners with centralized gas boilers, however, having a consumption equal to or greater than 50,000 kilowatts/hour per year, can only contract the supply of gas in the free market, and not in the regulated market. This regulation and situation, as prices have been raised in the free market, and as the price of the gas has been tripled, leaves at a disadvantage people who have a collective facility, such as have toiletts on the gas. In fact, they apply the tariff reserved for the use of manufactures, although the last receiver of this service is the user of a house. And the owner has recently forced them to accept new rates, to reduce the hours to start, and sometimes to lower the temperature. In this state we are agreed to examine the revision of the rules which regulate the use of the tariff in the last resort of natural gas. It's the purpose of taxing the yearly gas consumption of every apartment for the community of neighborhoods with less access than the maximum consumption in the last resource tarifes. It seems logical that all individual consumers should have the same rights. We are, then, face to face with the injustice of comparison, but with a subject of many extremes. Although historically the gas of the community has been cheaper, not only because the price of the free market gas was lower, but, as you have stated in your explanation, Mr. Otero, who has allowed every citizen to profit by the amount of money from the carbon division, as well as by the consumption of the community, as by the maintenance of all the public weighters. Nevertheless, this expedient has shown that there is no efficacy in the loss of energy, because it does not consider the needs and demands of each neighbour. We also agree that the administrations, each from their own powers, will continue to support and bet on actions to improve energy efficiency and savings in the Basque Autonomous Community. Even with existing tools, vulnerability can be addressed as a result of the current situation. Not only that, but we must, as has already been said, move towards a new model, with a greater volume of renewable energies as well as promoting self-consumption and distributed generation. It is also urgent to install individual smart meters per dwelling, to encourage more active participation of consumers and to use the information to save their consumption; basically, so that each person not only pays for their consumption in buildings with central heating system rather than on the basis of the participation coefficient or other parameters, but also to promote responsible consumption and savings. What we do not agree with is that the Basque Government has to issue a compensatory bonus, as this would also be an aggravation to those having individual boilers who have also seen their bill altered at prices much higher than usual, or with regard to any other market disturbance that may occur in the future as a result of the situation we are experiencing from the invasion of Ukraine or by Russia or for any other reason. Therefore, in our view, it is logical in this regard that the Spanish Government should implement emergency measures to alleviate this type of situation in a short period of time, as well as structural measures that will improve both the bill and the energy system. What's the point of asking the Spanish Government to correct a mistake that we think we're doing if we're asking you to ask me to correct that mistake later on? With what force we will demand a problem to solve... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... to correct this error itself. With what force will we demand a problem to solve it, even if we have it fixed with a patch? In our opinion, it's not a legal proposal... In your not lawful proposal, the first point leaves the second blank, completely abolishes it. And that way of acting, will we use it just for this case? For everyone else? Where's the border of this? Isn't it more logical to take care of each one's own rights, the current system? In our view, and this has been reflected in the agreements that we have reached with you at the City Councils and General Councils, what is important is to fix the fundamental problem, the cause of the problem. Not that the Basque Government has to patch up problems that require solutions that go beyond the mere subsidy. And I am not saying that it cannot be done at a certain time, but this cannot be turned into the modus operandi of a government that has to look far and far. And what this government must face, the other, too, logically: it is the energy transition that we have ahead of us, in a structural way. And there are, for example, all the aids that the Basque Energy Agency is currently putting at the service of citizens to move to another scenario, also in what has to do with electrification of heating as a tool for improving energy efficiency. Because in any case, the subject is not as simple as it seems. And that is why we ask MITECO in our amendment to study it and to look for solutions - certainly temporary - to this situation. As if these communities were to accept a regulated tariff without individualized control, there could also be other problems: that they benefit companies that do not need such protection, only because they belong to the community of neighbours; that leads to an increase in gas demand, which is precisely contrary to security of supply policies at the moment; as well as environmental problems, because of the increase in gas combustion emissions in boilers; that hinders the process of electrification of heating, which I have already mentioned and to which we must aspire in the medium term. In any case, the present crisis has shown that we must hasten to exclude fossil fuels. The climate crisis must increase the crisis of extreme dependence. The transition to the retrials needs to be accelerated. This is why we must be cautious in the measures proposed at such a time. We must put in place all the necessary tools at our disposal in order to increase energy efficiency, savings, individualised consumption, and responsible. Increase the generation and consumption of renewable energy, and deepen the Basque energy research strategy, as key levers for a just energy transition. Similarly, preventive measures must continue to be developed in order to reduce energy vulnerability, thus avoiding situations of energy poverty. That is why we must be very careful about the temporary measures that are being put in place at this time, and they are not going to be counterproductive to our objectives. Therefore, because of consistency and responsibility, and because we continue to defend ourselves in the proper place, we will vote our full correction, which accords with what we and you and the council have agreed in the councils and the Supreme Councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u25	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u26	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. While six energy oligopoly companies listed in IBEX 35 are paying €10 billion in profits in 2021, more and more citizens are unable to put the heat in the face of the unorthodox rise in light and energy prices. And I believe that, as in other cases, it is our duty to reduce this cost, and to implement energy policies aimed at promoting the well-being of citizens. The high cost of gas in Community boilers is one of the problems, but it is not the only one. The fundamental problem, as we all know, lies in an energy market made for, for, and an oligopoly of energy companies, which has done with the control of the generation and marketing of energy, and with the control of energy... it has been done with the control of the generation and marketing of energy and with the control of the fixing of prices. This oligopoly creates rules, sets prices, and as manna falls from the sky into the desert, it gets record profits year after year. The initiative presented today by Bildu, together with the amendments by the groups supporting the Government, focuses on the problem of Community gas boilers. And this shows us that if the pandemic has brought to light the weaknesses of the health system, the energy crisis that we are currently experiencing, it is demonstrating the weakness of our energy system. It is truly unfair that the neighbouring boilers cannot be accommodated at the last resort rate. At present, access, as mentioned above, to this tariff is only allowed for those consumptions of less than 50,000 kilowatts per year. And while each neighbor individually consumes much less, he must benefit from free market rates, which are much more expensive. Because of the mere fact of sharing boilers, they are forced to pay twice as much of those who have individual boilers. We therefore believe that this regulation should be reviewed so that Community boilers can access the last resort tariff. First of all, because it's unfair that... with individual boilers, because if you can benefit from the rates... These can benefit from regulated tariffs, and consumption among these homes is similar. Secondly, because Community boilers are being compared with gas-intensive companies, which is ultimately causing great harm to people who are subject to Community boilers - as the same rate reserved for industrial use applies to them, even though the end-user of this service is the user of the house. In the amendment to all the groups that support the Government, it is urged that... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... even though the final recipient of this service is the user or user of the house. The amendment to all groups supporting the Government calls for action to improve energy efficiency. Actions that are basically being supported by the EVE for energy rehabilitation and self-consumption. But, from our point of view, we believe that they are also insufficient. We have already explained this when our group proposed the need to create a public energy company to lower the price of light and to accelerate energy rehabilitation. On that occasion, we insisted on the need for a model change. We must move towards a more ambitious policy and coordinate with the municipalities, which plan and implement projects for the comprehensive and massive rehabilitation of housing. The housing stock of the Autonomous Community is very old and is with obvious technical deficiencies. To continue to support the current measures of the EVE, not only does it seem to us that it is... is not the most appropriate in the climate emergency scenario, because we continue to support consumption, the consumption of fossil fuels, and we are not supporting the climate emergency. In fact, we are concerned that within 20 or 30 years aid will continue to be provided to improve energy efficiency, when today the vast majority of the new construction houses in Euskadi are being built with community gas boilers. And we ask ourselves: do you think it makes sense that we continue to support and support rehabilitation, while we continue to build inefficient housing with gas boilers? Recently, this Parliament approved in the Housing Master Plan that, among other motions for resolutions, it approved a respect that the new houses in Euskadi would be 100% electrified and without gas or other CO2 emissions fuels, and with maximum efficiency standards, such as passive house standards, with which the buildings are built. with which almost zero energy consumption housing would be built. However, the new housing promotions are not being built with these standards and with gas boilers, so the Basque Government today continues to sow the seeds of future housing problems, and they remain subject to gas prices and geopolitical wars. Today we have the technology so that the houses will be electrified and with photovoltaic panels can supply necessary energy without relying on fossil fuels or third countries or oligopolies. From Elkarrekin We have urged again and again that in Euskadi the houses be 100% electrified and stop using gas boilers, both communal and individual. Housing can be completely independent of the energy of any multinational, and they are not allowing it. (?) It may seem very good that in the short term we have given a solution to reduce the price of gas for Community boilers, but it is necessary not to delay the electrification and self-consumption of housing in Euskadi any longer, so that in the medium term gas boilers are not needed, nor do we continue to pay energy bills to multinationals. Therefore, we will support the instance a (?) so that the Community boilers can access the regulated market, but we believe that it is necessary for the Basque Government to act so that the Euskadi housing stock no longer depends on gas, and to be energy sovereign.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Passing over to the answer shift, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u28	Okay, a preliminary question, almost for information. I don't know whether or not they're taking it into account or not giving them enough importance. Royal Decree 736/2020 provides for the compulsory use of individual meters by Community gas boilers. And for climate zone D, which corresponds, let's say, to the Mediterranean side, let's say, almost every Álava, which is where the question of Community boilers is concentrated, although not only, it is assumed that by 1 October 2022 it should be, it should be individualised, and in fact it is, most of the consumption is individualised, with which, I do not think, that is the biggest problem on this issue. Alonso jauna, "ez demonizatezeko" are duezu neuroririk. Nik kontrakoa, kontrakoa. Ez dut demonizatu, aldrebes, kasu gehienetan goraipatu egin ditut. But, of course, you say: "No, no, let's not get carried away, let's not get confused by the good measures that this government has with the problem of a particular group", as if it were a minor thing. Be careful, first, because the concrete collective is a very large collective, as I say, only in Gasteiz, I do not have the data for the whole community, because only in Gasteiz are 7,500 families, which is nothing less. But, I go further when I talk about the responsibilities of this government, because most of these people who are connected to the community boilers and are having these rates, this so impressive price rise, are official protective housing; that is, they are people of low resources or low means, as you want to call it. And many of them are not even owned, many are rented; that is, the Basque Government pushed community boilers into official and rental housing. So now the Basque Government cannot speak as if this were only a matter in Madrid, when this has been driven from here. I insist, I believe, that the question of Community boilers has been pushed forward with good judgment, because once the problem of individual meters has been solved, it is clear that this has to help, right?, it is a question of efficiency and it has to help. With what I do not agree with and which has seemed to me to be an exercise in cynicism, in particular, is that when you told me that you would not understand that I would vote against your first point. Well, this is very simple. And how then do you understand that you are going to vote against my first point. Of course, your comment is completely cynical. We are saying that in Madrid this is regulated. You agree, you are going to vote against, because yes, you are going to vote against, you are going to vote against. We are going to abstain, it is not that we are going to vote against, but it is a political abstention, not because we are against what you say at your point, but because for us today one of the central issues was that the Basque Government set up a line of aid which you are not willing to do in a scar. Eta zuk hitz egin duzu, Alonso jauna, that this has to be done fairly. And I believe that it is in complete justice here that a line of aid is established. And, Mr. Grabaris, you said something very contradictory. You said the questions that are connected to the communal... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... gauza bat bear, isugari kontreesankorra esan duzu. Esan duzu pedera komunitarioetari lotuta daviden kontsumitzaileak izan dutela a comparative aggravation, a comparative aggravation in the rise of prices. And the results are visible, because the 400 euros bills have only reached these types of consumers. But then he says, "Yes, but if we get involved..." of course, one thing is to ask Madrid to change the regulation – with which we all agree at this point, but they say, "Yes, but it is, of course, that the Basque Government if it starts to give aid to some and others not, because there we would be with a comparative aggravation". Of course, where there has been a comparative aggravation, the Basque Government enters from social policy, from the fight against poverty, it goes to neutralize this comparative aggravation. Don't call it a comparative aggravation to help the most disadvantaged in this situation. Don't you? I just don't get it. And you say: "Every one has his rights." And the rule or rule belongs to Madrid, there's no doubt about it. But social politics? A struggle against poverty? To guarantee your welfare? Isn't it fun? And then you say: "No, no, let's not get into friends." How can we not get in on help? As soon as you've repulsed our initiative, you've announced that you're equal to the government, a million dollars' support line for these users. A government of yours may then be made to see the right one, and I say to you: and if the assistance of a Gaste be reasonable, it is reasonable. Why isn't it reasonable for you to say good-byenin? Barakaldon? anywhere else? Why isn't it fun? If you know this situation is general. I think that in the end there is another problem, and that the Basque Country has come from the political initiative of the Union, because the Basque Country has been closer to its population than to its radar, and that the Basque People have to return this campaign. You've been following him. At first you didn't even notice our first townships and began to vote against them. Then alternatives. Later on, yes. Then, at last, you all agree, and the Euclusus, the Jest Party of the Euccany, has already introduced another legal initiative in order to carry it on, knowing that we have been here for months. Well, I think that's very sad. That's why I said at first...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u29	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u30	Is that why at first I used to say that you're precocious and busy here in politics? Well, it's okay, it's okay. This was the political initiative of meeting the Basque Country, so don't push it back today and say, in a week or two: "Well, the government will put a line of help for these damages," as you will finally do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso. Ow! Yes, I'm sorry, Mrs. Larre, representing the popular-Ciudados.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u32	It is that, listening to them, it gives me the feeling that this does not go from the fight against climate change, this goes also we support the fight against climate change, decarbonisation..., but this goes from the families, from the final consumers of the Community boilers who cannot benefit from a regulated tariff, and above all from the last resort tariff. I think there's no debate here, and, besides, I see that... That is to say, there is no debate because you have said, Mr Alonso said, that it is true that we had to change, that Madrid had to change the Hydrocarbons Act, Article 93, so that these Community boilers could benefit from the last resort rate, so that families in need could accept the last resort rate. But it is also true, Mr Otero, that many of these Community boilers do not have those accountants, which have to comply with it, but they do not have it at the moment. It is a difficulty that will be found on the way to this compensatory cake that you request, which we share, because it is true that many more families have been created with difficulties to heat their homes with energy poverty due to the increase in the gas bill that they have suffered and that they have suffered the rest of families. And just as the social bonus has been increased from 60 to 70 %, as these families who do not have access to a regulated rate or to... They do not have access to the regulated market, as it turns out they have an aggravation compared to the rest. When we do things, we don't because other people are going to get rich. Mr Grajales said that if these Community boilers are accepted globally that I do not know, no one has said that a compensatory bonus should be made globally, because they can increase consumption. Man, what happens if they're going to fry the pill in their homes, because they're going to get a bonus to pay those big bills that the community boilers have had? I don't know. It's just that in the end, you're talking to families who have difficulties, those who don't, because they'll probably pay their bills well. That the problem is that there will be families who are forced to pay those bills and have to take out food or other things to pay those bills, because here we all have to pay the bills. It was only this clarification that I wanted to make, it is simply a defense of what they had brought at the moment, that is that there is a difficulty that families are suffering because they have to pay indecent bills, because because of how the gas has risen in the international weaver, and the problem that we have had with hydrocarbons for two years, because it is about providing solutions, but not solutions... Not always looking at the one who's going to hurt, but looking at who we have to help. This is it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u34	Thank you, ma'am. I had no intention of participating in the reply, but this last intervention has almost forced me to have to clarify a couple of concepts. Mr Otero, quickly, we are not going to discuss something that we have already discussed so many times. That it is a concrete collective does not mean that it is a small collective, I have not said that, I have said that it is a concrete collective and that it is possibly proportionally smaller than the collective to which the problem has been solved the change of criteria in access to the last resort tariff. And on the other hand, in fact, you say that many of these homes are from VPO, I totally agree with you. Therefore, in my intervention I have told you that what must be prioritized first is the most vulnerable, any action taken must start with the most vulnerable, because not all the houses that use these types of boilers are VPO. And you know that there are also other income bands that also use these kinds of boilers, and it would also seem fair to me that any measure... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... but more vulnerable, because not all homes that use this type of boiler are VPO. And you know that there are also other income bands that also use this type of boilers, and it would also seem fair to me that any measure did not take that criterion into account. Mrs Larrea, this is about climate change. I do not know if at this point in the film it has been realized, but it is all about climate change, everything about climate change, and indeed, it will be necessary to help some collectives who, at this particular moment, because of a legislative question, have been able to stay out, but the really important thing, the really important thing and what we have to worry about here and take care of, is the need to finish and decarbonize our economy and to get an electrification, to facilitate access to heat pumps and all these other issues that really have to worry us. It will not be that now for trying to help a collective, for trying to help another collective, let us forget which path is at the bottom. This is about climate change, and everything for today, everything, or much of the essence of the policies that are being debated in this Parliament, has to do with climate change. Don't hesitate, Mrs. Larrea. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. Grivorouss, Eubertarian patriots, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u36	Yes, thank you again, Mrs. President. I shouldn't have used this shift either, but I'll try to answer Mr. Otero briefly, and I'll try to answer the doctors who showed it to me. I have the feeling, Mr. Otero, you doubt what I say, I explain myself very badly, or that you do a little bit of txerripikin, which is fashionable now, of what I say, right?, you cut it off and say: "it is that I have not understood, you will have to explain it to me", because I explain it again. When I spoke of comparative aggravation, indeed, I think there is, because people who have boilers or boilers attached to the Community boiler are obviously victims of injustice, they do not have the same rights as those who do not. But you know as well as I do that those who do not have a Community boiler are also suffering greatly from the rise in gas prices, and there are people who do not have the capacity to enter the last resort tariff either. And I have added, moreover, and I have added, moreover, I have said to him: "or any other problems that may arise from the situation of the invasion of Ukraine, or from any other subject." The Government, I think at least, must think things through a certain distance, with a certain strategic capacity. And what it can't is at the dawn of situations at every moment, go taking out the checkbook and ta, ta, go handing out. I don't know how many of these over the course of this year and the situation we are in. In any case, and from that point on the Txerripikin, I too have talked about other issues. I have said that the Government will have to take all measures at its disposal to avoid problems. And you already know what those measures are, among other things, because although it does not look like it today, we have a budgetary agreement, and you have improved some of those measures. All these measures are (?), these measures have not fallen. Not today (?It does not mean that there are no measures now, it does not mean that there are no measures that can be implemented at all levels, from the point of view of social action, or even, as I said before, from the point of view of the environment, of improving savings, technological changes, etc., etc. In any case, all the tools, I insist. In any case, I have the feeling too, and I'm going with a sour feeling of this point, because I think that in the background we almost all agree, except on that. I don't know if (?There is also a question of jealousy, of political strategy. "We had the radar," listen, great, yeah, you've had the perfect radar. You know what the problem I have, or the feeling I have, that you take out the radar, you identify the problem, you go through the city halls by putting..., you see that you've had the radar running. Then they go to General Councils, they go up the radar thermometer, they go up. And it turns out we've reached agreements on most of those. But when the thermometer has to go where it has to go, which is to Madrid, where we really have to negotiate, where we have to put a solution to this issue, then the thermometer drops down to below. Down, down, because we put it into a platform with a lot of other things, with Republican Left, well, it's important, but not too much, and then, we bring it here, because then yes, then we're going to buzz this government and the PNV, which is the one that doesn't put the solutions. You don't do what you have to do, where you have to do it, and you come here to give the feeling that something else is happening, and this has nothing to do with boilers, this has to do with political strategy. So, if the government doesn't give the size, the City Hall of Gasteiz yes, I'll return the question: what the municipalities of the PNV do from now on, to see if they are able to do with the radar of Bildu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Together, Podemus-Nozzle mustn't participate... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u38	After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u39	So it's not accepted. And what Maria's vote was. We'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Chapanos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u40	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the eucalypologists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; abstain, 28; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u41	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos-Nodemus, as a parlamentary group of parliamentary factions, concerning the systems of the social prediction ASOS. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, representing the Animal Team, has the word to present and defend itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Today we come to talk about the public pension system, and also about a trunk element of the public pension system, well, rather an element that comes, in some way, to damage what is the public pension system's stake in supplementary social welfare systems. And I'm going to make a small, small, minimal, historical tour. I will not bore you in this regard, not so much with regard to the advancement of complementary systems, but with regard to the fact that since the 1980s, if not earlier, what has to do with a long bet against the policies of the welfare state has been a constant of different schools of thought. And also, as a result of the development of these schools of thought, the translation and materialization in certain policies of the public administrations have come to tertiate the economy we live in, and in many situations, in many cases also to promote the progressive financialization of the economy in many aspects of public management. To the point, even, that certain natural monopolies have gone from being managed in the general interest - and in some cases from public ownership - to being managed by the private initiative to fatten its performance accounts. And in this case, what has to do with the progressive financing of the private sector of certain aspects which should be subject to the general interest, as one of them in recent decades (...) has to do with the pension system. That is, for decades one of the elements that should be truncal, and that is truncal because it is also defined in the Spanish Constitution, one of the elements that should be truncal of what we define as a state of well-being has been increasingly kidnapped by certain private sectors, with the acceptance, even at certain times, of the collaboration of the governments. And here we would have to make a special mention of the years... I am not going to focus much here, but in the glorious years on this issue of the People's Party - with an absolute majority - the reforms promoted in 2013 in relation to the public pension system, the progressive cuts in everything that involved the public pension system and the opening up to the private sector in terms of the management of the public pension sector, along with many other public aspects of the state and the administration that were laminated and also subject to private initiative and private interest. Good. From our parliamentary group today we are bringing an initiative which is essentially aimed at making a pronouncement by this House on its commitment to strengthening the public pension system. It is true that the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party basically comes to say this, and we agree with that. In fact, an agreement was reached in this House a few years ago. Beyond that, in our original initiative, obviously, we have incorporated certain... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... We agree; in fact, an agreement was reached in this House a few years ago. Beyond that, in our original initiative - of course - we have incorporated certain added elements which we also consider important to put on the table today. We believe that we cannot escape - or this House cannot escape - from a debate that is also taking place in the Congress of Deputies at this time, which has to do with the draft regulation for the boost of Mr Escrivá's employment pension schemes, which, let us say, had the parabion of the Council of Ministers, but now, as part of the process in the Congress of Deputies, he is having quite a reply to the partial amendments tabled by different parliamentary groups, and he is also receiving quite a reply from social actors. Our group in the Congress of Deputies has tabled amendments outside the Socialist Party, in this case because there are certain elements that are not shared with the initiative. And just as our spokesman at the Congress of Deputies, Isa Franco, said, we do not like the name of the Public Promotion Pension Fund, because that name does not respond to reality because it is not the State that promotes pension plans. One promoter is to make contributions, and the state is not going to put – nor should it put – a single euro for these pension schemes. Every euro of social security, every public euro will be in the public pension plans, in the first pillar. In this regard, article 41 of the Constitution, which states that assistance and supplementary benefits must be free, must be complied with. Yes, I imagine that some political formations will claim this issue. Free yes, but certainly not promoted from the public sector, and in some cases even financed from the public sector. Our spokesman also said in the Congress of Deputies that he does not agree with what has to do with tax exemptions to supplementary pension capitalization formulas. Here, in Euskadi, we have been experimenting for several decades with the supplementary pension system, and in this sense we can warn from here of certain risks that may imply what has to do with complementary systems of capitalization of these characteristics. It is true that there is a difference between complementary systems, some agreed with union representation, and others, that the only thing they pursue is individualized savings and the rescue of capital once you reach retirement age. And we believe that these formulas, which are also accompanied - I say - by public impulse, do not really face the fundamental problem of the public pension system. And it is that, if we go to the average pension of Euskadi - and it is true that it is about 1,290 euros - but if we go to what has to do not with the average pension but with the dispersion of the pension, that is, if we go, for example, to the average pension of a widow, then the average would be around 900 euros, and if we go to the minimum pension, this would be around 600 euros. And, therefore, really, what should be done by both the State and the Basque Government is not so much to promote complementary systems, but, if necessary, to address this situation, which is to strengthen pensions and minimum contributions, which is really where the lack of sustainability of the system is given. The financial industry - and I suppose some groups will also pose this as a discursive element, the financial industry - has been posing for decades that the public pension system is unsustainable, and certainly not from the perspective that I now put - since the strengthening of those who charge less - but, basically, as the inability to sustain the system in financial terms. And from there they justify the need to supplement these pensions with other instruments. We and we disagree with this premise. We believe that the real substance of the issue when it comes to the impulse of systems complementary to public pension really what we are talking about is a very greedy business for the financial industry, a mass of savings, which is what they are pursuing, partially financed by public money, so that fund managers can generate commissions for management and deposit of securities. Moreover, I have said nothing about the distribution of the net worth of these types of complements in Euskadi, for example, that the average is around 30,000 euros, for the majority of those who have such complements once they arrive at the time when they have to capitalise on this financial instrument. But it is true that, in turn, there are some who have - having resorted to these kinds of complements - very extensive complementary instruments. Therefore, this system, in addition to being a very greedy instrument for certain financial institutions, is a rather segregating instrument, because certain people are allowed to have a very small financial supplement to the public pension, which really does not serve as a de facto supplement but actually the basis is the public pension, but then it allows others to have very large complements when it comes to capitalizing. And, therefore, to influence this from public promotion is to influence a segregating model. On the other hand, we consider that it also deepens in this policy of deduction to savings from the public, which we believe also does not contribute to the strengthening of the generation of wealth and to the strengthening of the productive fabric. It is perfect for everyone to save in the measure of his possibilities, and, of course, welcome is everyone who can save, who will surely be a privileged person today. But the reality is that promoting savings in economic terms is not a sound policy for us, and we believe that promoting savings through tax deductions to these types of complements is not appropriate in order to promote the revitalization of the economy. We consider that... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...a... the... dyslexia, revitalizing the economy. We believe that putting the public pension system at risk is an absolute cruelty for those who cannot save. And to pose savings as a publicly promoted system, we believe that what it does is not encourage consumption, that in turn, what it generates is less productive capacity, and also less supply capacity on the part of companies. We insist, our initiative is a public commitment of this House to a public pension system as a fundamental pillar of the welfare state. On the other hand, open the reflection on the complements, to this public pension system, which we believe should be free and in line with what is contained in the Constitution, but in no case should it be promoted by the public administrations - as is currently being seen in the initiative being put forward in the Congress of Deputies, and which is currently under way, and which are to be described as the amendments that have been tabled by the various parliamentary groups. And in turn it also requires a certain reflection in Euskadi, which we are spearhead in relation to the implementation of such complements. There is also a need for reflection on the type of tax deductions that have been promoted in this case by the Member States over the decades. We believe, I insist, that this complementary system or these complementary systems, although there are substantial differences in certain models of complementary instruments or EPSV, we believe that what they do is to encourage savings that do not allow the strengthening of the productive fabric. On the other hand, we believe that it deepens in a segregating system, and, in addition, it also deepens in a speech that the public pension system is at risk when it is not true that the public pension system financially speaking is at risk. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u43	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, representing the popular-Ciudad groups of Euskals. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. And first of all, thank you very much to Mr Soto. The truth is that it always brings debates that are very interesting. Obviously, as I will explain in my speech, I believe that both the starting point and the conclusion can be different at the end; but I think it is interesting to bring this kind of debate into the House. A topical debate that will somehow be the foreground of what I think will be within a few days, the debate that we have, the full monograph on demographic challenge. Ladies and gentlemen, to build as you know a system of social foresight for people, as experts conclude that there are essentially three major elements, three pillars we could talk about. The first pillar is public pressure. The second pillar is or may be complementary systems. And the third pillar, the savings, the assets that people accumulate throughout their lives. There are different sources of income and then States do what they do is to give priority to some, to promote others, and above all, what the public authorities must do is to give the elements, the tools to the citizens, so that they are prepared above all, in the face of this kind of contingency; always always ensuring that people reach the retirement age, and then, later, to their expected and deserved retirement in a situation of dignity. As for the first pillar, which is public pension. Leaving aside the issue of non-contributory pensions - which, by the way, has been quite debated in the Government, I understand, that it is part of the proposing group - the public pension is based on a concept of what is called a distribution system, in which today's active workers, as you know, do what they do is to finance with their contributions to the current pensioners, who are yesterday's workers. On the other hand, Spain, as you know, has a pension system which, since it was established quite a long time ago, has hardly changed its philosophy or its functioning. And logically, the Spanish pension system when it was conceived, because it was before a social reality that is very different from the social reality that we have today.On what is it based on the traditional pension system, which essentially - with some very important amendments and agreements, among them the Toledo Pact we have today - but what is it essentially, on what is the social basis of that model? Firstly, where there are many active workers, there are many active workers. The clearer the better, logically by pensioner. There were 11 for every 2 active workers in 1980, 11 for every 2 active workers in 1980. Unfortunately, today the figure is much lower. Today we have 7 workers per 2, 7 workers per 2 pensioners. And it is estimated that by 2050 there will be 5 workers per 4 pensioners. What is another principle on which the traditional classical pension system is based? Where there is, where the retirement age is relatively advanced, in the sense that there are long periods of contributions by the persons concerned, of the persons who are many years of contributions; and then that there is third, let's say a period of time... a period of time, this is how it was done at the time, which was not too high, of life expectancy after retirement. That was the system on which it was based. People who worked until they were very old for the time, and then had little time to enjoy retirement. That was the system on which the pension system was based, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation today? Well, man, I insist, we have the full monograph on this. But, well, let's go ahead with some data. Spain is one of the oldest countries in the world. We know this. Or the most. Come on, we're there with Japan, but the question is, the question... The contest doesn't do either of us any good. And inside Spain, Euskadi is the worst. I mean, it's the one with the highest rates of aging. We have very low birth rates, this will be discussed in the full monograph. 1,31 children per woman in Spain, 1.25 in Euskadi, we are always below. In 1975 of almost three children for... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... full monographic: 1.31 children per woman in Spain; 1.25 in Euskadi, we always go below; in 1975 there were almost 3 children per woman. The life expectancy of men and women, fortunately, is also among the highest in the world, but, of course, the increase in life expectancy, logically, affects what the pension system is. From 1975 to 1920, life expectancy (...) about ten more years in the men and women sector, we all know that too. In Euskadi, in addition, we have suffered a relative loss of population - that is to say - we have suffered a relative loss of population in relation to what is Spain: today we are less Basque, proportionally. In addition to economic issues, although the retirement age - as you know, ladies and gentlemen - is now 66 years and two months old, the effective retirement age in Spain is much lower: it is approximately 62 years old, about 62.2 years old, according to the latest data I have been handling. How long are you in the OECD? Well, 64,6, almost two and a half more years. The life expectancy of retirees is in more than 20 years, compared to the OECD's 17 and little more. Anyway, what's all this for? All of this is to contextualize the situation in which we are in, in a country also that - and we have to say this too - it has high unemployment rates and also a submersible - therefore non-contributory - percentage of employment too. In summary, experts estimate that the retirement age should be delayed to 77 years in order to maintain this system. If we maintain the system as it is, the retirement age should be delayed until the age of 77, taking into account that the rest of the variables remain the same, as you know. This is the first pillar of public pensions. I believe that all groups in this House agree that we must protect, defend public pensions. That is why there is a pact, the Toledo Pact, which I believe all or almost all the groups in this House are in that pact, and that pact, traditionally, is coming together and is adopting a series of reports, recommendations, etc. I believe that on the basis, I insist, all the groups in the House maintain and defend that there must be a public pension system that guarantees dignity to people who reach retirement age. Secondly, the second pillar: supplementary social services. This is where it seems that the proposal of the Podemos Group is moving, that I have seen a small shade in the speech to Mr Soto, because, for what I have read in the proposal, it seemed that he was absolutely against both philosophy and the very existence of complementary systems. However, what I believe I have heard you say is that there is a freedom of choice, but that from the public authorities it is not promoted, is it not? I think that is what I have understood, although, I insist, it seems to me that the text was going a little bit on the other side. Sure, Elkarrekin Group's proposal. Can we get where it's going? He rejected the complementary systems - which, by the way, were recognized in article 41 of the Constitution - and said no, that this had to go differently. At first, I thought, "Well, they're contradicting their own speech." Because, of course, the discourse of we can, traditionally, is that the state or, rather, that things are managed by the citizen, whether it be the public authorities or entities more or less controlled by the public authorities. But, of course, they are coming into contradiction, because basically what they are asking in their GNP is for that money to be returned to society - that of supplementary benefits - so that citizens spend it and reactivate the economy, when, curiously, on the subject of taxes they have the different criteria; what they want is the opposite: that more taxes are paid, that there is less disposable income. That is, normally - if I have understood correctly - I believe that its argument is that the State manages money better than citizens. I think that's where his line of argument goes. Then you can argue with me. But it also wants to abolish all kinds of tax incentives - which are scarcely left, by the way - to systems complementary to savings. Sure, and this is where I got it. They are perfectly consistent, because what they do not want is for people to have complementary systems independent of governments and public authorities for retirement. With this, citizens will depend even more on the government in office; they do not want incentives to save for that. That's the situation I wanted to understand. The extreme situation of pensions in Spain is critical. The Government of Spain, Mr Escrivá, is trying to juggle. For the time being, what you are trying to do is to remove or remove non-contributory pensions from the common stock exchange. We'll see how they do it. Pensions are being paid in advance in Treasury. Now, as inflation has grown, we are in a transit situation, but also with loans to State Lotteries and Betting agencies. By the way, this is how the Treasury advances to pay pensions. And while the central government is - and here the Toledo Pact, which is important - the political parties that we are represented here are seeking a solution, let us say global, what can an autonomous community do? What can this Parliament do? Well, look, first of all, and I'm just finishing up, what can we do as an autonomous community, what is it? To the extent possible and within the competence of Euskadi, strengthen these three pillars. The first pillar: public pensions. We can do little there, but, perhaps, we can establish - and this is going to be done in the following full monograph - measures to stimulate births, improve that demographic challenge we have, improve the labour market, etc. Secondly, complementary systems. What can we do? Not only to maintain, but to increase incentives. Incentives in two ways: incentives through taxes and, then, incentives through supplementary contributions; that is, to encourage, in some way, companies and workers, so that if a worker, for example, enters an additional EUR 100 into his plan, which, at best, the company or whoever it is, can enter another EUR 50, another EUR 25. And with this I finish, and thirdly, the third pillar: saving. Also encourage savings measures so that people can also plan properly for retirement and old age with peace of mind. These are the things we can do. And that is why the proposal that we put forward - the alternative, the amendment - goes in this direction: to maintain - and, logically, to strengthen - the current pension system, but also to leave open the door for citizens to organize themselves together with these two measures, for which the public authorities do need to be involved. And for that we ask here today, ladies and gentlemen, your contest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u46	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'm sorry to tell you, Mr. Soto, that I don't... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u47	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. I am sorry to say, Mr Soto, that we do not agree with the proposal you have put forward on supplementary social security schemes or with the justification for the initiative. In our view, you are starting from the wrong premise, since the promotion of these systems is not eroding the public distribution model; on the contrary, it is in any case strengthening and complementing the public pension system. But we do agree on the unequivocal bet of the public pension system. Socialists think that the ethical principle underlying the pension system must be changed and viewed as a social model, where we first determine the desirable level of pensions we want to have, that is, expenditure, and then see with what resources to achieve them. That is why we have agreed and approved the reform of the pension system. A reform that precisely guarantees the economic and social sustainability of the social security system, which is also born as a result of consensus in the Toledo Pact and of social dialogue, an unquestionable basis for sound and sustainable reforms. This reform restores the value of pensions to guarantee their purchasing power and restores and strengthens the balance of the system. The State becomes the guarantor of the system's solvency through its budgets. A path already initiated with the General Budgets of the State by 2021 and which will continue in 2022. And that was realized in the greater transfer made to Social Security to address its deficit, in compliance with component 30 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and therefore assuming the commitment to the European Union, and with a clear objective, and that in 2023 the deficit of the system must be ended. This reform therefore places Social Security on a new path of financial equilibrium, where it secures pensions and the purchasing power of pensions and collects more progressive and realistic measures. And, together with this reform, we must continue to work in other areas that will also promote and strengthen our system, such as the way of job creation and, in particular, the quality of it or the way of boosting preferential employment pension schemes. The second pillar of the social security system, the complementary provision of a collective nature within the framework of collective bargaining, and in particular the preferential ones, is that which has an interest from a social perspective and that which allows its development to be generalized among workers. This is why it is the third objective within component 30 of the Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience, precisely that, to deploy supplementary pension systems in the business and professional fields. This provides for the adoption of a new legal framework to boost employment pension schemes. In compliance with this commitment, as Mr Soto has explained, the preliminary draft of the law regulating employment pension schemes is under way, with the aim of promoting supplementary social security. This preliminary draft law responds to recommendation 16 of the Toledo Pact, which focuses on the need to provide stability to the current model of supplementary social security and preferably boost the systems supported in the framework of collective employment negotiation, which comprise the second pillar of the pension model, which should be provided with an adequate and differentiated tax and legal regime. The aim of the new legislation is to facilitate access to collective schemes for middle- and low-income workers and small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for self-employed and young workers. It is true, Mr Soto, that it envisages the public promotion of pension funds, allowing workers' groups to be covered without employment plans in their enterprises or self-employed. And I also agree with you that it still requires reflection and work on this issue. But it also provides for the creation of simplified plans, in which sectoral collective agreements will become the key driving force. This enables sectoral collective bargaining to provide for the agreed employment plan to be extended to all enterprises in the sector. The creation of these plans will be carried out with a simpler procedure than the current one, so that, instead of each company selecting its own pension plan, it will be able to adhere directly to the simplified plan of the sector to which it relates. In addition, to facilitate transparency and portability between pension schemes, it will launch a common digital platform, where each participant will be able to easily consult all the information and perform the procedures in a simple way. Finally, the rule will be accompanied by a change in the taxation of these products, focusing tax benefits on employment plans, following also recommendation 16 of the Toledo Pact and the conclusions of the report of the Independent Tax Liability Authority on tax benefits. In the case of Euskadi we have the regulatory regulation of voluntary social security bodies, where the subtype of voluntary social entity of preferential employment is precisely included, which seems to us to be the most appropriate because of the requirement that they be generated in the field of professional work on behalf of others and through agreements, pacts and collective agreements signed between the participants. It will therefore be the collective bargaining itself in each case that defines the basic aspects of the plan, in exercise of the principle of autonomy of its negotiators, based on minimum requirements laid down by law. If we look at EPSV data in Basque, we can see how EPSV employment is distributed in a more homogeneous and balanced way between the different age ranges, which shows that this is the modality that gives the greatest coverage regardless of the professional category; the longer period of contribution, with which the greater average annual amount, and also the greater percentage of revenue collection. It is therefore important to adopt measures of promotion and promotion, such as the improvement of tax treatment, the inescapable need for information and training to extend awareness of voluntary social security and, in particular, measures to support implementation for voluntary social security institutions of preferential employment, since such a commitment effectively expresses the option in favour of a specific type of supplementary social security... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... This is because such a commitment effectively expresses the option of a specific type of supplementary social provision linked to this second level of protection. In our view, it is the one that makes social cohesion possible and avoids deepening inequalities. But, as I said before, Mr Soto, I agree that it still requires reflection, information and much training on this issue. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians represent the team, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning chief... Well, good noon, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Pention system is based on three columns: the first column, the public pension, the second column, the supplementary social foresight, the third column, the private pension plans. And, to justify the initiative today, since the three columns have confused a little, I shall try to give our view of the system. First column. Our political position rests on the defense of a public system of pensions, which will continue to guarantee the solidarity of generations, and which will remain the fundamental column of our state of well-being. A commitment to a public pension system, characterised by its sufficiency and sustainability, based on the existence of decent pensions within a framework of solidarity and transparency. With certain sources of funding, they guarantee pensioners predictable and adequate pensions. For us, the social security system must contribute to a number of first-class social objectives, be the predominant system of social protection in the area of pensions, maintain its public character - both in its financing and management - and ensure that older persons are not at risk of poverty. And, in order to achieve this objective and improve the situation of the pensioners of the Basque Country, we will continue to insist on demanding compliance with the Law, Organic Law 3/79 - our Statute - by transferring immediately the competences in the field of social security. And this is our position, clear, strong and in which we have always positioned ourselves on the same side: in the defense of the first pillar, of the public pension system. This position, Mr Soto said, is that which we ratified in this Parliament in 2018 in a compromise signed by our group, Basque Nationalists, Basque Socialists and Elkarrekin Podemos, and which counted on the favourable vote of Euskal Herria Bildu. And, therefore, most groups start from the same position: the indisputable defense of a public pension system. And, a position that our group and the Basque Socialists, in the amendment that we have tabled today, again ratify in our amendment. But this defense does not take away, does not take away that we must observe reality: that we must be aware that the system faces challenges, and that the system must therefore generate adaptation solutions. And there is the pillar, the second pillar: the complementary social forecast. The catalogue of factors that condition or can condition the system can be very wide. We find a multitude of definitions, determinations, elements: birth rate, mortality, dependency rate, life expectancy, ratios, taxpayers, pensioners... countless ratios with different magnitudes and their corresponding scenarios, evolutions and deviations. In the coming decades, moreover, we will experience major changes in the size and composition of the population of the Member States of the European Union and also in Euskadi: all the contexts point to a significant acceleration and aggravation of ageing. A sustained decline in the population living in Euskadi is also expected, which will lead to a demographic imbalance. Already in 2016, it was estimated that the working age population would be reduced by 12%, while the population over 65 would increase by 6%. The dependency rate over 65 years of age in 2026 would be reduced from 3.3 potential active persons to 2.3. And from the pension point of view, longevity also poses demands on funding, not only for the increase or increase in public pension expenditure, but also for social and health expenditure. And all this has to be tackled. In this respect, the European Commission's White Paper on Pensions recommends that the Member States of the Union, inter alia, enhance supplementary retirement savings plans. And this is particularly relevant if we take into account that the reserve fund is decreasing and that the replacement rate, although today it is relatively high, will gradually be reduced. According to the European Commission's study on demographic projections and pension prospects, the replacement rate for 2013 was 79%, it would fall to 60% in 2030 and to 48.6 in 2060. Therefore, with the data currently available, and with the aim of maintaining a replacement rate between public and supplementary pension around the current parameters, our group considers it necessary to establish mechanisms to enhance supplementary social security. A system, a foresight system that we remember, is in the model of social security itself that complements, so that social coverage levels can be increased in a large part of the population. An own regulatory framework with exclusive competence in social welfare has led to the development of this instrument in Euskadi, in addition to that in the State. EPSV assets already account for 36.5 per cent of Basque GDP, three times as much as in the state, which is about 10 per cent more or less, and similar to the European Union average, which is 35.2 per cent, but it is also true that it is far from the most developed countries, or the OECD average, which is about 63.5 per cent. And yet, even if we have this development in Euskadi, which accounts for 36% of Basque GDP, there are income imbalances, there are imbalances in territories, in sectors, and we believe that these issues need to be addressed. And the political groups that participated in the recent EPSV Federation Day, to which we were Basque Socialists, we and also Euskal Herria Bildu, were able to analyze these and other aspects, such as the analysis of the features of individual forecasting models and how they present important issues to improve: individual forecasting such as late access to the system - many years after joining the labour market - on sufficiency, efficiency and continuity in contributions, and, above all, on the adequacy of investment patterns. And since, on the other hand, employment systems revealed unequivocal advantages in view of the extension of social security... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the adequacy of investment patterns. And since, on the other hand, employment systems revealed unequivocal advantages with regard to the extension of social security to middle and low income segments, they ensured continuity and a tempered start in contributions, and they are those who massively and mostly satisfy benefits in the form of income. And they adapt, therefore, and will adapt better, to the needs of the average population. That, moreover, as we have said, offered a good balance of social utility, sufficiency, efficiency and fiscal cost. The main challenge, therefore, is the generalization of the supplementary social provision and the achievement of it in equitable terms for the entire population. With 2020 data, only 29% of the employed population has complementary employment forecasting systems, and their distribution by territory is not uniform. Therefore, addressing this generalization from our group believes that it will be possible through employment systems. A system that defines protected benefits, where shared contributions are made between enterprises and workers, which are determined by collective bargaining, where all workers are included, thus being non-discriminatory, and with a form of perception of the benefit in the form of income. They therefore fulfil the real purpose of the supplementary social provision, which is to supplement the public pension. And, therefore, not with a general saving, but with a finalist saving purpose, it is worth the redundancy, which are the ones that are best adapted in addition to the needs of the average population. And, in addition, they allow a good balance of social utility, sufficiency, efficiency and tax cost. This is the model we know in our jargon as the preferred employment EPSVs. Moreover, it is not only a conviction of our group to enhance complementary social welfare and, in particular, what we know - and I have just commented on - preferential employment EPSVs, but it is also a legal mandate. The EPSV Act of 2012 provides in its article 78, and I read literally: "The Basque Government shall establish measures to support the establishment of voluntary social security institutions and, in particular, of preferential bodies, both in the social, administrative, labour, technical and training fields". It also concluded the first Basque Social Security Council, where both the EPSV sector and the relevant social partners and institutions are represented. And I also quote literally: "The supplementary social provision must be developed in the field of employment". More. The document on the generalisation of social security in Euskadi, which also says that there is a basic consensus among the social partners who share the need to maintain the first pillar, does not preclude the same actors from admitting the need for a generalisation of supplementary social security through the second pillar. In the same vein, as Mrs Pérez said, in the State, in recommendation 16 of the Toledo Pact, which reflects the need to promote a complementary system of employment. And also the European experience, in which the generalization of complementary systems is the general rule that has always come through, in addition, the form of employment, where they are almost compulsory for workers, as in countries such as Great Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark or Germany. Therefore, the basic and fundamental pillar: the public pension system. But in order to meet the challenges and achieve higher levels of social security, the public pension - the first pillar, which is the basis - must be complemented by the second pillar. And, there, the necessary boost to the supplementary social provision, which complements the public pension with benefits in the form of a living income, as is the public pension. Today the three pillars have been mixed in the debate, but we cannot use the profitability of financial institutions to attack the supplementary social forecast, thus confusing the third and second pillars. It is not possible to criticize the complementary social provision of an individual and classist model when the complementary social provision, the employment EPSVs, for example, are not individual, are not managed by financial institutions, but it is the workers themselves who manage it. Moreover, when what they intend to encourage is precisely the opposite of the classist or segregating definition, they intend to give access to the whole staff, and not only to people with high wealth. We therefore believe that with the demographic challenge and the quality employment challenge that we must tackle, complementary social security will be the key in the future to complement public pension. And, therefore, we must bet on her now. That's our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u51	Good morning, everyone. Well, this is the subject of pensions again on the table, the subject of pensions. It's not the first time we've discussed the management and future of pensions in this house. And in fact, in this legislature already, and it has been said that, with the protection of different groups in 2018, we proclaimed the defence of the public pension system. Later on, in the state's pension system, according to the law enforcement system, there have been various changes made, e.g. 2013, by suspending the suffering factor adopted by PPP. That is to say, ending up with the wretched climb of the pensions of 0.25%. We have repeated this defence in the United States, here in Madrid and in all other institutions. Because we need a system of well-being, a comfortable and stable society because we need a system that guarantees worthy public pensions. A system that guarantees worthy conditions of life. The Basque Country is essential to the United States to have a system that protects public welfare, to have a powerful system of well-being. And the main support of that system is the important axis. Protection from those who worked for years. All these things which have made a remarkable contribution to the Basque Society, when they arrive at jubilation, will be a guarantee for a worthy life. And there, yes or no, it's essential and basic to guarantee public pension. The movement of pensioners has been proclaiming decent pensions in the streets for years. Here, in this house, they have come several times to explain their demands. But we all know that their petitions are not only for the improvement of their present state, for the dignity of widows, or for the relief of the situation of those who have the smallest pensions... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... to improve their present state, to mortify the widows' condition, or to relieve the state of those who have the smallest pensions. Their cry is also our cry. Because in the defense of public pensions we are all responsible, and we who are younger are also willing to be a decent public pension. The State, state, state, and pension system, which is now in full possession of great deficiencies. For example, there remains a living crack that women suffer. On the one hand, because the salary in the work world is reflected into pensions by means of a system of colonization, and, on the other, because they are women who are chiefly watched, and which leads them to be more or less active outside the market. With the direct effect of colonizing it, and consequently its influence on the future pension. The importance of building a just and advanced society for the Basque People is that they have a strong, strong, consistent, well-made public protection system. Social Security has a centrality between the parties of this powerful support system. We have always made it clear that the Basque People defends the safety of the Basque Society. Its own system, the system of euccany for the benefit of society, because the system of the State does not guarantee a worthy life, and a number of pensioners. We are therefore talking today about a public pension system of State competence, that is, in the hands of the Moncloa Government, which has been in the process of reform for years to bring it into line with the great challenges of the twenty-first century. Reform that has been given, that has been given in a way I do not know if disordered, but giving bandages, bandages depending on the tenant of the Moncloa of the moment, and that still today they are not more than small arrangements and patches, because it has not clearly faced the real situation of a system that, I insist, has been touched for years by curls, partially, giving partial answers, and that still today drags serious structural problems. A system on which the Basque institutions lack any competence, so that in this fundamental task of protecting Basque citizens, and guaranteeing decent lives, the Basque institutions do not have all their tools at their disposal, because there are not even the tools indicated in the Statute of Autonomy itself, as has already been mentioned, because we have been 40 years, and we still do not have the competence on the economic management of Social Security, and everything, and everything that it entails. A transfer that all successive Madrid governments have refused to transfer. A transfer on which we are constantly prevented from different areas of the state, using the scarecrow of fear and that paternalistic halo on the self-government to which we are accustomed. This transfer today seems to be on the agenda of transfers to be made by the Government of the State, but we will continue to wait. From Euskal Herria Bildu we have demanded this competition in an insistent way, and we will continue to do so if it does not arrive or if it arrives in a partial way, because in this ongoing work of vertebrating a complete and own social protection system, Social Security, and therefore, pension management, is a fundamental issue. It is essential for our country to have that competence to move forward, and for us it is basic as a germ for the creation of a system of its own that really guarantees decent retirements for citizens. We are talking about a crucial issue for any society that aspires to a state of developed well-being, that aspires to guarantee a life worthy of its citizenship throughout its life. Today, apart from the public pension system, the proposer has brought the subject of the supplementary public foresight. This subject has recently been laid down by PSOE and the State Government of the United States which Unidas Podemos compose, especially by pension plans. Work pension plan has put a law to promote it. The reason why the proposition is derived from it is rather logical, and so we have done it. But it's hard to understand our proposition of Podemos together on the table. All the groups here in Congress have shown their attitude to promote work pension plans, and the discussion is still open, as has been said. We find in the Basque Country that we are once more confronted with a proposition which does not answer our reality in Madrid, because it is once more the centralist point of state view, and it is a different situation here. For, on the one hand, we have our own powers, and have also our own powers about the additional forecast; and therefore we have our own figure. We have the own figure that includes the figures for the preventive forecasts that existed before, 80. what has been its own development since the decade, separated from the reality of the state, and independent of the control of the state. And this law, which is subject to dispute in the state, though not in its essence to define or regulate its own figure in order to render or regulate it according to its own foresight, will have a direct influence on it, if it persists in it. And again it will be against our autonomy. And then they won't find us. We will defend the autonomy of our institutions everywhere and in all respects. The choice of developing our own jurisdictions, which will not be limited to the growth of the state's laws. Absolutely. In the proposal to-day, about the subject of any additional foresight, I must say that I am surprised to read something which the workers have obtained in a collective negotiation, or which the workingmen take for their rights, to remove from the Government. Negotiate... and this is demanded of the Government, in order to open the negotiation of removing it. We'll find each other on the score of improvements for the workers, but we'll not be able to prevent the workers' representatives from carrying out what they've got in collective negotiations. So we confirm the defence of public pensions, we stand for the rights of these workers. And we will always go along with them... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... so that we confirm the defence of public pensions, and stand by the rights of those workers. And we will always make our way with them. Today, in this House, we once again ratify our defence unequivocally of a system of decent public pensions. And we recall that this Parliament has already taken a stand on this issue on different occasions. And as has already been mentioned, in 2008 in a special way. That's why... 2018, barkatu. That is why there is nothing left but to continue to work among all to ensure that citizens have a decent life, putting all possible means and options on the table. Work for decent pensions, for a system of protection of full citizenship, for the protection of the rights of women workers. And all this, for Euskal Herria Bildu is from sovereignty, and without renouncing any of our current competences, and of course none of our future competences. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. To answer that, together with Podemos-Nozzer of the Anicate Group. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u53	Thank you, Madam President. I have to make a mention of an argumental element that has been used by several of those who have come out to speak. And it is that, in reality, they question the public pension system - not so much in its theoretical framework, but in terms of whether they are at risk. In other words, they argue that, based on the birth rate and the different ratios that are probably actually addressed within a week in the full monograph, in the public pension system, the first pillar is at risk. And by making that interpretation of reality, they move on to the second argument, and it is therefore necessary to complement it. The first pillar needs to be supported, because the first pillar is indeed at risk because of those ratios or low birth rate elements. They elude a fundamental element, and it is true that the public pension system has an intergenerational character. But they elude an element, and it is that of productivity. To the extent that productivity improves, to the extent that, for example, the minimum wage improves, working conditions improve, precarious ratios improve - i.e. less precarious - the level of employment of young people, and consequently, this intergenerational nature of the public pension system will benefit from greater capacity to resist the call of the years. I do not think that using the birth rate alone and exclusively will then make it possible to justify the increase in support for complementary systems. And I am also surprised that an element such as increased productivity, which is usually a very handy reference on the part of the People's Party, in this case, because in this particular case, the speech is omitted. On the other hand, if the public pension system is at risk and the only way, or one of the only ways to support it and sustain it over time – well, not so much the public pension system, but the income guarantee of those who are going to be pensioners at the time – is the complementary systems, they will tell me how, they will already tell me how they will correct through complementary systems all those imbalances that are going to be maintained over time. Because the practice of implementing individual savings systems is what generates obvious and territorial income imbalances as well. And therefore, what is going to imply the fact that the public system is diminishing is not, of course, that, as a result of strengthening the supplementary system through the public, sufficient income will be available to guarantee the pensioner's decent standard of living. In other words, the second pillar of which we are talking about is not a guarantee of maintaining the level of pension income. The only instrument for maintaining the income level of pensioners is the first pillar, the public pension system. Because it is also much more balanced and much fairer in its contributions. I think it's also a contradiction. And it is said that it does not go from resources to support the first pillar, but in turn, for example, it is suggested that there must be reductions in social security contributions for companies that take advantage of these complementary systems. Well, that's going to deepen in fewer resources for the first pillar. And I think it's obvious. On the other hand, also with regard to the introduction of tax deductions for the promotion of supplements to pension systems, to the extent that deductions are applied to promote savings, this results in lower collection. I therefore understand that it will also deepen the difficulty of sustaining the first pillar, which is the public pension system. So, I do believe that what is said to mix, is not so much a mix. I believe that the different pillars are interconnected – which, by the way, are called pillars, because they hold something common. So, when it comes to talking about the system, we have to talk about the three of us. Then, on the other hand, regarding savings and the element of savings, as a bet by certain political formations through the public. The savings already many decades ago, Mr Keynes showed that it does not promote investment, that what it promotes is less consumption, and to the extent that it produces less consumption, what it generates is less income, and also generates lower profits or lower productivity on the part of companies. That, by the way, it also deepens on this intergenerational and also on this productive nature which is closely linked to the public pension system. For our part, therefore, everyone should be able to supplement their pensions as they wish if they are prepared to do so. But of course by holding in any case, from the public, only the first pillar, not promoting the second as it has been addressed here. Because we think it has a special impact on the first one. That is, to the extent that we strengthen through the public the second pillar, we are inherently weakening the first pillar. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours. [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that, Mr Soto, I did not understand you either in your second speech. I've got a couple of things left. The latter, which by strengthening the second pillar, which are supplementary forecasting systems, is putting the first pillar at risk. It's a fallacy. That's not it, that's not it. It's not like that. Not at all. Let's see, I think that here we have heard the different options, the different political groups, here there are basically three models: there is one model that is yours, supported by Bildu in this case, which is one pillar, one pillar. The pillar of public pension. There is another model, at this time, of the groups that support the Government. The pillars. And the second a little bit, mid-pensioner. Pilar of the public pension and of the subject of complements and such, but, well, be careful that, finally, we also have different visions here. Third model, ours. Third model, the three pillars: public pension, complements, but seriously and believing it to be true and encouraging the system that obviously also encourages savings. We are talking about savings intended to cover the cost, and above all the situation of people who are also in the elderly, once they have retired. Come on, the architects say that, don't they? That to find the points of perception, and above all, the support of a building you need three points, you need three points of support, right? We call for those three points of support, which we believe are the rational, the reasonable, and, above all, which have already been tested in other countries of Europe. It is the system that is used in the most advanced countries, specifically the recommendations of the OECD before I believe that Mrs Berrojalbiz has mentioned some question of these, the reports of the OECD, the last in pension systems also establishes this. That's what we're asking. In the area of our competences too, what can we do? In the field of our competences, what we can do, above all, well, try to improve. In order for pensioners to be able to have decent pensions, there has to be a system that is sustainable in the long term, and for that it is necessary to have contributory workers. That's what there has to be. What can we do in the field of our competences? Well, man, improve access to work, workload, etc., etc. There's a lot of things you can do. What can be done in the second pillar, that of complementary systems? We've already commented on the tax issues, haven't we? What happens is that it is also an issue that I understand that, man, the groups that are government because there are different opinions between one group and the other, the other that is also in the Government of Spain, are also you, although here it seems that almost every day that is forgotten. And then there's the third, which we propose. All three of them. I think it's the most reasonable system, I insist, and it's already been tested. As for the interventions of the other spokesmen, as a man, the subject of... Here there is an issue that is also flying over that is the change by the national system of what the pension system is going to be. I think I come here and say, "that's not that the system isn't at risk." The national public pension system is in a situation with its current, highly compromised system. We have to reform it, very committed. And man, I think denying reality deep down is part of the problem, right? What's going on with the pension system, what is it? For it was no longer enough with the system or with the money that had been saved in the common fund, but it was necessary to transfer from the regular budget, was it not? Moreover, that is something that we can, for example, I think I have always defended from the beginning, which is something that traditionally was not so, but that is also now being opened up by the Government of the Nation. In short, it will be something that will also have to be analysed. But what I am going to do is that in this type of debate, I think it is also important to make clear what options we have. That is why I insist, and with this I conclude, that what we are going to do is recognise the interest of this debate, but we are going to logically support our initiative, our amendment. Why? because it is the only one that we believe recognizes the three fundamental elements to ensure a situation, pensions and opportunities for people to plan their retirement and their life in the elderly. In the case of the amendment of the groups supporting the Government, we will abstain. They do not know if they will be so generous with ours, and probably not, but we will abstain because man refers to the first pillar, to the second a little bit, but not too much. In order to be able to vote in favour, we would have liked to have had at least one mention of the subject of taxation, and there is no such thing as that it was not even intended to include in the amendment, the subject of supplementary benefits; it has made a reference to paragraph 16 of the statement, but you have to go to paragraph 16 to say: "Look, it is the one talking about supplementary pensions", in case. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez. Mrs. Pérez? He mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, yes. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, to make things clear, I shall briefly say that some of them have not correctly defined our example here. One. Re-recognising the elementary and predominant nature of the public pension system. The first pillar. And second, since the conviction and the ferocious defense of the public pension system. Essential pillar of the welfare state. But if we want to overcome future challenges, we believe it is necessary to generalize the supplementary social provision among the workers. The second pillar. Therefore, I also clearly support the second pillar. Our group, Euzko Abertzaleak, believes that supplementary social security should be enhanced as a formula to supplement public pension, and it is possible to do so, as I said before, through the system of employment systems such as preferential employment PSES, because they offer unequivocal advantages such as the early start of contributions, continuity or their good balance of social utility. I said it before: sufficiency, efficiency and tax cost. Widespread access to all workers is therefore not discriminatory. These plans involve shared contributions between companies and employees. With contributions determined by collective bargaining, with a perception in the form of income and with a goal of finalist saving... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... companies and employees. With contributions determined by collective bargaining, with a perception in the form of income and with a finalist saving objective that is to supplement the public pension. And complement, Mr Soto, not replace. The law itself, as you said, defines them as pillars, because they complement each other. Indeed, in order for them to be supplemented, there must be and must be pushed forward and that second pillar must be strengthened, without leaving aside the first pillar, as I said before, but also by pushing forward the second pillar. And the question is: how to enhance the development of this second pillar? Our group believes that, among other things: one, with the involvement of the social partners and their inclusion in collective bargaining - such as the CRL - and also shared it in its opinion; two, with a training task to understand the purpose of this mechanism, which is to serve as a complement to public pension, through benefits in the form of income, and not only as a saving mechanism which is what (...) is now understood as an EPSV; and third, by strengthening and improving the role of taxation. With what we understand we will have to continue within the (OECD?) the reflection and analysis of the tax system, in order to improve the treatment of EPSVs from collective bargaining and preferential employment systems, which are, from our point of view, those that meet the purpose described and that complement the public pension in the form of income. It is therefore a question of ensuring that this element of clear social utility reaches the whole working class and, in particular, middle and low income segments, thus being more equitable and non-discriminatory. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Soto, and Mrs Berrojalbiz told you right now, you were talking about three pillars, but it seemed like at all times you wanted to make some pillar disappear, and I don't know how we're going to hold the house. But good. And besides, I have to tell you that I am very surprised that you tell me that you support a private pension scheme if you have money, because you have money – that is, voluntarily, one voluntarily – but, instead, those who are under collective bargaining between trade unions and employers, who are for all workers who are under that same collective agreement, you do not seem to be convinced. That's what I've come to understand. Frankly, I am very surprised, and I insist on what I said in my first speech: I am surprised to hear that we are urging the Government to go to collective bargaining to propose that what the unions have negotiated and that they consider as a right of workers to propose that it be eliminated by other options such as money for spending or so on. Honestly, I just didn't get it. And, Mr Soto, if you wanted to bring this proposal here - because in Madrid there is a bill on the table, which seems to be what we have at the end of your first speech - I don't know, go to Madrid, talk to your partners, because you are in the government, Mr Soto. And I don't quite understand what's coming to us here and I didn't bring it here in a clear and concise way, because first he tells us about the public pension and then he puts this here as an outlaw, and it hasn't been very clear to us what he wanted to do. Look, in the defense of public pensions we are going to be, in the defense of decent pensions we are going to be, in the defense that people have the right to have a decent pension - whatever it may be - we are going to be, but we are going to urge the government to go to collective bargaining and propose on the table that a right of workers be removed, there we are not going to find ourselves. I don't know if you've talked to the union representatives about this. I don't know. I'm very surprised, but, honestly, it's strange, it's strange. And Mr Gordillo, I don't think you've heard my speech very well. I have said at all times that we must defend our own competences - because it is something that EH Bildu has been doing repeatedly and we are going to continue to do so - and that there is a figure of our own, and what we are not going to do is to make a law from Madrid with a centralist view - once again, like so many others, including labour reform - where without taking into account the situation of the Basque Autonomous Community and of Nafarroa, but the figure is in this case only of the Basque Autonomous Community, without taking into account our economic reality, without taking into account the reality of the supplementary social provision in this territory, something which - although not directly, but indirectly - can affect us in a very serious, very serious way. And I believe that this Parliament has a responsibility there, because we have to defend our competences unequivocally. And, on this occasion, once again, we must defend our competences without compromise in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. After discussion, we're going to vote together like Podemos-Nozzer the original text of the proposition as well as the Anicate. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the opponents, 68; abstentions, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u61	So, not allowed original text. Next, the full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u62	Not accepted. Next we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists, the Eucan patriots. You can vote. [[Pause]] [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] You can count on it. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 40; the opponents are 0; Abstations, 34; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u63	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the popular Euscal Group-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group-about the VAT decline of energy. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Larre, representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u64	Well, thank you very much. The first reflection that I am going to do may be a little different from the initial objective of the GNP that is being presented, but it is that since we have presented it, things have happened, okay? Spain and Portugal join together and ask to disconnect the price of gas, that is, the price of energy from the price of gas, that energy is no longer at the highest peak as it was in March and that the nationalisms, that PNV and Bildu, have approved the package of anti-crisis measures of Sánchez. Things have happened. And about this last reflection I'm going to say, "Jolin. From their position of influencers that they have had with the Sánchez government, a privileged position, what have they brought?, what have they negotiated?" And I'm just wondering, "Well, what will they have gotten to vote for Sanchez for this package of measures? For prisoners? Prisons? Well, no, that doesn't worry families, really, uh. I mean, they could have squeezed a little bit more and they would have gotten things for the Basques to worry about as well. And, let's see, I'm going to talk now about the drama that surrounds us. No one could have predicted a year ago that the price of light would come to where it came from. In the wholesale market the average cost of each megawatt hour amounted to EUR 284.8 megawatt hour in March - Mr Otero said in his previous speech in the previous GNP - for a few days he exceeded EUR 400, even reaching EUR 544 megawatt hour on 7 March. And that was only a year ago 54 euros, i.e. eight times less. The price of electricity during the month of April has been set at €191.7 megawatt per hour. It is an important reduction compared to last March. But we're still suffering...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u65	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u66	... very high prices. The average bill for light in April reached 102 euros - we have heard this data before - 28% less than in March, but it remained the fifth most expensive in history. The invoice for an average household with a regulated rate rose to 143 euros in March, 33% more than last February's already high invoice, which was 110 euros. Measures to reduce the bill for light must still be implemented and the European Union must be authorised, so it will take weeks to reach the consumer. So far we have always been at the expense of natural gas, which has reached 200 Euro megawatt hours in Europe, after also spraying any previous registration. The high scale of pressure on Spanish production systems, as well as on families, with an inflation of 9.5% in Euskadi, must apply... They must lead us to implement urgent measures to prevent a bleed of unpredictable economic consequences. Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the world's second-largest producer of natural gas and Europe's first supplier, has been the final trigger for the explosion of the electric receipt. The anomaly, on the other hand, came much earlier: in July last year the threshold of 100 euros megawatt hour was first exceeded; in October the 300 euros were left behind; in December, 350; and in March, as I said earlier, 500 euros megawatt hour. Gas, which first rose through the brutal post-pandemic rebound of Asian demand and then did so in the heat of the Moscow military offensive, has been the determining factor in the escalation. Every euro of your life on the Dutch market, the European reference, translates into a round of around two euros in the regulated bill for light. And both gasoline and diesel have been constantly increasing since the week of December 20. How does this translate into an average deposit? I always like to take things to families. Because a 55 liter tank, right now filling the petrol tank would cost about 92 euros, which is almost four euros more than a week ago and 11 euros more than December 20. For a diesel refueling car would come out... the refueling would go out right now for about 87 euros, 4,6 euros more disbursement than last week and 13 euros more expensive than just before Christmas. But if the present famine stands out for the speed with which the amounts have grown, no less striking is the comparison with the year before. Gasoline is 29.9% more expensive than in the same week of 2021, which means paying 21.2 euros more per deposit. And this adds up and goes on for families. But not all that rise is due to the war tensions, as we have said. In fact fuel prices began to strain much earlier, because as the coronavirus pandemic evolved and economic recovery was taking shape the demand grew very fast; however, the producing countries did not make this forecast, they did not react to adapting the supply in the same proportion. And this situation has been affected in recent weeks by the war, which we have already talked about, of Russia, the third world producer of crude oil. And these measures, which have been taken, however, also hit the European economies on the side of the shortage of natural gas or oil... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... And these measures, which have been taken, however, also hit the European economies on the side of the shortage of natural gas or oil. And the Organization of Consumers and Users, the OCU, estimates that the current fuel prices compared to last year, on the basis of a vehicle of 20,000 kilometers in a year, therefore, involve a surcharge of 650 euros. That, in addition to the price of boilers - as has been mentioned earlier - the bill that energy families have to pay, is that neither industry, nor the primary sector, farmers, farmers or fishermen, nor Spanish carriers, nor citizens can bear the situation more. VAT is directly linked to the price of energy and fuel. Therefore, the more expensive the Government collects, the more expensive the price of these concepts. The state's coffers have therefore been raising a higher amount for the VAT concept. Do you know that the government has raised 20% more in the first quarter of the year compared to the first quarter of last year? In other words, the more expensive bills have been for citizens, the more the Government has collected. So, in the end, what we have to say is that we have to ask for the necessary measures to ensure that those who suffer least are families. And that is why we are repeating the idea that temporarily reducing energy VAT to 10% is not enough. It is not enough: it has to be lowered to 4%. And the European Council Directive, 542/2002, must be transposed immediately, because this will allow the State to reduce VAT to 4% to the super-reduced. Look, the government of Sanchez has raised our bills, the bill of light, to all families. You can't afford it. So, the ball is on the roof of Sanchez's government. And he's the one we want to ask from here to listen to the families and lower the tax pressure they're putting up with. I remind you that the PNV, Bildu, We can support the government of Sánchez; it is you. What are they going to tell people when they cross the street with them? What are you going to tell them? That's not, that, uh, with 10% VAT that's fine, that lighting the lounge light is a luxury and that asking to get down to 4% is a hairdo and it's not going to get into your pockets. Of course it will come, that it is money for families, that families need, and that this increase in collection cannot be allowed. Families can't afford this. Besides, do you know what's going on? That is, not only does energy rise; we have already seen that we have an inflation of 9.5% in Euskadi. That is, the price of energy goes up, the price of the shopping basket goes up 9.5 euros for a purchase of 100 euros... Jo, it's just, you have to think about the idea that we're here to give solutions, not to create problems. And our initiative is as simple as asking for a permanent 4% reduction in VAT on energy. It is in the hands of this Government. And it seems to you that lately, that you are the key to the Sanchez government, so you could have squeezed the nuts a little more and asked that for the citizens we have that much-needed VAT reduction, that to some it seems a little bit, but to lower six percentage points the VAT collection of energy would help a lot to many families who are in difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u68	Yes, thank you, ma'am. I'm not going that way, am I?, but since you've named it, we believe that any change in prison policy that would lead to a substantial improvement in the lives of prisoners and their families should be a cause for joy for all political groups. That's what we believe, and, of course, that's what we're glad about, even if it wasn't today's theme; but, well, since you've brought it up. We don't quite understand this mania of yours, only to make proposals to the Spanish Government through this camera. I understand that through this camera you can make demands here and there, but just looking at something else doesn't seem appropriate to us. Besides, the Popular Party started to lower their taxes just before the decree of 29 March, which seems to have been made to pressure in case the taxes fall down, or most of the problems are solved. And besides, they did a custom campaign – I think –, becoming infamous. I... The Socialist Party, I suppose, will defend... but even pulling posters from his party, saying that of 100 euros that are paid for fuel, 53 is taken by Sanchez; without any kind of rigor and without any kind of anchoring with reality. In any case, I am once again surprised that you have brought this proposal today, because this tax reduction battle, within the time frame of the measures to alleviate the crisis and also the energy prices, this battle has already lost it; that is, this train has already passed. And, as you said well, things happened. So, we are surprised that they continue to bring here, as a matter that has no practical journey, but in the end as an ideological mantra that tax cuts are the only mechanism to alleviate the problems we are experiencing now. And besides, it's a curious thing, because it's like... use the pylon hammer, when in reality the only thing they are showing us is that when someone whose only tool in the face of problems is a hammer, then he tends to treat all problems as if they were nails, right? Or, as they say in Mexico: for all evil, mezcal; for all good, too. And if it doesn't have a cure, a liter and a half. And then, already, you start to say that not only electricity, but gas, fuels... everything has to go down to a super-reduced VAT of 4%, as if you were also the adalides of tax cuts. Because one thing is to make a differential, to make a tax dumping in Madrid, provided there are others who... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...as if you were also the adalids of tax breaks. Because one thing is to make a differential, to make a fiscal dumping in Madrid whenever there are others who charge more, and another thing is when you arrive at the Madrid government, as you arrived in 2011, and through Mariano Rajoy in the first year and a half made 33 tax increases, 33 tax increases. So much so that you took the hobby to raise the taxes that you came to put a tax on the sun. In the energy field this was one of its great contributions. In any case, it's legitimate, it's his mantra, it's his idea, and here they defend him. But I would ask them to do it with a little bit of rigor, a little bit of rigor. And explain a few things. One, the legal framework, the legal framework in which we are moving. It's pretty demagogic what you're doing, you're proposing to drop from 21 in some cases, from 10 in another, to 4%. And you know that this measure has no legal anchor. You know that there is a European VAT regulation, and Article 102 is meridianly clear and says that after consulting the VAT Committee, any Member State may apply a reduced tax rate to natural gas, electricity or urban heating supplies. And you talk about fuels today, fuels don't come in. In order to lower VAT on fuels, the general tax rate should be lowered, which is what the European VAT rules say. If you want to reduce fuels to 4 % VAT, you have to reduce the general tax rate to 4 %. And that has consequences. Unless through those crazy tax breaks you want to decouple everything, which is also a political option. Second question. Reduced is not the same as superreduced. In the case of gas and electricity, Europe would allow VAT to fall from 21 % to 10 %. And in electricity, it's done, okay? But not a 4 percent super-reduced guy. So in electricity we'd already be at the limit. So from what you are proposing, the only thing that could go down – and there could be some room for discussion there – would be a 21% tax reduction on gas. That would be the only legal margin we'd be moving on. Because the excise duty on hydrocarbons, on which they have not spoken today, but have given us a lot of clutter, also has a hold on the lower limit that Europe assigns to us. But it's more, it's more, even if it could, even if it could be done, you should explain them, you should explain the accounts, right? Because, of course, tax cuts have an impact. The Government of the State has made it quite clear: the tax cuts that have been applied to electricity - VAT, excise duty and generation tax - would mean, if the measures are maintained one year, and will be maintained, a range of between 10,000 and 12 billion euros of loss of State revenue capacity. With the fuel bonus - of which the state assumes 15 cents and the big companies 5 - will amount to the quarter 1.5 billion euros, that if they are maintained one year would be 6 billion euros, okay? If fuel VAT were lowered from 21 % to 4 %, this would put us at state level at EUR 3.5 billion per quarter. For four, in one year it would be 14 billion euros. With gas, three quarters of the same. If we do the sum of everything, it would be a loss of revenue capacity of between EUR 20,000 and EUR 30 billion. You have not talked about this, because you too, on the other hand, like the rest of the political groups, are talking about the state having to put in aid for vulnerable sectors, vulnerable consumers, businesses, professional sectors, etc., which is money... that extra collection that you were talking about where it comes from, that 6 billion euros of aid that has been approved while the Decree of 29 March has been approved. If we moved this here, because this would have a very big impact, the abolition of the excise duty on hydrocarbons would mean the loss of the collection of Basque deputies 1.5 billion euros, plus a range of 800, 1 billion euros for the super-reduced type of VAT reductions. We are talking about that on the budget of the Basque Government, of EUR 13 billion, you are in practice proposing a drop in revenue of around EUR 2 billion. You should explain who we're going to take that money from. We're talking about education, we're talking about health, we're talking about social policies. What are we talking about when we're talking about those drops? Thirdly, effectiveness, the question of effectiveness, because it is not that taxes have not been lowered. It has become more than proven that the fall in taxes is not fixing the electricity problem. We have reduced VAT from 21 % to 10 % in electricity since June last year, and it will last at least until the end of June this year. Has the price of electricity gone down? No, the price of electricity has risen. So we all know that the structural measures that would bring down the price of electricity are on the other side, on the other side. They are, as we have been saying for many months, in the decoupling of gas, of the pricing structure. But they don't talk about all that stuff. Nor do they, as the International Monetary Fund says, talk about the fact that companies that are having completely extraordinary profits at this high price juncture are applying a special rate to them. But you're obviously not going to talk about corporate taxes. And to finish, and Mr. Alonso is not here, but I think he's pointed in a good direction before. This is not just about rising or lowering taxes, it's not just about relief from the prices that end-users and families pay, and so on, it's also about energy transition. And the fiscal policy associated with energy - from the European Union and, in cascade, the rest of the institutions - is also linked to the changes that need to be made in energy. Because it is not the same thing to do a decrease in VAT on electricity - when we know that in the energy transition we have to tend to make the price of electricity low, and there it can be interesting - or to do so in all kinds of energies, which would give a very wrong signal when it comes to encouraging the changes that need to be made in the energy transition. So I also think that we need to be very careful about the balance that we have to have in the short-term palliative measures, which, of course, we are also supporting some of them in Madrid, but also not to be able to have the possibility of, through taxation, giving guidance or making attempts to change energy policies that have to discourage certain energy consumptions. We, seeing your proposal, had different options. And in the end, we said... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...energy. We, seeing your proposal, had different options. And in the end, we've said that we're going to bring the proposals we're looking at here. We're bringing some, and we're trying to get some more. Ya que Madrid, we thought, at least, we were trying to negotiate in Madrid, because we had a few offers that we've come to discuss. And at last we have proposed the measures which we are discussing in the other places, in order to rectify them: a thorough auditorization to the electric production, a limit to prices, a tax pre-use tax, and an access to unusual profits; or incluso-intensive electricity, and gas-incensives (... ); or provide help for families and professional sectors. It's true, things are over, and some things have been accepted from our planning release, others have not been accepted in Madrid. And we'll be working on this or this line. But we don't think there's any such thing as a forum, and besides, such a term... The site and the moment to discuss non-ritoury terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u69	Thank you, Mr. Otero. We go to groups that don't run, together Podemos. Mr. Soto. Aren't you supposed to be part of it? The team that didn't run any corrections. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u70	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, I'm not going to go too far in my speech. I think it is an out-of-date initiative, the spokeswoman of the People's Party has already expressed it in her speech. Things have happened, and pretty important things. Among them was approved in the Congress of Deputies the National Plan of Response to the Impact of the War of Ukraine, of the crisis we are experiencing, especially the energy crisis. And that is where substantial measures have been put in place, and the People's Party did not want to materialise or launch because it voted against it. I would like to ask Mrs Larrea, what face would you look at people right now if the decree had not actually been passed. How would you look at people, if you came here to raise a 4% VAT reduction, you would not have gone ahead with the decree; and indeed, right now we would not have a 10% rebate on the bill. I mean, I find your position so incoherent that it is difficult to understand that you have continued to maintain the initiative. I'd also like to know how... Finally, you would look at certain people's faces with regard to certain measures contained in the plan, for example, limiting the renewal of rental contracts to a 2% increase, or aid of 0.20 cents per litre of fuel. Or, finally, how would you propose a conversation with someone who has been extended the electric bonus as a result of the initiative approved at the Congress of Deputies. And you, the argument you have used both in Madrid and here has been what it has been. ETA, and the support of certain independent political forces, which in other latitudes is useful to it. Of course, it is without any responsibility, what they have done in the Congress of Deputies. But also here, in the framework of the Basque Parliament, his initiative was discussed, there was a monograph. And one of the resolutions that you put forward in the monograph was exactly what you put forward in the monograph was exactly what you brought here today. And he's already been rejected. So, I do not understand very well to bring it back, when this issue has already been discussed in the monograph. It has already been said that, in addition to the short-term measures - many of which were adopted within the framework of the Congress of Deputies - there is also a need to address certain structural elements that you do not normally propose. On the one hand is pricing, the marginalist system. On the other hand, there is what has to do with the profits and illegitimate profits that certain companies derive from the marginalist system itself that they have driven over the years. You don't talk about it either. They do not talk about how they combine, and I have already told you that Mr Otero, those tax cuts, with the maintenance of these short-term measures in support of the most vulnerable; or, if necessary, of other public systems on the part of the State, of their case on the part of the Basque Government. They don't talk about all that. But they come here to caricature, to raise a tax reduction that is also unattainable, which this House does not even have the power to apply. Moreover, the Congress of Deputies could not be concluded either. So, for our part, we do not understand the initiative too much, and we will therefore vote against it. And I think that to deepen much more in this debate, when I insist, there has already been a monograph, there has been a debate in the Congress of Deputies. All the answers to the approaches you have already made have been answered. To continue here bringing in initiatives that are extemporaneous I don't think they report anything. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u72	Thank you, President Andrea. The Government of Spain is acting to alleviate the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine on two fronts. On the one hand, the agreement between the Governments of Spain and Portugal and the European Commission to fix a reference price for gas on the Iberian Peninsula. A top that does not exist in the rest of the European Union, which will benefit all citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises, and industry. On the other hand, the royal decree law with urgent measures that was adopted in the Council of Ministers on 29 March... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... small and medium-sized enterprises, and industry. On the other hand, the Royal Decree-Law with urgent measures was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March and has been validated by the Congress of Deputies. This Decree-Law includes selective tax rebates, such as 60% of light taxes, and the reduction of tolls to the electro-intensive industry. It also includes direct aid to sectors such as transport, livestock, agriculture and fisheries, and the protection of the most vulnerable consumers through, for example, the electric social bond, from which 2 million households will benefit. At present, and until 30 June, a reduced VAT on electricity of 10% is in force for all consumers with a power contract of up to 10 kilowatts. Similarly, the 7 % tax is suspended and is reduced to the minimum that the Special Electricity Tax allows Europe from 5.11 % to 0.5%. For its part, aid for the Social Electric Bonus has increased from 25 % to 60 % for vulnerable consumers and from 40 % to 70 % for severe vulnerable consumers. In the case of gas, the minimum amount received by the beneficiaries of the Thermal Social Bonus has been raised from EUR 25 to EUR 35. That is why you, Mrs Larrea, have had a good opportunity to contribute to these fundamental economic and social measures for our country, and yet your group has again chosen to vote against it, as it did with labour reform. As I said, one of the measures that can most help lower the bill for light and therefore contribute to reducing inflation is the agreement with Brussels to intervene in the electricity market. This historic measure is a pioneering precedent in Europe by allowing specific measures in the Iberian energy market, which puts the interests of citizens ahead. It will reduce the electricity bill for an average consumer of the regulated tariff by 30% and will help to reduce inflation. This means that the most affected so far will be the most benefited when the measure comes into force. The agreement also recognizes the good work of our country in recent years in the field of energy, where it highlights the implementation of renewable energies, and is born with the commitment of the commission to take a more active role in the development of the interconnections of the Iberian Peninsula with the rest of the continent. Improving interconnections is essential for the peninsula to benefit from the advantages of belonging to the EU's internal electricity market, and to enable us to be a benchmark in renewable energy, exporting green, efficient and cheap energy to the rest of Europe. We must continue to work towards a more socially, economically and environmentally sustainable energy model, as well as for Europe's energy autonomy. That is why we have been the first country to adopt a legislative framework on climate change, a climate change law, an integrated national energy and climate plan, recognised by the European Commission as one of the best proposed by the Member States, and an investment of 40% of the 70 billion European funds for the just energy transition. Therefore, given the rise in electricity and gas prices in recent months, the Government has been taking measures and initiatives to protect consumers and ensure an affordable bill for both families and industry. A complex set of measures, faced with a very complex challenge, which is not solved by tax cuts, as proposed by the People's Party. And you have already done so who has preceded me, and although it sounds repetitive, it is still true that you, Mrs Larrea, show a lack of consistency in taxation, since you differ in your speeches with the facts when you have government responsibility and have to implement budgets. I remind you that the Government of Spain in 2012, when it ruled the People's Party, made a widespread rise in taxes. In just over a year and a half it created, amended and extended taxes in all areas: VAT, IRPF, IBI, housing, special rates, university fees, health co-payment, excise duties, and in the electricity tax it created up to seven tax figures: they approved the increase in the VAT of light to 21 %, the 7 % tax on the value of electricity production, the special tax on electricity to 5.11%, and most importantly they had the opportunity to reverse these increases when they ruled and did not. Socialists have always thought that we must go to a solid, coherent tax system and that it will enable us to maintain a state of real well-being. The policies of the proposing group, the People's Party, in our view, do not pursue these objectives, but it is also that the approach to tax cuts is not consistent with the demand for more aid and resources to alleviate the economic and social consequences that we are suffering as a result of the conflict in Ukraine. International economic bodies, such as the IMF, the European Commission and the Bank of Spain, have not only denied some of the measures proposed by the People's Party, but also discourage tax cuts as an instrument to combat inflation. Reducing indirect taxation is not necessarily the most effective solution to address energy affordability, especially if high prices persist. VAT reductions have a bad history when it comes to moving at low prices for consumers. Furthermore, in order to implement the 4% reduction proposal, the approval of the European Commission would be necessary, as it is a super small and exceptional rate for our country. We have room for timely support for specific objectives, as all governments are doing within the European framework. And the best way to make a service or product accessible to citizens is not by lowering a tax on time, but by working on a fair and redistributive tax system, and especially by working on a tax harmonization that avoids the tax dumping that some territories like Madrid exercise, which has become a kind of tax haven with an advantageous position thanks to the exemption from the Heritage Tax. Fiscal harmonization is the best measure of progressive equity and economic efficiency, not a tax reduction in a current context, and less without detailing what part of the expenditure would be reduced. These proposals lack the necessary rigour and are certainly opportunistic. Do you think it makes sense to talk about tax cuts right now?, how would we pay fuel subsidies?... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...becoming certainly opportunistic. Do you think it makes sense to talk about tax cuts right now?, how would we pay fuel subsidies?, the ERTEs?, social spending? Mr Otero has given the perfectly low collection figures that would imply his measures. They're talking about reducing the lower sections of the IRPF, but that would have to be accompanied by increases for high incomes. This is the only way to contribute in solidarity to alleviate the effects of the crisis without affecting the redistributive nature of the tax. However, that is not mentioned in your proposal, what a coincidence. They also speak of a deflation of the IRPF sections, which in any case Galicia has not done, and other communities have done so. A country's fiscal policy is very serious. We therefore ask them to be responsible and to contribute more proactively at this time of difficulty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u74	Yeah. Thanks again, ma'am, members of the legislature, chief of the departments. Finally, I am occupying that seat precisely with the intention of pushing in the direction that this Parliament or another which resembles it with 25, 50 more members, those who need them, can in the future urge the European Commission to talk about VAT or whatever it is. So, when the debates that arise here are to urge the Madrid government, which currently has that power to do anything, the truth is that... well, not only in the debates that I feel most comfortable with the truth, because for that we have six Members in Madrid who do that work. Look, here 31; there, six. It's the other way around, isn't it? Six and 88, if I'm not mistaken, but they're working to take away the work of the poor. In any case, look, I give them all or almost all, at least as well informed, I'm going to take a whole sheet of explaining how we've come to this situation, why. No, Mr. Sánchez doesn't raise the bills because he wants to, I mean, this is all a lot more complex, isn't it? I believe that most of us have a much clearer picture of the current situation, and I understand that in the face of such a complicated situation, because we can get nervous and the nerves can be understood; and this has to worry us and deal with, Mr Otero, too. You don't have to watch TV lately, do you? Domestic bills for the clouds, the industry in jack, the damaged agricultural sector, transportation on strike, the fishing fleet stopped... Anyway. And to deal with these exponential increases that end up impacting the bill on consumers, as the Spanish Government has been taking action. If I am not mistaken until three times: September, March and April. That in the current context or at every moment they have been insufficient, precisely because the high prices have absorbed the benefits of these measures, last Thursday with a real decree law to combat the economic and social aspects after the invasion of Ukraine and its impact on energy prices. This, as we pointed out earlier, has particularly affected certain sectors such as industry, transport, the primary sector, and also, of course, vulnerable families, workers and groups. In addition, everything points out that inflation and the energy crisis will continue for a while between us, and it is urgent to make a realistic diagnosis, establish a plan and implement it effectively. Therefore, our priority is to establish an energy policy of consensus, of consensus of the good, which comes after talking and negotiating. Not the one who creates the need for you and that they take you to a horse's nail based on omnibus decrees in which you have to swallow what you share and what you don't, because patience also has a limit. And it is true that the current crisis has shown that we must accelerate the abandonment of fossil fuels, that the climate crisis is now joined by an energy dependency at European level, and that the transition to renewables must be accelerated. And that is why, as I said in the previous point too, we must be cautious about the measures proposed at a time like this. And with this I do not mean that we apply that Ignatian sigma that in times of zozobra do not move, but that, I insist, we must be cautious. And I, sincerely, Mrs Larrea, was convinced that today you were going to withdraw this point, because honestly there is no place to take it. I'm not going to extend, but I've explained it to you. They don't have a legal hook, they don't have a pass anywhere. Mr Otero has read to you Article 102 of the European Directive on the reduced tax rate, but it is that Article 99 says that the reduced rates will be fixed with a percentage of the taxable base which cannot be less than 5%. What's going on? Well, I mean, in the end, it's what the state has done, isn't it? has used this authorisation given to it by the European Commission to reduce VAT on electricity temporarily from 21/10. And you, like Marx, but Groucho doesn't Karl, don't say, "And now a hard egg." And I don't know where that four comes from that you bring us here today. And I really thought I was going to withdraw it because even his party has changed its strategy lately and ended that populist and senseless campaign that is reflected in his proposal today and that Mr Otero explained earlier. Sanchez's on his way. What's Sanchez going to take? Because in addition last week, you made proposals in Congress that you may or may not agree with, but that you begin to gain strength, you begin to make sense. And not this occurrence. And I also understand, don't I? One that makes a flag because of the tax drop, the right mantra when they're in the opposition, by the way, when they're in the government... the theme can be changed. But it is that his party, his party, that of Freijoo, that of the PP, that of Madrid, that of Genoa, last week when he makes his proposals proposes the reduction of VAT to the minimum allowed by the European Commission: the five. And not the four as you propose here. A hard egg. Anyway, I used to say that too, it's time to (establish?) short, medium and long-range measures. If you want to sing Sabina: with the cry in the sky, but with the feet on the ground. No populism and no toast to the sun, because it's a lot... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ...short, medium and long-range measures. If you want, as Sabina sang: with the cry in the sky, but with the feet on the ground. No populism and no toast to the sun, because it's a lot of what we play. And, look, I was telling you at the beginning of this intervention, we do not like how the Spanish Government is making decisions in this regard: unilaterally. Nor do we agree with all the measures that are being taken and which we have to vote for, as I said, in omnibus decrees, which have things that you either take or leave, right?, like lentils. Nor do we know what the development of the star measure, which we are waiting for, which we have been asking for for for some time now. The gas disconnect, let's see how it's going to get down. Nor do we know the small letter. But, still, we are convinced that it is time to tie the shoulders and not the ascuas to the sardines. I mean, I'm not going to enumerate, I'm not going to do like Mr. Otero, who told us his - I think it's perfect -. I will not enumerate, ours are there, they are deposited in the Congressional Register of Deputies, and there we will continue fighting them on the pediment: forward, backward, wide and txoko, where it is needed. And the facts, the facts. And on this subject that concerns us, last week they were simply taken on energy, some have already been noted, but decisions were taken in which you were not: the 20 centimeters - 100 centimeters, forgiveness - discount for each litre of fuel, the reduction of VAT to 10 % until 30 June in the bill of light, 0.5 to the special tax on electricity, extension in the last resort tariff, social electric bonus, employment protection - that is, that it is not considered objective to lay off in companies that justify or attempt to justify it by reason of the energy price or the consequence of the effects of the invasion of Ukraine - direct aid of EUR 450 million for the rise in fuel price, aid to the railway sector, aid to the electrointensive industry. And you here: nothing at all. They'll say whatever excuses they want, but nothing at all. We're getting 4% illegal. So, I think I've already told you, but I don't understand why you're still not withdrawing this initiative. Finally, the current urgency - we said it or we said it in the previous point too, and here there are spokespersons who have also said it - is to maintain our commitment to the sustainable development goals and to accelerate, to the extent possible, the achievement of a new energy model that will bet on the decoupling of fossil fuels and the neutrality of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, in line with the EU's commitments. We must implement, as I said earlier, all the necessary tools at our disposal, with the aim of increasing energy efficiency, increasing the generation and consumption of renewable energy, and deepening the Basque energy research strategy, with key levers for a just energy transition. To this end, the predictability, stability and competitiveness of electricity prices are essential. That and not defuse the institutions, which, in short, are the ones that redistribute wealth. I really do not understand that you will not withdraw this initiative, which I assume you will have assumed that we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing the answer round, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u76	Thank you. Look, I present the initiatives here because I like to debate. And if you have to do it over and over again, then it's done. And if we have to talk about the reduction of VAT on electricity, consumption by families, then we are talking. I will tell you one thing, Mr Soto: on 1 July you will look at the families to whom the VAT on the bill for light has risen to 21 % again, because the measures that have been taken expire on 30 June. We'll see what they take again from there. And it is true, Mr Otero and Mr Grajales are right: the European directive says that VAT can be reduced to 5% - I read it when I made my speech -. And that we have asked for 4%, but we recognise that it is 5%, that when I wrote the initiative I was governed by a series of directives, and in my speech I said 5%. But I will tell you one thing: I do not know what is stopping them at the moment from urging the Government of Spain to go down, to reduce the VAT on energy, when there are so many initiatives here that urge the Government of Spain. But when we introduce her, we don't go. Because this very morning the Spanish Government was urged to amend the Hydrocarbons Act for Community boilers. This will have been done by your group, won't it, Mr. Grajales? Then I want to say one thing: when the value of things rises and VAT is linked to that value, the collection increases. Mr Otero, you were telling me that this was being transcribed into a reduction of the hydrocarbon levy of 2 billion for the government's budget here, for the Basque budget. Do you know what's going on? That what needs to be done is to optimize resources. And don't tell me that resources and social aid are paid with the collection of hydrocarbon VAT. No man, no, it's done through another kind of collection. I do not think that the collection of hydrocarbons will eliminate social aid, health care, has told me about education... Let us not, let us not, that this is an ideological debate on how to manage the country's economy. And in that debate it is clear that we do not agree. But ideological debate is necessary, because, a few years ago, you said that the People's Party is the party that raised taxes the most. Of course, if we were left on the brink of a crisis in which there was, we were at the point of European intervention. It is that you allude to the year 2011, of course, of course, is that how you left the country, lords of the Socialist Party. Of course, they don't like to hear the truth, but when they tell us one thing, they'll have to decide why that's at the time that collection. Because we were on the verge of intervention. Look, there's nothing healthier than realizing that the measures being taken are not enough... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... at the edge of the intervention. Look, there is nothing healthier than realizing that the measures being taken are not enough to help families. When this anti-crisis decree of the government of Sanchez was voted in Congress of Deputies to alleviate the crisis arising from the war in Ukraine, it is that, the crisis has not arisen from the war in Ukraine. Spain had already had difficulties in its economy, with a decline in the pandemic; it was already coming from afar. Then, a series of measures are decreed that do not meet the needs of families. And that's the problem: that 20 cents per liter of collection, for every liter of fuel a family refuels, because it's 20 cents. And surely a government doesn't suppose anything, but a family, with an average income of about 33,000 euros per year, so it's a lot; 650 euros in the fuel tank of a car for a year is a lot. And that little discount for us is small, but for families it's big. And this is what I came to bring here: an ideological debate on how to encourage families to be better and to be warm, to turn on the light, to move to their work... This is what we were bringing here: an ideological debate. And if we have to give the battle a thousand times, we will give it a thousand times, because that is what this Parliament is for: to present initiatives and discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u78	Yes, thank you. Well, if you want to have an ideological debate, that's fine. What we do not want to do is a demagogic debate. Because, of course, you happen to distinguish the part of VAT that goes to the Basque Government from electricity or the excise duty on hydrocarbons from the other taxes that we pay, and then you know that those moneys that go to social policies are not those that come from energy because those of energy - as we all know - go to Sanchez's pocket. Anyway, that's the level. I want to finish this part of the argument for us, don't I? −, it's not time to plan a grand descent through a low tax. And in our opinion, as a general criterion, the Public Administration must perform a function of the fortune redistributor, keep the service, protect the damaged sectors, support the vulnerable people, and that requires a strong collection of money. Well, that's our position. But, well, since he's out, a couple of little things did want to comment, didn't they? Mrs Pérez, of course, you have made a speech - let us say - canonical of the speech that PSOE is having in Madrid, defending the measures that have been taken, and selling - let us say - of how important the measures that have been taken are. And you have already talked about what has been achieved in Europe, about the consideration of an energy island on the Iberian peninsula and getting rid of gas prices, you have put it as a historic measure, haven't you? I want to mattize this, in a good way, but I want to mattify this. I mean, here the historical measure -- we all know, and I know that your government is in those keys -- would have been to put an end to the marginalist system, which is really giving the problems of the increase in electricity and the false price signals that they are giving. As you have failed to achieve this - you and the Portuguese government, which has also tried, have failed to achieve this - you have managed to propose a cap at the price of gas going to electricity generation. And they sell it like a panacea; it's not. And I'm gonna give you a couple of bills, okay? You proposed, together with the government of Portugal, that the price of gas destined for electricity should be paid at 30 euros. At 30 euros. In the end, they've got the average for the next year to be 50 euros, okay? EUR 50 for raw material. But it turns out that gas goes to combined cycles and cogeneration. So, you have to buy two megawatts of raw material to get a megawatt hour of electricity. With this, the megawatt hour, already starting, of withdrawal, will cost 50 by 2: 100 euros the megawatt hour. But we have to add that the electricity market is subject to the European CO2 emission allowance market, so CO2 emissions must also be paid, and right now - I have just looked at it - the tonne of CO2 is at EUR 91. And a combined cycle center emits - for every megawatt hour generated, emits - half a ton, so it has to pay another 45 euros at today's price. That's already 145 euros the megawatt hour. But, besides, there's a gap between the maximum price of gas that's going to be paid with what's actually costing on the market, okay? In MIGBAS – I have just looked at it – it is 82; in the Dutch TTF, which is the European reference market, it is 102. I mean, from those 50 to those 80, or 100, depending on where you buy it, that's gonna have to be compensated. And, that, within the electricity bill, as Minister Rivera has said, which is where this is going to impact, this means that there are another 25 euros more per megawatt. That means the megawatt hour of gas... electricity from combined cycle plants will cost at least EUR 150 in the future. And that means that the bill on the prices that are there are going to go down a bit, they are going to go down a bit, but, of course, they're going to be very-very-very far away from those 45 euros the megawatt hour they've been on average in the last 20 years. That is to say, that you with this measure are going to get - and it is not a small thing - perhaps to lower from that average of 120-130 euros the bill of light, the final price of the consumer, to maybe 90-100-110, which is a sensitive drop. But for nothing it's the panacea, and for nothing that's going to be what's going to turn you around on the rise of the CPI, etc. Which, well, lower that a little bit... don't you? That's what you bring in; I don't know what to call it. Okay? Eta, azkeneko kontua, yellow grajales left to beat nahi diot utzi. Zuek entratu gara ez zaretela zaleak decrees every bus of your horretaz zion. They are not in favour of the omnibus decrees; we must vote all in trope, with measures that we like very much, others that we like regular and others that we like very little. I say that the package of complementary measures to deal with the crisis that Urkullu - the lehendakari Urkullu - planted us in the midst of the monographic debate, how are we going to define it? I decree omnibus measures, trolleybus measures, measures... Because, besides, those had something else, huh?: that we have not voted on them anywhere. And those, at least, we have had the opportunity to vote on them. I'll just leave it there, in case you want to comment. And, by the way, no one has told me what you are going to do with our proposal; it would be good for you to support it for once.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together, Podemos-Etazation team shouldn't take the word... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...to do you with our proposal; it would be good if you would support it for once.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u80	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Together, Podemos-Netation team shouldn't take the word. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u81	I feel a little obliged. Mrs Larrea, you do not have to bring in initiatives to urge the Congress of Deputies or the Government of Spain. What they have to do is exercise their responsibility in the Congress of Deputies, because in July 2021 we approved the temporary reduction of VAT on light from 21% to 10%, and the suspension of the 7 % tax on electricity generation. And you, once again, the People's Party, for it did not vote in favour, claiming that the executive measure did not address the problem. With this, you yourselves acknowledge that tax reduction is not the solution. In fact, it should be remembered that the VAT reduction represents a savings of six euros per month on the invoice of an average household, i.e. 36 euros per year, while the suspension of the tax on electricity generation allows a reduction of 2 to 3 % on the invoice of households. More measures are required than tax rebates. In fact, his only proposal, that of his party to date, has been to make temporary fiscal reforms permanent, but without explaining how to address the increase in social spending or the direct impact they would have on the State's accounts. But I am going to give you some data on that impact, because lowering the VAT that definitively sets the light to 10%, not to say 4% or 5%, would mean an economic impact of EUR 1,780 million per year, of which almost half would be covered directly through the General Budgets, while the rest would be for the autonomous communities or municipalities. That is why I ask you once again for rigour and responsibility. Do not use the crisis permanently to try to go against the Government, and think more about your country. And, Mr. Otero, for no one has said that it is the panacea, but it is a real measure that is going to imply a reduction in the bill of light. And, anyway, I thank you for the nuances you have made, and also for giving you the opportunity to have explained it so well, which has shown you to dominate the subject widely, and, of course, much more than I do, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u83	Bai, mila esker, berriz era, legebiltzarburu andrea. I don't even know why under this, if I don't need it, because I don't even know where to go. No, I don't like to discuss issues that need to be discussed in Madrid. I always say, it won't be the first time I've heard it. This morning's was different. It was different, we insisted on Madrid, on the one hand, and in the original we also urged the Basque Government, they crossed. If it's only in Madrid, it's only in Madrid, I like to sort things out, but, well, it's a matter of taste. You can bring here whatever you want, which we'll discuss later. Now, I insist, it is hard for me to put to the vote here something that is blatantly illegal in view of what has been said under European law. That you already knew about the five, but seeing what directive you said you saw, you have put the four, and that is what is being put to the vote here today. It seems to me that this goes a little further than the demagogy that we have witnessed in the debate, which I am not going to enter. I think it is well known what the positions of the different groups are regarding tax policies and the redistribution of wealth and the progressive taxation, etc., etc., beyond the mantra of some, and the tales that have told us of disabled elderly women who can only have a decent way out if they are reduced by VAT, then who has to help them will have really lost all that help, because there has been no money inflow. It is curious, this is like the one that distinguishes, in your case, where the electricity comes from. "No, I'm the one with the green." Yeah, sure, it kind of has that color. Anyway, beyond that, Mr. Otero, I don't know what you told me about "I was leaving (?) left." No, we don't like secrets, are they (?)). And we have already said it there, and we always say it, and therefore, moreover, we have asked that the royal decree law be processed as a law to be able..., that you can influence, that we can influence, and that we can all converge, ultimately. But, as the government here and there are absolutely legitimized to present its plans, are there some who have to pass through the Legislative Chamber and others who do not, or do you in Madrid present everything to you? How are you going to present everything? Man, the pediment tells me. The pediment, to the pediment, I have already told you before, to the pediment is dressed white, you know, besides this, with red or blue gerriko. And on that pediment, too, you have to play front, back, wide and txoko. That, or we stand in front of the frontispiece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u84	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. After discussion, we're going to vote as much as the original proposition of the Basque Groups of populars-Ciudados. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u85	So it's not accepted. Next up, we vote for the full value of the EH Collect Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 21; the contrary, 47; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u86	Not accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal as a parlamentary to Misto-Vox, about the digital skills of the third age. "The discussion and the final proposal." Team proposeer's turn. Ms Martín, who represents the Mistto-Vox team, has the word initiative to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u87	Well, it's fixed, it's back to work. Good morning to you all again. An increasingly digital and less analog world, an increasingly ageing society. Thousands of people to whom as a society we must acknowledge, respect and dedication are being left behind dependent on third parties to deal with the administration, to ask for an appointment with their doctor, to take money out of the bank, these are our groups of elderly people. But they are not the only people who are affected by what we call the digital divide. There are studies that define a certain profile of people suffering from this situation: isolated persons over 55 years of age with a low level of education and with a problem of job integration, you can even talk about groups with serious problems for their incorporation into the world of new information and communication technologies. There are countless studies on this issue, all of them also coincident. The digital divide is growing and growing despite the efforts of administrations, associations and entities of very different types and conditions. We haven't found a single pointer that goes in the opposite direction. They are the recognition of a problem that exists and deserves attention, proposals to solve it and concrete solutions. But we are going to focus on a close study, one carried out by Eustat, recently in addition, which gave figures to the things we already know. 58% of people over 65 years of age in the Basque Country do not use the Internet, i.e. more than 300,000 people in this region are neither Internet users nor have the resources or knowledge to (do it?)). And to these thousands of older men and women it would be necessary to add all the younger ones who under other circumstances also suffer these problems. And it is no small matter that more than 15% of the Basque population is exposed to the consequences of a growing digitisation of procedures that are less and less visible and that we are forced to do using a computer or surfing the network. This same Wednesday we were all able to read in El Diario Vasco a letter to the director of a person complaining that there is certain documentation that can only be delivered in the Administration via telematics, something that forces to resort to third people even paying. It is also on the agenda for campaigns by associations of older persons to demand their capacities, their right to know, and to demand a greater effort by the Administration to ensure equality between people also in this area of life. Faced with this reality, we have administrative decisions such as the one that denounces, as I say, the reader of El Diario Vasco and bets such as that made by Osakidetza in pandemic in the sense of encouraging the use of new technologies to relate to their patients, without taking into account the situation of those thousands of people who neither have computers nor navigates nor know how to do so. Moreover, and any of you can check it out, because Mrs. Sagardui is looking at me and I'm going to make it clear to you, anyone who calls your health center by phone will have to face a long message first in Basque, and I say long, then the second message in Spanish inviting you, among other things, to address the Osakidetza website if your call is related to COVID-19 – you know it is so – then yes, then you can press number one so that someone will answer the phone if you have to answer correctly. I've seen it myself because I've checked it out. I've seen older people around me who were already confused and lost and people who had to leave management until their children could do it for them. Here, if this were a normal parliament, where ideas are debated and no attempt is made to isolate a certain political adversary by rejecting each of its proposals, today the opposition parties would accuse the Basque Government of condemning isolation to a very large number of Basque citizens. Yes, citizens isolated because they are older and do not have the necessary knowledge to make use of new information technologies, also because they belong to groups already disadvantaged by other circumstances such as unemployment, precariousness, loneliness. So the question is clear: will we do something about it or will we continue to look elsewhere in our programmes to promote universal access to ICT? All praiseworthy programmes and actions, but which are proving to be insufficient. Today we are not here to change the world, of course not. But yes, to put forward concrete initiatives with which to solve day-to-day problems of many of the people living in this region. They know well, for example, in the Association of Retirees, Pensioners and Widows of the Four Towers, where every day they receive five complaints due to problems in getting a medical appointment. This is a population... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... Association of Retirees, Pensioners and Widows of the Four Towers, where every day they receive five complaints due to problems in getting a medical appointment. This is a sensitive population, it is the one that makes the most use of health resources. The one who has to have, in addition, a quick and simple access and has only obstacles. They are people who do not finish understanding, moreover, that you can evaluate your case through a screen. And the use of telematics is a clear bet from Osakidetza, in general from the entire Administration, a reasonable bet, but it should require a commitment from the Administration to avoid widening a growing digital divide and that we all know exists, all the people we sit in this House, also those who do not speak and debate with Vox, but know it. More edges. The covid passport, the one that children, family and friends download on the mobile phones of our elders, and who are then unable to find on the phone, do not find it. Even the use of tactile screens to register your entry into certain administrations, to ask for time for the advance payment of fines, including the declaration of rent, obtaining certificates, multitude of bank transactions. This is what our elders face daily, that for them this is an odyssey that they do not know how to go out alone. Technological development grows at a faster rate than the training of people, especially those born in an analog world, and the Administration is responsible for solving the problems it generates, continuing to try, correcting plans and programmes that do not deliver the desired results, and strengthening those that have been proven to move in the right direction. And that is the non-legislative proposal that we have brought to the debate, as is the amendment tabled by the People's Party-Citizens, an amendment that we share most of our postulates. What we propose in our initiative. I will tell you, in case one of those in the cordon is attentive, because it is likely that his scant democratic attitude will lead him not to read the proposals made by Vox. We urge the Basque Government to offer alternative solutions to digital in any connection with the Basque Administration for those with analogue training, for those who have serious problems in carrying out telematics operations. We urge the Basque Government to develop training modules for people affected by digital isolation, but not only to provide them with knowledge for the use of information and communication technologies, but also to prevent risks arising from the use of such technologies, such as scams, cybercrime, harassment, unlawful interference with people's privacy. We also urge the Basque Government to establish good practice protocols with financial institutions where the people to whom our GNP is directed, our elders, are faced with very great difficulties. And to these proposals we would also add other proposals put forward by the People-Citizens Group, which undoubtedly perfectly complement our approaches: to make available to those suffering from this digital isolation support and counselling services, whether by telephone or in person; to make available to any citizen free access to the Internet no more than five kilometres from their home; to review all protocols of citizen care in order to eliminate expressions that for hundreds of thousands of people are absolutely incomprehensible. But we believe that the formula for adding these commitments to private initiative should not be imposition or interference. Making contracts and relationships that introduce these concrete measures in their particular way of interacting with their clients, we believe that it is not something we should do if we believe, for example, in fostering collaboration, fostering dialogue, seeking common areas. That's where we agree. And I'm finishing up. Vox and Popular-Citizens put forward proposals to solve very specific aspects of a problem that affects a very important part of Basque citizenship, such as suffering from digital isolation. It must be borne in mind that we are talking about more than 15% of the population, more than 300,000 people, who for different reasons do not use the Internet and do not have the resources or the capacity to carry out telematics operations, which are more and more common, even compulsory, because it is the only option that the Administration puts at their disposal. It must be recognized that the Basque Government and other administrations in our region have made efforts for many years to prevent the digital divide from continuing to grow, but we must also accept that the desired achievements have not been achieved, and that this gap continues to grow and continues to leave many people behind. I believe that something must be done, something must be changed to make this situation better. Making proposals is our responsibility, it is also our responsibility to propose solutions. Now we will have to see what this House decides. Given so many misconceptions already in this legislature, it is likely that the four of the cordon reject our proposal for being from Vox, without stopping to think about the consequences for the elderly, and focusing exclusively on their propagandistic anxieties. But take one thing into account, ladies and gentlemen, which sustains the government. Many of the older people to whom they are going to say no today are PNV voters and PSOE voters. And as a retired man used to say a very short time ago: "We're old, but we're not idiots." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u88	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Chaus Group, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u89	Thank you, Madam President. The first thing we have to say today in relation to the PNL that about the digital skills of the elderly presents to us by the Mixed Group today, is that it seems appropriate to us. This is the first time that we have seen in the House this issue of the digital divide associated with the issue of the elderly, and it seems to us that it is a debate that proceeds, because it is evident the problem that many of our elderly people have, and I think it is also attuned to a growing social concern that we should not be insensitive to. The problem, moreover, is more serious than it seems, because the digital divide hinders the lives of our elderly, generates in them impotence, incommunicado and isolation, and accentuates social differences, an issue that should be of great concern to us. And we are also talking about a group that is particularly vulnerable, because to a large extent, it suffers from the great affection of our century, loneliness. Loneliness, which in some cases causes depression, and depression which, in many cases, triggers various health problems in them, because the digital divide increases in them the feeling of abandonment, discrimination and impotence. And it's a problem that doesn't affect a few people... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... The feeling of abandonment, discrimination and impotence increases in them. And it's a problem that doesn't affect a few people. According to the recent study by Eustat, most people over the age of 65 do not use the Internet, they are excluded from that world. The profile of these people also corresponds to that of a lower level of education, and they are unemployed or inactive due to retirement. In addition, almost half of people between 65 and 74 years of age using the Internet have low digital skills. That is, there are few who use it, and those who use it have difficulty in developing themselves on the Internet, for example, with some solvency. This has caused serious problems, for example, during the recent covid pandemic; especially because Osakidetza has spread the use of new technologies to communicate with citizens without taking into account this group, which was the most vulnerable precisely in this health emergency. These people, as we have all been able to live closely, have surely had serious difficulties in matters of utmost importance such as asking for a medical appointment, receiving a third dose of the vaccine, possibly obtaining the covid passport. Procedures that many of our elders cannot perform without external help, which are essential to them, and that external help does not all have. Our elders ensure that they feel abandoned by the institutions and discriminated against by the deployment of new technologies in their daily lives. This feeling they have should be echoed in this House. They feel overwhelmed by the lack of face-to-face attention, and ensure that any telematics management involves bumping into a wall. They line up in the street in order to be able to take money in a bank close to their home that increasingly reduces their hours of care and reduces their offices, they have to make numerous phone calls and endure long waits in order to be able to take an appointment in an outpatient clinic, they refuse to complain to electricity or telephone companies because it exceeds them, and they are victims of deception by telephone vendors who ask for confidential data, they compromise them with abusive contracts and they do not know what to do - they feel helpless. Many of them do not have computers or mobile phones, and few have Internet connection at home. Most people don't see the screens well, and some have no children to turn to. And it is that the simple task of installing in your home internet, managing a router, buying a smartphone and being able to configure it or use a browser alone is almost impossible for them. In addition, older people are especially sensitive to scams and digital attacks of all kinds. According to INE data, only about half of the people aged 65-74 who used the Internet last year have some kind of software or computer security tool on their devices, and 13% do not even know them. And to this social problem we are not devoting the time it deserves. We therefore believe that the initiative we are debating today is a good opportunity to put this matter on the table and to seek solutions. What does the legislation say about this? Royal Decree 203/2021 of 30 March on the performance and operation of the public sector in electronic means, in its paragraph 6 of the body of the decree prior to the operative part, states: "The satisfaction of the person concerned, therefore, in the use of digital public services, is essential in order to guarantee adequately his rights and the fulfilment of his obligations in relation to public administrations. Therefore, it is a priority to have easily usable and accessible digital services, so that the relationship between the person concerned and the Administration through the electronic channel can be made easy, intuitive, effective, efficient and non-discriminatory." The paragraph makes clear the need for administrations to have easily usable and accessible digital services, without any nuance that excludes from this spirit any collective or age group from the norm. This is a state law that applies here too. At an autonomous level, it is surprising, for example, that the Euskadi 2025 Digital Transformation Strategy does not make a single reference to the elderly. It is a sign of the extent to which we have forgotten this collective and the extent to which the digital divide in this collective is not sufficiently considered. In view of this situation, the Joint-Vox Group initiative seems appropriate to us, but it seems to us to be short. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to the whole of which we propose to remove from the Basque public administration all administrative procedures that make the citizen's care compulsory by digital or remote means - that is, those that are compulsory - and always have to offer face-to-face alternatives, but face-to-face alternatives that are not disincentive, that are not punitive, that are specially adapted for senior citizens or that have special needs. So it's okay that there's a digital option, but it's not the only one, that we don't force them to go through the ring to people who can't sometimes. We propose to include in all contracts from the Basque Public Administration with private companies the obligation to offer face-to-face alternatives specially adapted for senior citizens or with special needs in all procedures for the care and service of the citizen. As simple as putting it as a requirement in the competitions, and from now on we remember this group of vulnerable people who need that attention. In February of this same year, the Association of Retirees and Pensioners for Democracy has asked Ararteko to request from the administrations an increase in face-to-face care to avoid the digital divide that the elderly suffer. In their writing, they refer to Ararteko that all services must be guaranteed through face-to-face services of priority access to the elderly, and only digital tools are proposed in an alternative and, in any case, friendly way, with simple and direct access. That is why, in our amendment, we also call on the Basque Government to provide any citizen with a 24-hour, remote or face-to-face support and counselling service to assist them when they freely decide to conduct administrative procedures digitally or remotely, so that they also learn and become more and more autonomous. We believe that it is necessary for the Basque Government to develop the consumer regulations necessary for financial institutions and private health service providers to guarantee the possibility of quality face-to-face care covering all services to the citizen specially adapted for these elderly people or with special needs, to take the necessary measures so that all citizens can have free access to the Internet at points located at least five kilometres away; that it may seem... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... or with special needs, to take the necessary measures so that all citizens can have free access to the Internet at points located at least five kilometres away; which may seem a lot in a city, but which, really, in the rural environment can be an interesting solution. And we also ask you to review all protocols of service and care to the citizen, both of the administration itself and of the collaborating entities and companies, in order to eliminate all expressions, words, acronyms and formulas that may not be understood by a citizen with basic training, and replace it with simple explanations and without technological terms. Sometimes we don't even realize this, but there are words and expressions that many people, many of our citizens, find difficult to understand. Six concrete, simple measures that address the problem in a comprehensive manner. That they certainly do not exhaust the possibilities, because much more could be done, but that would help to alleviate in the short and medium term the anguish, abandonment and discrimination that our parents and grandparents suffer, to which this society owes not only respect, but all the attention and care that they have given us throughout their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gil. We're passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Podemos shouldn't be involved. Basque Socialists shouldn't be part of it. Not even the EH Collectors, not even the Euncierians. So, passing over to the answers, Mistata-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Well, history repeats itself. The endless story. As we can see, it prioritizes propaganda and image. None of the four in the cord should care about the problems of the elderly, who also know that they exist and that they demand urgent solutions. Well, then we'll see you running into the media arena to defend what you haven't defended today through dialogue and political debate. They won't be able to say that we've come up with an initiative to churn, because it's not churning. Nor will they be able to say that it is a repetitive initiative, nor an initiative without interest. Is that what they're gonna be based on? Because for our elders it is a matter of real interest. If we take a walk along our streets you will see the queues of older people in front of the banks, especially at the end of the month, when they get that deserved and low pension. If you have time and good, ask these people - as I have done - why are you waiting for these endless queues. Because they don't know how to get money out of cashiers. And, besides, they have to wait for the tail of the bank window for a nice or non-banker to give them the money they need in cash and which is theirs. That, when you don't tell them, very well said, to use the bank's APP to avoid these queues. And they answer naive: "the ap what?" But people can wait. It's okay. They continue to suffer to get an appointment with some doctor in Osakidetza, to perform numerous procedures, to obtain the covid passport, to maintain a normalized relationship with almost any administration in the Basque Country. You guys have a lot more important things to think about, don't you? Its political agenda, of course, does not include this initiative. I would like to thank the People's Citizen Group for its willingness to engage in dialogue and debate. Take our proposals seriously and amend them, even if they do not share the full content of their approach. That is what it is about, discussing and reaching agreements, and expanding consensus on these types of initiatives much more. They also demonstrate a commitment to the democracy and legality in force that PNV, PSOE, Bildu and Podemos do not have. And it may be good for some to continue to capture votes, which does not elevate their attitude above the consideration of absolutely entrepreneurship. And little more has to be said, because everything has been said. Moreover, for all four of the cords it is much more important to eat than to solve the problems of those who do not have access to the Internet, have no knowledge to do so, do not make certain efforts because there is no alternative to telematics or are forced to use third parties to do so. The problem exists. It is also well known which programmes and actions developed to date have not yielded the desired results. We will have to wait for the parties that make up the Basque Government to assume this as a necessary task, for them to at some point abandon their commitment to continue to do so, even if the achievements shine through their absence. The view that those who have the responsibility, in addition to informing citizens, have today decided that they have no interest in Parliament, that a reasonable proposal is rejected, because it is presented by a certain political group. That they have contributed to the normalization of a democratic anomaly like the one we are living in this legislature. Everyone here has parents, if we're lucky enough to have them, not everyone has them. How many times have they told us or their grandchildren "son, help me, I don't know how to get a date on the Internet" or "join the bank, they always talk to me in Chinese and I don't understand them." How many times? But sadly there are also many older people living alone, what are you going to tell them? Have an assistant hired for these procedures and paid for it? From the psychological point of view, the loneliness and isolation of many older people who came to the bank office with their books and made contact with other people, maintained dialogue with employees and other clients of the bank, who were also old acquaintances. And, unfortunately, our society seems to be aimed at isolating them even more and making their lives more difficult. This sad situation can and must be resolved little by little if a little interest in it is shown. The solution is possible and cannot wait. The "you come back tomorrow" of Larra's so certain article nearly 200 years ago should not be current in the times of technology in which we live. Vox, myself, we will continue to propose, pose and denounce as much as you do not want to debate, because that is our job. And to judge citizens, to judge these people over 55 years of age with a low level of education and with problems of employment integration; people living in isolation and those who lack sufficient training for the correct use of information and communication technologies, for their full incorporation into the digital world. You've decided to forget them. They have decided not to push any measures to solve their problems. You have decided that you can wait, that it is a priority to isolate Vox and, in this case, also the PP-Citizens. That'll be on your conscience. And what I'm telling you, now get out on the media wheel and give whatever explanation you want. Eskerrik asko... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... to isolate Vox, and in this case also PP-Citizens, that will be in your consciousness. And what I'm telling you, now get out on the media wheel and give whatever explanation you want. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Euscalal Popular-Ciudados Group from there. It's your word, Mr. Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u93	I simply trust that this semi-debate has been something like the introduction of this issue. And I also trust that we can soon have a more in-depth debate on this issue here, because it seems to me to be a very relevant issue. I believe that what we have said has highlighted the digital divide that hinders the lives of our elderly, is a subject that deserves much more attention than we are paying it, and is increasingly being demanded by society. We cannot leave our elders unattended in this matter, nor can we forget the problems that create them. I do not know whether the groups that have not participated in the debate consider that this issue is not important, because I do not really know how to interpret their non-participation. But we believe that concrete measures such as those proposed in the amendment are necessary. However, although they have not participated in the debate, I now give them the opportunity to send a message of support to the elderly by voting for the amendment, which we have tabled for that purpose. The initiative presented by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats seems appropriate to us, but we think it is somewhat incomplete. That is why we will be voting for abstention, and we hope that we will be able to delve further into this subject in subsequent debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the original text of the Mystata-Vox as well as the rest of the proposition. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; in favour 1; the contrary is 67; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u95	So it's not accepted. Then Euscalal Group Popular-Ciudados is going to vote for a full-term correctional vote on both points. There'll be no trouble, so I think there's two and four of them and the rest. Two and four on one side and the other on the other. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 74; in favour 6; in the oppositions 62; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u96	Not accepted. And we'll vote for the rest of it. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters 7; the opponents are 61; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-05.u97	So the rest hasn't been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I'm giving the whole meeting an end. The meeting ended at two-and-thirty-five.
