ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I inform you that the congressman Susana Corcue has inherited the vote in the spokesman of his team. First point in theme list: "Motion, Pazis Garcia Ortega EHGGE, introduced by members of the team, to protect the pay of the Basque Autonomy workers in the Eleganei in the Euscalum Rescalum to promote contractations within the contact camp. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Garcia, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u1	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u3	Undoubtedly, those times which we live in, as we have insisted on, and there is a great harmony in it, we have before us the future of uncertainty. It's not another crisis we're experiencing because it's much deeper that we're on the move. Economy, ecological, neurogetic, and danger of social cohesion that may arise from it. So it's no wonder a report from the Laboral Ark that has published it this month. This report states that the confidence of families in the EAE is a negative index and that it reflects uneasiness in the presence of autumn in the great inflation. According to this report, the families of this community make the first fall of pessimism, because they feel vulnerable to the great inflation, and see no escape from it. The inflation of historical Maximes, the high price of products essential to consumption, as of food, energy, or housing, including the increase of the mortgages, are the principal cares of the majority of the euscal society. As long as there's no climb or climb under the KPI, as long as it takes a scale of prices, it'll only bring a great part of the euscal society to speed up the process of impoverishing. The chief concern of the majority of the euscal society requires an answer to protect the wages of the workmen. And with that intention, the Basque Country is being introduced to this motion. The President told us at the general policy meeting that his proposal to face this situation is to wait until there is a truce in the state. A treaty between the States of which the sacrifice will be divided. The President, with his proposal, has abandoned the scope of collective negotiation, and is placed at the same distance between the state of the majority of the workingmen and the state of the corporation, including the companies which continue to divide the profits between the stockholders during the crisis. To block collective negotiations, to those who wish to apply them again as a recipe for retirement, it is absolutely necessary that they should give an answer from the sphere of politics. That's why I need you to make decisions from the company's responsibilities. But it's not a direct starting point to protect a proposal for basic pay, like the president did. The unions seek by a collective −negation to guarantee worthy wages, they seek to avoid being impoverished by high inflation, and seek to maintain the competency of the company in high employments of quality. On the other hand, while others block off the collective −negation, they continue to accumulate the wealth, even in crisis. And in front of that situation, you can't just be an audience. The permanent crises in which we enter are reminding us of the need to think about a new way of doing... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ...be empty. The permanent crises we are experiencing are reminding us of the need to think about a new way of doing politics; another way of dealing with problems. The current situation challenges us to ask what governments and what public policies Basque society needs. Because it's not time for old recipes, it's not time to stay in inertias of the past, even more unserviceable today. It is time to rethink new political and social priorities, and it is time to make decisions to protect people. But it is also necessary to make decisions that serve to change the direction of the economic system and put social welfare at the centre. To take decisions that are at the root of the problems raised, and also - of course - to change the public policies that have brought us here. Before the consideration of the social differences which cost us the expense of life, it is necessary to maintain the euscal society, to arrive at the future with firm and firm guarantees, without a break of society. And in that way, it's essential to protect wages. Our proposal to the Basque People in gathering counts the two indispensable major keys: the first was to take up the present economic reality of the majority of euscal workers, and, on the other hand, the undertakings to defend the support of the collective negotiation and to develop within it. Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal in our initiative is based on two fundamental premises: the first is to take into account the starting point with which the salaried majority of Basque society has to face strong inflation and price escalation, and this starting point is an unequal and unfair distribution of wealth, and the second fundamental issue in our proposal is the defence of the Basque collective bargaining framework, and to place within this framework the development of the necessary initiatives to protect wages. Regarding the first point, he said that it is characterized because society, the Basque working class, is already facing strong inflation and price escalation from an unequal and unfair distribution of wealth. An unequal distribution of wealth that, with and without economic growth, has grown in recent years. Today, as I told the lehendakari, we are still paying for the consequences of the PP's labour reform, in which wage devaluation was part of its main objectives as a recipe for the crisis. I am going to recall again today some of the data I gave in the inquiry to the lehendakari, because I think they give a clear picture of the situation from which most Basque workers have to face today the widespread rise in prices. CRL report: 70% of the Basque salaried population has their collective agreements without renewal, and therefore has their wages frozen. 20% of people receiving GIR are working people who have to supplement their low wages with this benefit. In the 21st century there was a wage gap of 22.6% between men and women. Foessa points out that 113,000 Basque households remain at risk of poverty once the costs of housing and supplies have been paid, leaving them with what they have to pay in the month. And in the face of this situation, who speaks of sharing sacrifices, or of income pacts, without asking the business class, without asking Confebask to address the central debate as is the sharing of wealth, is clearly betting once again on the policy of wage restraint, on the usual recipe, which is wage devaluation, and that, therefore, the crisis is paid by the and the usual ones. Recipes that, moreover, have not worked in other crises, and that can only present as results that the poor get out of the crisis the poorest and the richest rich, with a shift in wage incomes in favor of the income of capital, together with a precarious employment. And in our proposition, the second essential key is to defend the support of the collective negotiations, and to promote and develop our agreements in this circle, according to our socienomical reality and to the local syndicates and corporations. A collective negotiation is an important tool. By a collective negotiation, from the autonomy of union agents and corporations, the agreements between professions must be drawn to prevent the problems which present state produces great inflations. We need treaties in every respect, and in this, too. And that's just something to worry about. This demands a compromise, a projection, and a firm attitude of the Government, an arrangement of the professions necessary to allow us to take our own territory with a personal agenda. The first is to fix the minimum wage between the social and economic reality of our territory. We need the Government to actively promote, and through collective bargaining, an inter-professional agreement to set an inter-professional minimum wage for our socio-economic reality in the Basque area. The interprofessional minimum wage set by the Spanish Government for the whole State is clearly insufficient, because it is not in line with the shortage of life, nor with the average of our wages in this community, nor with the productivity levels of Basque companies which, according to Orkestra's data, have been increasing at very similar rates to those of the German average, above those of the European average, and even more so with the Spanish one. Arriola says that if you look well you can find apartments for rent for 800 euros in our community. After searching well, and finding this home, does anyone think that you can live with this rental and an interprofessional minimum wage of 1,000 euros? An interprofessional minimum wage set in the Basque area is necessary in order to meet the objectives of protecting the most vulnerable wage earner population, helping to reduce social inequalities and promote social cohesion, and helping to reduce the wage gap between men and women. Basque... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...to help reduce social inequalities and promote social cohesion, and to help reduce the wage gap between men and women. The minimum wage to establish within the Euscala camp would be sufficient for the government to comply with the commitments received in this year's budget. It's not about the government teams that are directing, it's not about that commitment. In front of the present blockade, collective negotiations and personal agreements, and encourage them to maintain their pay increase. Because wage devaluation is not the solution, it is the great social problem that we have today. And that great social problem is what this very week has led to the strike of the working people of Ipar Euskal Herria and the French state, to whom we show our full solidarity. The loss of purchasing power and wage devaluation also projected a future of low pensions and weakened the sustainability of the public pension system. And at the third point, we have to talk about the division of the gains. Besides taxing the revenues, we must discuss the distribution of this profit. In this economic situation, the corporations shouldn't divide the dividends. All the wealth which he creates should be kept in company, and the distributions of these decisions in the collective negotiation, and the means of improving his salary and his work conditions, and of conducting him to a productive investment. We need to talk about business profits and in the current situation, dividends should not be distributed among shareholders, and we should agree through collective bargaining on the most socially responsible destination, such as: rising wages, improving working conditions and productive investment in the company. Today, it is indecent that while workers are being asked to adjust their belts, many of these same companies are sharing profits among their shareholders. In conclusion, and as a summary, the initiative which the Basque People have presented today is responsible for the great concern of the Basque Society. In fact, the increasing increase of the prices is becoming more and more difficult to get to the end of the month. And I repeat, that in the present situation society requires the complication, commitment, and activity of this government. And you can't expect the state's rent agreement. This government cannot refuse to be active in order to face the questions proposed by a collective euscal negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Garcia Ortega of EH Bildu brings us today a motion, which I don't really know where to take it. I've had to read it several times, because I didn't believe what I was reading. It is a motion whose content seems to me at least frivolous. And I say this because none of your proposals have the slightest legal basis, the slightest legal sustenance. But I also believe that the three of us lack the least common sense. Look, before we start, I'll tell you that we share... That we are indeed in a crisis, that our economy and that of Europe as a whole is going through a delicate time, that inflation and rising prices are a consequence of this. And I agree that this particularly affects the most vulnerable people and those with lower incomes. But having said that, I also have to say that the motion seems completely disconnected from reality. It seems written on and for another planet. And in and out of time. And this is something that often happened to Bildu, who seem to live in a reality completely parallel to the current situation in Euskadi. And dreaming is fine, but without confusing dreams with reality. You propose that someone decide on an interprofessional minimum wage of their own in Euskadi. I suppose you mean, even if you don't say so, the Basque Government. And he forgets - as has already been mentioned on other occasions - that competition for this issue, like many others, is not autonomous. I mean, we don't live in your dystopian independent republic, but like all living beings in that universe, we're more interdependent every day. Interdependent of each other, as individuals, in institutions, between governments, between cultures, with Spain, with Europe and with the rest of the world. And to pretend to go in the opposite direction is to go against the evolution of humanity, Mrs Garcia Ortega. At least someone has to tell him once. With proposals like these you are going in the opposite direction to that of the rest of the world. And this at least is dangerous. In the second of your fantastic proposals you ask - I suppose once again the Basque Government - to guarantee wage increases. Look, we can't ask that even in relation to public service schedules. But we are going to pretend that the government is interfering in wage negotiations between companies and trade unions, which forces companies to increase wages when sometimes the market is shrinking, as is happening now, is simply causing companies to disappear. And so no minimum wage, no maximum wage, no update or no update; all workers unemployed and living in the public administration, who suspect is the model of society that you pursue. Model that is even clearer in the third of the proposals. In which it asks that private companies do not distribute dividends to their owners. For this reason I have no words, because it implies such a lack of knowledge of the economy and of the functioning of the market that I can only recommend to you to do one thing: to set up a company, even if it is small, even if it is a pipe station. I think this is something that everyone should do at least once in their life. If you have, then I don't understand this initiative, because perhaps in doing so you better understand what it means to be entrepreneurial, which means risking your heritage, which means leaving your skin working day... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... because perhaps by doing so you better understand what it means to be entrepreneurial, which means risking your assets, which means leaving your skin working day and night by solving the thousand bureaucratic problems that we sometimes create right here, the thousand problems with staff, the thousand problems with customers, with suppliers, with partners. So someone will come and tell you that you can't collect the benefits, if there are any. Because no one ever wants to take care of the losses. Or what do you propose to do with the losses? On just reciprocity, they should also be assumed by the Administration. Talk to them and ask them what they think of this occurrence. I'll tell you what they're going to tell you: that you stay with the companies, that you take care of carrying them out, that you take them forward, because they also want a free parrot from the Administration and their corresponding Moscow days. Your fantastic motion, Mrs Garcia Ortega, shows very clearly the model of society that you have in mind: a subsidized, state-owned society in which private companies simply do not take place. That which is no longer happening in the most communist countries on the planet: neither in China, nor in Russia, nor in Venezuela, is that what you want to bring here. Well, at least the citizens know it loud and clear. It is important that all Basque citizens know what you intend to do with our companies: cancel them, intervene them, discourage them. Businesses, Mrs. Garcia Ortega, don't like them and you notice a lot. Don't expect them to like you either. But I must tell you that, whether we like it or not, it is they who generate the wealth of a country, that wealth does not come out of the public administration, that it merely distributes what little is left to them after feeding their mastodontic structure, and that if there are no companies, the country simply goes to ruin. We therefore propose an amendment which, first of all, urges the Basque Government to intensify the processes and projects aimed at providing businesses with an attractive environment, stability and legal certainty in order to bring investment and facilitate economic activity so that our companies can compete with other regions of the planet, generating wealth and employment in Euskadi and thus maintain public services. Secondly, we call on the Basque Government to promote the culture of entrepreneurship, to intensify concrete entrepreneurship programmes aimed at increasing the number of new business projects in the Basque Country that generate jobs here for our people. Thirdly, we urge the Basque Government to intensify the processes of collaboration between our companies because, indeed, when they collaborate and join and make alliances, they are more powerful and better and they compete better. Collaboration between them, collaboration with other companies in other autonomous communities, with the processes of internationalisation that allow them to compete at European and global level and thus, I repeat, generate more wealth and more employment, which is the ultimate end. We also urge them to respect the freedom of businesses to make the decisions they deem appropriate to ensure their own survival and their stability and development, so that, I repeat, they can continue to generate wealth and employment for all. Because let us not forget that even the money we spend in this Parliament comes out of the taxes of individuals and businesses. We also urge trade unions and business associations to maintain a reasonable and sensible attitude in their negotiations, always safeguarding the survival and entrepreneurial development that generates wealth and employment. Finally, we urge Lanbide to step up and accelerate its reform process in order to rapidly increase its effectiveness in helping unemployed people to seek employment and provide them with legally established means of protection. These are six proposals diametrically opposed to the motion we are discussing today. While the motion bets on punishing businesses by making them bear the burden of the crisis - in which it seems, in its motion, that the crisis only affects the working class, when the reality is that the crisis affects the whole economy of Euskadi and the whole economy of Europe, and therefore when we talk about it only affects one part we are having the biased, partial and therefore incomplete vision - we propose to strengthen them and help them to continue generating wealth and employment. While the motion underlies a subsidized and state-owned model of society, we are betting on an entrepreneurial and dynamic model of society. While the motion calls on the Basque Government to intervene in business decisions, we defend its autonomy and call on the Basque Government to focus on its role of generating an attractive economic framework for investments that allow us to compete with other regions to raise capital and business projects that, I repeat, generate wealth and employment for all. I therefore believe that it is not necessary to make clear that we will vote against the motion, because we will do so with awareness that we are defending a model of society that is more modern, more open, more entrepreneurial and more attractive than the one underlying the original proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u6	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u7	Gil Vegas, that Russia is communist. I don't know who's the one who lives back then. But the truth is that if we come closer to reality, to the real reality of today, it is that indeed, as Mrs Garcia has described and as I think we all recognize, we all know, we are faced with a situation of open inflation, which results in a rise in the cost of living I would say that it is insufferable for the working class of this country and of our entire environment. The working class and the most vulnerable layers of our society are suffering harshly and especially the consequences of that high inflation. And now also because of the sharp rise in interest rates provided by the European Central Bank, which are having a strong impact on the rise in energy prices, raw materials, transport and seriously affecting the shopping basket we have to make every day. In our opinion, this situation is compounded by the harmful effects of neoliberal prescriptions applied over the past decades by international financial agencies and also by... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... for the pernicious effects of neoliberal recipes applied over the last decades by international financial agencies, as well as by various Western governments. Recipes that have weakened the public, as well as the productive fabric - which Mr. Gil Vega referred to -. It has been weakened, and it has strengthened, on the other hand, the large private capitals, which is currently developing a new speculative wave that accelerates the impoverishment of the popular sectors, and the devaluation, once again, of the wages of the working class. Inflation has been around 9%. Most people, who are hardworking people, owners of small businesses, also, in fact, it costs us 10% more to live. It costs us 10% more to live. Wages, on the other hand, continue to lose purchasing power. Specifically, they go up four times less than prices. A difference that intensifys the impoverishment, the impoverishment of the living conditions of working families in our country. It makes us poorer, in short. The loss of purchasing power of the working class occurs in the context of a country where wages are already enormously devalued, and they have progressively been losing weight in favour of capital incomes, something that we have been listening to for years to our coalition in this Parliament. It is not the same thing to lose purchasing power when you have a loose economic position, that when you get it just at the end of the month. And the latter is the situation of a large part of the population in our country as well. However, this precarious situation of workers contrasts with the enormous bonanza of big capital. In 2021, IBEX 35 companies had a profit of €58.5 billion, equivalent to 2.5 million average wages. The five big banks won 20 billion, and the electric banks had profits of 6.5 billion. Record benefits, once again, that were used for managers to increase their income by 20%, 13 times more than the agreements went up in the same year. It is therefore absolutely necessary, in our view, to bet and to put a clear pressure on a widespread rise in wages, which will enable working families to cope with this uncontrolled rise in prices. An increase in wages is needed to enable working families to meet expenses and maintain their economic resources. To raise wages in a general way and in line with the rise in the cost of living is not only necessary, but also possible. Business profits have not been affected, and in our country, capital incomes, today continue to increase their difference with labour incomes. It is those who work, who lose the most, once again, with this situation of crisis caused by inflation. And in this scenario, however, the employer is blocking much of the collective bargaining. It is opposed to increasing wages and including wage review clauses, not to mention the thousands of workers who are today without a collective agreement in Euskadi - more than half. When it has also become clear that wages are not responsible for this breach. On the contrary, almost 85 % of the increase in prices is due precisely to business profits. Nor are employers wishing to recognise at the negotiating tables the victories of trade unions in recent years, and specifically in relation to labour reform. They are resisting the application of acquired rights, ultraactivity, the prevalence of sectoral agreements, trying to resist these changes operated by labour reform, through the atomization of negotiations, and the refusal to negotiate with the organization... with trade union organizations. At the same time, we have been seeing for months how they once again strongly oppose the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage, opposing, by the way, a central government agreement widely supported by society. We ask them: where is the business hecatombe that was to be produced according to the employer, with the important rise of the interprofessional minimum wage that the Spanish Government promoted a few months ago? We were then under the auspices of the employers, the same as Mr Gil Vegas has now been under the auspices of us: the collapse of the companies, all the workers in unemployment, and, ultimately, the collapse of the economy. We have seen that this is not so. On the contrary. The significant increase in the interprofessional minimum wage has been good, especially for thousands and hundreds of thousands of workers throughout the State, for thousands of workers in Euskadi, and has been good for the economy. And companies have not sunk for it. We are now faced with wage moderation, and they seek to re-frighten us with the pernicious effects of wage increases. Actually, they're just defending their interests. They only want the crisis to be paid by the workers to maintain their profit rates once again. Faced with this, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita believes that there are two possible political positions: either with capital, or with the workers. The political and economic right we are seeing it once again, it opposes wage increases, and also any measure that means greater public intervention; progressive taxation and redistributive policies that ease working families from the sharp rise in prices and funding we are suffering. The forces of the right and the employer again show themselves as the greatest defenders of banking and capital, marked by their parasitic, speculative and rentist character, alien to the interests of the social majority. I mean, outside the general interest. Of course, Elkarrekin We can-United Left does not pretend to be... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... other than the interests of the social majority; that is, other than the general interest. Of course, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita does not pretend to be an impartial agent; it pretends to be an active agent. We do not confuse respect for collective bargaining with turning political organizations and political actors into mere spectators of what is actually a class struggle. We believe that the demands of the workers must be supported. We think - we have said it many times - that parliaments can clearly stand in this direction. In this respect, the amendment that we are presenting today to the Basque Parliament, and in this regard we are also acting in the central government, where the Minister of Labour has no problem in saying clearly that the workers are, at the moment, absolutely right in their demands. And that's not interfering with collective bargaining. Given the situation of rising prices and corporate benefits, strong wage devaluation and employer blockade, we believe that it is time to move to action in defence of wages, new social and labour rights. That's why we have to raise wages and we have to guarantee rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u8	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u9	Thank you, Madam President. From the initiative presented to us by Mrs García, EH Bildu, I tried to make a reading to look for points where, apparently, we could have coincidences, and I found two in which, apparently, we can have coincidences: one, which is in the field of social dialogue and collective bargaining, where we have and proceed to agree on measures to protect the wages of workers, and to prevent, for example, an exceptional situation such as the present one ending up supporting a wage devaluation of workers; and a second element, which is the proactive attitude that the institutions and, specifically, the governments must have in support of the search for such agreements. But, along with those two points that we can apparently agree on, on your initiative there is also a difference that I think is important. And to sum it up very briefly and not waste time, I will tell you that this difference is that we think that we are already doing so, both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government at the hand of Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia. And you, as it turns out, understand it's not like that. And this might seem like a simple difference of perception, I think it actually hides wider dissensions. And that's what I'm gonna try to explain. Because I believe that, really, you with this initiative are talking about something else. And I'm going to go for it. We share, the Basque Socialists share that the level of government involvement has to be total. But a proactive attitude on the part of the Government cannot aim to end up replacing what must be the action and functions of the social partners. That's the limit. And there's the crux of the matter, because I believe that you, when you talk about leadership, are confusing the word to lead by replacing. And I am already telling you that we are not prepared to lead any assault on the roles of the social actors entrusted with social dialogue and collective bargaining, because for the socialists and I believe that for anyone on the left collective bargaining and social dialogue is something that is unnegotiable, unnegotiable. And, in fact, it is something fundamental that we have focused on during this legislature, reversing the labour reform of the People's Party, which, among other things, relegated - as you know - the collective negotiation and the role of social dialogue to nothing. And in this we have turned the socialists, together with our fellow government in the Spanish government of Podemos, to reverse it. Therefore, we are not going to participate in any assault of the functions entrusted to the social partners. I therefore believe that the fundamental element that separates us has to do with the respect for the autonomy of these social actors. And I will give you the clearest example, which we find on your own initiative. If we go to your initiative, you say that "the Government adopts the leadership and commitment to promote interprofessional agreements between economic and trade union actors". Well, so far well, because the Government is already doing so, both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government - I say again -. But then you tell those social actors what these agreements should be, and you say, "in the following areas." And it does, by the way, take advantage of the classic political claim of EH Bildu, which is an interprofessional minimum wage of its own for Euskadi. By the way, I'm going to tell you, this is not the same as it is in the budget agreement. If you like, I read it: "The Basque Government acquires commitment in all the frameworks of employment and social dialogue, defending and encouraging an SMI in collective agreements that is proportional to the average income of the Basque Autonomous Community". In other words, an improvement by agreement of the minimum wage of the sector, which is different from an interprofessional minimum wage of its own for Euskadi. That would never have been signed by a government with the Socialist Party. And, of course, if you tell the social partners what the result has to be, is that respect for collective bargaining? Is that respect for social dialogue? I don't think so. If you ask me whether the Socialists agree that the Basque Government must be proactive in the search for agreements between the social partners, I will tell you: of course I do. If you tell me that this commitment must also be made public, I will tell you: of course, so too. But that's what we're already doing. Look, I'm going to give you a few examples... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...and besides, does that commitment have to be public? I'll tell you, of course, too. But that's what we're already doing. Look, I'll give you a few examples. I've brought a few here, because we're not going to get too close either. The last three, four weeks. Mendia tantea employers and trade unions to relaunch social dialogue. The Vice-Counsellor, Vice-Lehendakari and Labour Counsellor begin this Thursday the round of bilateral start-up meetings with the impact of inflation on wages as the main item on the agenda. Mendia warns that the exceptional situation should in no case result in a wage devaluation. The Vice-Lehendakari and Labour and Employment Adviser, Idoia Mendia, has transferred to the social and employers' agents that the exceptional situation, due to the complicated context, should in no case result in a wage devaluation. Mr Hernandez, Yolanda Díaz is not the only one who says this. Mendia argues that there should be no wage devaluation in Euskadi. I think we will also agree on this. The vice-lehendakari urges employers and trade unions to reach agreements to renew agreements in their round of start-up meetings. Of course, if we agree, then, to enhance social dialogue and agreements, to protest against wage devaluation, and that it is a public commitment of the Government, I will now ask you a question: at what point in the equation to enhance social dialogue and agreements between social actors EH Bildu believes that it is good and necessary to tell those social actors what the end result of that dialogue has to be. Well, honestly, I think this is quite paternalistic and dangerous. Faced with that, we socialists are strong advocates of social dialogue. The vice-lehendakari and the vice-counsel begin each course a direct round with the social partners, where they have moved their position in favour of the wage update and their willingness also to mediate when they are required to do so. Therefore, there is a proactive, non-passive situation. Socialists believe in collective bargaining as a nuclear element of labour relations, and agreement on the conditions under which wages, health, training and also business progress must be ensured. And the Government cannot and should not interfere in that area. I remind you again, that is what Mr Rajoy did with his job reform, which we have reversed. This Government has shown not only its respect but also its support for this bilateral area, which is reflected in the signing of the representative sectoral agreements, which are also signed by the different representative unions. And, moreover, it lends itself to mediation of conflicts when both parties so require, which, as you know, is what the law imposes. The clearest example, Tubacex. And we are committed to strengthening the tripartite sphere as a guarantee of social partners' participation in public employment policies. We are talking about the Social Dialogue Bureau, the Lanbide Board of Directors, the Osalan Council, the ESC and the CRL. By the way, whenever I go up here, I appeal to the unions that have a chair waiting for them in these organs, to occupy it. I believe that it is not sustainable for them to occupy their place in similar organs of the state and have their chair unoccupied here in the Basque sphere. And beyond the limits of competition, Mrs Garcia, there are also attitudes, and the Basque Government will support and, if required, will encourage those who promote the agreement between the parties. And there is an autonomous interprofessional agreement since 2017, which is a land that employers and trade unions can continue to explore if they so decide, and if not, because we also respect the provincial level. In short, and to be clear, the Socialists argue that the current situation of uncertainty cannot go through a wage devaluation that impoverishes workers. The Government of President Sánchez and the Basque Government, with the help of Vice-Lehendakari, Idoia Mendia, are deploying all the capacities within their power in the field of labour relations and the promotion of conditions of employment that improve their quality. And we are doing so within the legal framework of labour relations, giving due account to this Parliament, in addition to having the agreement of the parliamentary groups for the adoption of strategies and plans, and above all, from scrupulous respect for the role and functions entrusted to the social partners in social dialogue and collective bargaining. In accordance with these functions, it is the social partners who must agree on how efforts and benefits are distributed in sectors or enterprises, as is being done in the agreements that have been signed with different solutions and with the signatures of all representative unions. And they know that if both sides want government mediation, we will be deeply involved. That's what everyone knows we're willing to do. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u10	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u11	Thank you, chief of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Today we are discussing this motion with Mrs. Garcia, in consequence of the interaction of the President, in order to enforce agreement with the salary of the employees of the Autonomia Erdigo. Mrs. Garcia told us through her interference that she had been very attentive to the general political reunion. I'm not so sure. What is the key idea in this debate today, what was the key idea in the inquiry, what is the thesis, what was the thesis in your inquiry, Mrs Garcia. The proposal made by the Lehendakari is disappointing. That's what you were defending. What, what are the pillars that support this thesis: two forgotten, according to you. The lehendakari forgets two major issues. The Lehendakari does not take into account the reality of Basque wage citizenship, and the Lehendakari denies with his proposal the Basque framework of collective bargaining. But you, Ms. Garcia, instead of setting with solid arguments the two pillars that support your thesis, do not make a list of unrelated data, systematically repeat the same two pillars without arguing them, bring us examples that do not conform to what intended and use very basic and handy twists of the type "leave the old recipes, Mr. lehendakari", we go, as today. And he ends up doing his questioning, and he tells us: "We ask the lehendakari to know the intentions – know the intentions – of the lehendakari to push agreements in our Basque framework of labor relations"... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... we ask the lehendakari to know the intentions, to know the intentions, of the lehendakari to promote agreements in our Basque framework of labor relations. Answer the lehendakari and tell him you speak of intentions and I will speak of facts. He recalled that, within the framework of the Basque labour relations framework set out in article 12 of the Gernika Statute, the Government was deploying all its capacities to promote employment and improve its quality. And the lehendakari refers, facts of these concrete actions that this Government is already carrying out: strengthening the social dialogue table, expanding the workforce of the Labour Inspectorate with its management plan, wage gaps, reducing it – it has reduced it from 22 to 18 –, implementing the new equality law - which is extending these equality plans to businesses of more than 50 workers -, the employment strategy 2020 - developed with the social and economic actors and agreed here -, the Strategic Employment Plan 2024 - presented here too -, the Basque employment law, which will reach us this year's draft law, Lanbide Hobetzen, order the management, creation of a network of employment innovation centres, support for special employment centres, promotion programmes, renewal programmes, care for high demand sectors, new employment niches, training in digital competition. And it ends the lehendakari by telling you here, Mrs Garcia, some of the initiatives that the Basque Government has launched. Facts, Mrs. Garcia. You ask him about intentions, and this government, the lehendakari, show him, give him facts. And why this? Because the intentions about the impulse to the Basque framework of labor relations you already have, you have them in writing. They have been in their possession since 13 October 2020, on pages 35 to 39 of a document entitled Government Programme 2020-24. This Government is aware of the fulfilment of those intentions which, by the way, had the form of commitments. Mrs. Garcia, I'm very concerned about that control initiative. Do you not know the government program of this government that you control or intend to control? This is very worrying. Mrs. Garcia, you have to move from the 2020 screen to the 2022 screen. They're giving him facts that materialize those intentions. And besides, two Fridays ago, in full control, they gave him a new commitment. The commitment of this Government to continue to promote the Basque labour relations framework, to continue to evaluate and expand programmes to improve working conditions, wage protection and the creation of quality employment opportunities. The attitude of the Government, of this Government, will continue to be to support and, if required, encourage agreements between the parties. As Mr Rico said, it is up to economic and social actors to agree on how these efforts and benefits are shared in these sectors. As is being done in the agreements that are signed. His pillar one collapses. It is not true that this Government, this lehendakari, does not take into account the reality of citizenship. This Government is concerned about this reality, but also improves it with its action. With these objective facts, with these objective facts, over the past two years it has created structural elements that help to improve working conditions, wage protection and the creation of employment and quality opportunities. Its argumental pillar two: the lehendakari denies with its proposal the Basque framework of collective bargaining. It is true that the Lehendakari mentioned in this Parliament the state rent pact that the president of the Spanish government announced in March at the Congress of Deputies. It is true that it has described this proposal as a laudable and desirable effort, without concealing the difficulty of the challenge and talking about the need to meet a number of basic conditions. Do you not consider that an income agreement within the framework of collective bargaining in the current situation is socially and economically desirable? To our parliamentary group which generate areas of stability and certainty to help minimize the inflationary spiral that occurs if agents act uncoordinated, it seems to us that it is beneficial to overcome the current situation. And these dynamics are in line with the proposals being made by the European Commission. And make it very clear, Mrs Garcia, that if these areas of beneficial stability and certainty can be generated, this does not imply, that does not mean, that Euskadi loses the capacity and the instruments to complement and adapt collective bargaining in our own reality. It certainly implies the opposite. We will continue to have the Basque framework for labour relations, we will continue to have tripartite negotiating instruments and forums such as the Social Dialogue Table. Mrs. Garcia, your second pillar is also crumbling. Lehendakari neither denies nor renounces the Basque framework of labour relations. On the contrary: it calls for the consolidation of this space, as it understands that it is the best way to strengthen our own framework. You thought you had two pillars that supported your thesis of disappointment, when you don't actually have any. In that full control the lehendakari also detailed the programmes that the Government has put in place to reactivate the economy and employment in the current situation. They are channelling social aid to businesses, self-employed and people, especially to the most vulnerable. Tax relief measures have been implemented for individuals and families; the six measures in late July. They're still doing it with the new Hitzartuz program. An impact of 650 million euros to alleviate this situation. This Government continues with concern and attention to the development of events and announces that it will remain ready to implement new measures that alleviate the difficulties of families and businesses. Mrs Garcia, you presented this government with an inquiry, that is, an initiative to control its action. Interpellation that you built starting on the roof. Probably because it was designed, designed, to finish, to fit that eventual end of the bench of a football selection. That's why you don't react in your second turn, after the lehendakari answered you with facts. It doesn't react because you have your second part prepared... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... in his second shift, after the lehendakari answered him with facts. It does not react because you have your second part prepared. No, no, reacts to this reality of action by the Government. In short, a very weak control initiative, to which the Government, the lehendakari, responds with a responsible exercise of self-control. Self-control in the sense of a government controlling itself, as you did not perform your control function. You, that day, didn't do your job. And in that transit, which often takes place in this House, between the function of control and the function of impulse, between the question of that Friday and the motion resulting from today's question, and in accordance with that basic principle of "if there is no killing", question, "there will be no potato", motion, we also find a very weak motion text. An initiative with two pillars - his own -, interpellation and motion, very disappointing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u12	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mythto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, good morning, everyone. Bildu presents us today with a motion that shows his concern about the purchasing power of Basque workers due to the economic crisis we suffer. Firstly, we must say that the current situation derives in large part from the energy crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, and that it has revealed all the weaknesses of our energy model. A model in which, in addition, Bildu has a lot of responsibility, as it has consistently opposed any model of energy production that could reduce our energy dependence. We remembered him in a previous plenary, with his "Nuklearik ez" and his "Fracking ez". They are therefore responsible for the current situation; that is, for those dusts, these sludges come. It is therefore right for the people of Bildu to tear their clothes and show their concern for the wages of the workers, but perhaps they should review their past and present models of energy, which are undoubtedly those who have condemned us to an dependence that we are currently paying, in addition to the price of gold. Bildu asks us, at the first point of his motion, that the Government establish an interprofessional minimum wage of its own; the Basque Government. It is clear that this proposal is a simple toast to the sun, since the competence to regulate the SMI is exclusive to the State, and this is also reflected in the Workers' Statute. Therefore, a point is raised in this motion knowing that it is unattainable, and that it is an empty claim without any route. They want to look like initiative and concern for the problems of Basques, that is, with measures that are simple fireworks. In their second point, they ask the Basque Government to guarantee the wage increases necessary to compensate for the increase in the CPI. On this issue, in the face of its populism and the free bar criterion, we ask for prudence. Prudence, because agreements must be reached taking into account the increase in the CPI but also the increase in production costs that the economic crisis is causing for companies. The business sector is suffering first-hand from the effects of the crisis, and therefore all parties involved must have a minimum of flexibility in the negotiations. It must be borne in mind that the survival of many of these companies hangs on a thread in the face of a winter that presents itself to them really raw. And don't lose sight of the fact that if the business side goes badly, the working side will go too badly. We understand labour relations as a whole, of which entrepreneurs and workers are part, and not as stagnant parts, faced permanently. As long as they are not able to understand that both are part of the same ship, and that all must conform to the current situation, the solutions will be very difficult to achieve. In any case, our model to compensate for the increase in the CPI does not reside in the business part: it resides in the institutional part. The institutions, as of today, are the main beneficiaries of the increase in prices: the revenue forecasts for the current financial year and the coming year show record figures. The deflation of the IRPF, approved by the government of Mr Urkullu, is clearly insufficient, even for its governing partners. In order to alleviate the situation in which many Basques live, a tax reform is needed to enable citizens to have the money in their pocket. And a reform that also helps the bad business sector. Inflation is at 9%, but this is somewhat misleading. First-necessity products, those that we cannot dispense with in our daily lives, have increased by 20, 25, and even, in some cases, by more than 30 %. The problem is that the middle class, which represents the large stock exchange by IRPF, is becoming poorer, and its impoverishment is dragging the rest of the country. Asphyxiating the middle class means progressively sinking a country's economy. The strength of any state passes by having a strong middle class, and its weakening or even its disappearance, as happens in the countries governed by the ideological orbit of Bildu, implies a widespread impoverishment of its population. Therefore, our recipe goes by strengthening and revitalizing that large bag of taxpayers, who are the ones who bear the tax burden that allows us to maintain our state of well-being. Either we relieve the citizens of economic asphyxiation or we run the serious risk that this situation will seriously impoverish us as a country. Finally, they argue that companies do not share dividends, and that they are distributed among workers. Look out for the dice. Look, gentlemen of Bildu, perhaps you know the Basque business fabric. He is also aware that 95% of Basque companies have fewer than ten workers, and that unfortunately many of them simply cover expenses and you know it. But even if they had small benefits, it won't be us who say... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...many of them just cover expenses and you know it. But even if it had small profits, it will not be us who say that the risk they take in starting and maintaining a business should not even have a minimum reward in the form of profit. We think that whoever risks must have a prize, and that whoever contributes to generating jobs and wealth must have even a small benefit – I think this is a common sense. Perhaps you are referring to the big corporations, but the workers belonging to this type of business have highly beneficial working conditions, loaded with extras, complements and social benefits that the small entrepreneur cannot offer to his workers. And the dividends to which they refer are often distributed among small shareholders, savers and even pensioners who supplement their income with the above-mentioned dividends. The aim of the left is always to put an end to the corporate benefit in line with its idea of ideological collectivization. A model that inevitably leads to an increase in the economic and social gap and irremediably to widespread impoverishment and a subsidiary population. The left bets on economic confiscation and are simply enemies of progress, development and, above all, of individual freedom. On the contrary, our model is committed to promoting entrepreneurship, activity, corporate profit and that money, as I said to you, is in the citizens' pocket. We believe in a model of freedom that brings us greater wealth and benefit as a society. They were talking about that since the increase of SMI Spain is going to be wonderful. Well, I'll remind you: Spain has more than 77,840 companies less than before the pandemic, so destruction is evident. And in addition to these companies - I will remind you - that they are not large multinationals, most of them are micro-symes. Micropymes of less than six workers, who are the ones who fail to reach everything you force them to reach. In fact, Spain is the second country in the European Union where more companies broke down in 2021, behind Romania, second country. And the figures that are stalling in 2022 are also not flattering, as it is expected that 2022 will end with the closure of approximately 300,000 companies. I also guarantee you that none of them were big multinationals, they will be small self-employed and entrepreneurs who just arrive at the end of the month. Why? For one simple reason: because the Spanish minimum wage is determined politically and is not praised for all. It is completely homogeneous, both by sector and by location. And this isn't fair. Why? Because they are required the same pay hike from a small SME with two workers in charge of them as from a large multinational. This produces a great imbalance in our productive sector. And that's something that the PSOE government and Podemos do. This inequality that they are generating and that is actually harming small SMEs - as I say - is. Look at the business closing balance sheet and you will see that the real sufferers and pagans of all this government management are small SMEs with less than six workers in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u14	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u15	Good morning. Well, you're going to reverse the proposal of the Basque Country with the government parties and PP votes. Not the EH Collector's proposition. And the question is: What's the government proposition? We don't see what the government proposal is in the correction of PNV and PSE. On behalf of the respect for collective negotiation in your corrections, you are justified in doing nothing to the government, not doing anything to your own diary. You mention the Social Court Table. In my opinion, the government makes bad use of the Society Table. In this parliamentary interview, you're turning this table into a tool for the government defense against the man who criticizes the jobs policy for the government. I don't think he's doing the Socialist much good. What are the reasons for rejecting Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal? Where are the disagreements? Is it the defence, Mr Aiartza, that we make of the Basque framework of collective bargaining? Is the government still thinking of a state income pact? Because you'll also know that this option was discarded in the state, there's not going to be an income pact because the CEO has punctured the ball. So the question is, what are we going to wait for now? Is Garamendi, CEO's president, changing his mind? What are the differences with the agreements? What about the interprofessional minimum wage? Mr. Rico tells us it's a historic claim by Euskal Herria Bildu. Of course, but it is also a commitment from the Government, which Mr Rico has read to us, but he has not told us what he has done. Nothing. And in case even this compromise, even in the terms that have been read, has been mentioned in the amendment and is not included. Activate collective bargaining and avoid wage devaluation. It's true. Idoia Mendia has said it over and over again. But today in the amendment that you have presented neither trace. With regard to the current situation that no corporate dividends are distributed which the PP considers to be so dramatic, to say that this is something that the Government of Spain has already done, which conditioned the aid in the ERTEs by not distributing dividends. This has been done by the Government of the Canary Islands, which has also added that the salaries of managers are not increased either. So, where's the problem? Where is the problem of the subjects we have raised? And I think I'm right if I tell you that this government's problem is called Confebask. Its problem is that taking the lead in collective bargaining to approve, to promote the necessary agreements with absolute respect – of course Mr. Rico – to the autonomy of collective bargaining, demands to challenge Confebask, and they are not for the work. Because Confebask as a business organization still doesn't know what his commitment to this country is. We only know that before the CPI and wage rise, no; that the tax reform to pay those who have the most, no; that the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, no. And I believe that in the face of this attitude, the political organisations that make up the Basque Government before Confebask are zero. And I explain why. There's... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... and I believe that in the face of this attitude, the political organisations that make up the Basque Government before Confebask are zero. And I explain why. There is a part of this government, which is the non-moving PNV, which proposes rent pacts in the state, because it can be comfortable in Confebask's exhibitions. And there is another part of the government, the Socialist Group, which may not be so comfortable in Confebask's positions, but which does not move either, nor does it do anything, because it wants to remain in the government. Result: zero. Zero in favour of developing initiatives to protect wages and lift the veto that Confebask has today in the Basque collective bargaining. In front of this situation, doing nothing is not an option. That's why we want to raise the sign of active hope from the Basque People. And even if the government's behavior is hopeless, we won't get down in despair. As many of the workmen in the North Basque Country and the French State have not fallen, so they strike and go out of the streets this week. For what has been said, we will not vote for PNV and PSE's correction. We will also vote against the amendment tabled by the representative of PP-Citizens. Mr Gil, your amendment is a declaration of love for the business class, but you forget that within these companies, which as you say so much wealth they create, there are people. There are a lot of people working, which is the one that generates wealth, and it's a detail that you've forgotten, and I think that's living on another planet. But in any case, I want you to know that Euskal Herria Bildu is concerned about the viability and future of Basque companies. A viability and a future that must be based on quality employment and a fair sharing of wealth - of which you do not want or hear about -. And that is why we think it is probably necessary to open the debate on the new business model for this near future, in the terms approved by this Parliament, in the initiative promoted in this House by Arizmendiaretaren Lagunak Elkartea. But it is not the subject of this debate today. And to the amendment of Podemos-Izquierda Unita we will vote in favour, because there is a very important coincidence in its approach and in ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Garcia Ortega, how will I forget that there are people in companies. No, no, companies are people. I don't know what idea you have of what a company is, but without people, there's no company, there's no other possibility. It's the people themselves. But all the people themselves, not just a part, that forgets you. Anyway. Mr. Hernandez, I'm surprised you didn't use this good opportunity to apply your... No more than he once did, his favorite neo-liberal qualifier. Anyway, I'm sorry I can't call you a neocommunist, because unfortunately in the communism that you defend there's nothing new. What I meant to say was that... Neither communist Russia, well, nor China. Only officially, because they have actually entered into the capitalism of Hoz and Coz. I mean, it's his completely obsolete model all over the world. It is a model that has already failed all over the world and that, however, some nostalgics continue to claim as the lost archadia. I invite you to question your paradigms, and simply observe where the world is going. Maybe he didn't like what he saw. Obviously, we will vote against it. It's not time for old recipes. Garcia Ortega (...). Indeed, it is not time for old recipes. What you apply from our point of view are old recipes. Mr. Aiartza and Mr. Rico. Your proposal and your intervention have seemed to me lukewarm, the truth. In the end, they merely express their respect for collective bargaining and their support for social dialogue. I have almost had to make a clearer defence of the role of the Basque Government than you have done in the face of an attempt by Bildu to alter the role of the Government in economic matters. But come on, your proposal, which is neither cold nor hot, does not seem bad to us, although it seems very insufficient to us. That is why we will abstain. But we cannot stop insisting on the main message and making a call to responsibility. If we want Euskadi to react to its economic decline, if we want to have a future with a rich and living business fabric that generates wealth and employment, if we want our young people to have decent job opportunities here without having to leave, we cannot continue to attack companies and entrepreneurs day and day, and put on their shoulders all the burdens that occur to us, and less at this time of crisis, when what they need today in this Parliament is clear support measures that will enable them to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u18	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Team Representative. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u19	Thank you. I'll check the number of times I call Mr. Neoliberal... Mr. Gil Vegas, because I'm going to be getting a little loose for telling you just once. Look, I'm gonna tell you something. You advise me to review what you have called my paradigms, and do so also by observing the world. I check not my paradigms, but my ideological convictions every morning. I'm totally serious, Mr. Gil Vegas, every morning, you've been reviewing my ideological convictions for many years. And I do it precisely under the method that you recommend me. Watching the world. And observing a world every day, when I review my ideological convictions, I reaffirm myself in them. A world where most of the wealth is still in very few hands and where most people - workers, by the way - continue to live in poverty, and continue to be exploited every day. That's why I restate my convictions, not by an ideological dogma written by that... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... in poverty and continue to be exploited every day. That is why I reaffirm my convictions, not by an ideological dogma written by that or that other thinker at a time of the 19th or 20th century. That's why I restate my convictions. And today in the face of this debate, my coalition defends that the working class in Euskadi urgently needs a widespread rise in wages. And there are enough tools in the legislation that we have in this country so that those companies that really have economic problems do not sink into those wage increases. And you know it perfectly well. And when you say that we generalize and that there are companies that are also going wrong, you know perfectly well that in this debate we must generalize, we cannot talk about each of the companies in particular. But the truth is that the benefits - and must be generalized, obviously - the benefits are not being felt and that the income of capital in Euskadi today, today, October 20, 20, 2022, is increasing relative to the income of the workers. And there's a lot of talk about the famous Income Pact. But the only thing we really know about the income pact is that it's going to involve wage moderation once again. Nobody tells us how they are going to put the entrepreneurs and the big capital on their side in this Income Pact. Nobody tells us that because it's not going to happen. Because the only thing that hides behind certain income pacts is once again wage moderation and that it is the workers who are on their backs because they have... pay for the crisis and make a mattress for the situation we are living in. That's why we... Yeah. I'm glad you say Mr. Rico to advise you, too. I have heard many times that political parties, but also parliaments and governments, must stand. I'm glad that's the way it is. You can vote for our amendment if you really believe that is the case. Because, when Mrs Mendia says that there should be no wage devaluation, she is actually talking about the contents of collective bargaining. And it seems very good to me, because I have always argued that having those political positions is not interfering with collective bargaining. Trade unions and employers are already going to talk and they are going to come to fruition in collective bargaining. But I think we need, in this case, political organizations, parliaments and also governments that are clearly positioned on the part of those who are suffering once again the consequences, in this case, of that inflation, which is the bulk of the population that remains workers in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u21	To start with the end and why you missed him, Mr. Hernández. Would you put this amendment to Mrs Yolanda Díaz? No, right? Well, with this I've already answered everything. With this I've already answered everything. No, no, Because you know - and that is why the tone of this intervention - that the Basque Government, by the hand of Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, is doing what it has to do with regard to social dialogue and collective bargaining. And it doesn't differ, it was going to say in much, in nothing, it doesn't differ in anything, to what the Government of Spain, led by the Socialist Party, by its colleague Yolanda Díaz, is also doing with collective bargaining and social dialogue. Why will I vote for the amendment we have registered as the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party? Because that is what we are doing in the Spanish Government and in the Basque Government. The problem of coherence you have. That's the point. Going to the original initiative. I, Mrs Garcia, am going to tell you how I think it is, and it is also that having a clear bet on wage increases and that there is no wage devaluation in the Basque Country is not at odds with respect for social dialogue and respect for collective bargaining. And he is also not opposed to something that is supposed to be: and it is respect for the social partners and their negotiating capacity. Sure, you come down here, you come down here, you say, "No. It's just that in their amendment they say..." Sure, let's see, let's get in our shoes. We're government. We cannot reflect everything in an amendment. It's just that we act. The one with the problem is you, who will have to pick it all up on a piece of paper because you don't see your performances, although you do see the inconsistencies. We're acting. We're acting. And, of course, you call social dialogue. Yeah. But, listen, I've never heard you come down here and complain to the unions that they leave their seats empty at the Social Dialogue Bureau that they feel like they're doing social dialogue. Great. A call to the social dialogue very coherent, very committed that of EH Bildu. But it is that at the time of truth on top, when social dialogue gives results, EH Bildu either criticizes them or ignores them. Yeah. When agreements have been adopted, such as, for example, supplementing the ERTE, something has given a livelihood tool to thousands of families in this country, they brought us here a motion to say that it was a mess what the unions, employers and government had agreed: that it was to supplement those ERTE that were going to reach the families. And also when the unions sit with the entrepreneurs and sit with the government, Mr Hernández, and they come to a transcendental agreement, as may be the one that was given in the Labour Reform, you are still absent. And if today we have certain data of positive unemployment, if today we have an indefinite hiring triggered, if today we have more agreements it is thanks to that labor reform that you did not support. Curious... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... Indefinitely fired, if we have more agreements today it is thanks to that labor reform that you did not support. Curious way to come down here to call those who have given the call and say that (...). You may learn, Mrs Garcia, that the revolution is being done in the Official State Gazette. And that's what the socialists do, despite you. And, of course, you in this area of labour reform stayed alone with the PP, but today you also stay with the PP. Look, Mrs Garcia, there is a part of the People's Party amendment that unites them, which links them. This is what I think at the fifth point, in fact, says: "The Basque Parliament urges trade unions and business associations to maintain a reasonable and sensible attitude". Of course, from politics, determine what is reasonable and what is sensible and what trade unions and employers have to do. Mrs Garcia, I know you don't like the picture, but today your approach is the same as that of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u22	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u23	Thanks again. Mr. Gil, this isn't the first time I've been called loose, so I'm not gonna make blood out of this either. In addition, today we already share several, right?, Mr Hernández's, Mr Rico's, and mine's. But I will use a concept that you have used; principle rather, principle of responsibility, principle of responsibility brought to the debate that Mrs Garcia brings us, in relation to the impulse that must be given to ours, to labour relations within our framework. Without a doubt, we have to be, or must be, all and all of us have to be responsible for driving our labour relations forward; not just the Government, not just the Basque Government. Under this prism of responsibility, your initiative of control in your day and of impulse today seems to me very little responsible, Mrs Garcia. And I will no longer focus on this, as I think I have made my position quite clear in the first intervention. However, I felt very responsible for the Government, the lehendakari in full control of self-control - as I said before - by putting all its action on the table in relation to the drive of our labour relations: structural elements that strengthen them, elements that have been created or promoted in the last two years; attempts to generate areas of stability and certainty; and - call it as you wish - more short-term measures, channelled towards more vulnerable people and groups, and, fourthly, a deeply proactive attitude towards the drive of our labour relations. But always from respect for the autonomy of the parties, that seems not to understand this concept. The amendment that we humbly advocate, I believe, Mr Rico and I have acted with this text - with its text - with responsibility, and in our text we have corrected that effect and encouraged or helped to boost our labour relations. I believe that you will vote against it, but I believe that expressing respect for collective bargaining as a nuclear element of labour relations and, consequently, urging the Government to continue to maintain that respect and, on the second point, expressing support for social dialogue as an effective tool for participation, is an effective tool for participation, and therefore urging the Government to continue deepening it seems to me to be a good starting point. It is certainly time to share efforts, to face together, together and with responsibility the solution of this new crisis. To continue to bet on collective bargaining for the impetus of our labour relations must be a shared goal. That's how we understand it. The responsibility for reaching agreements lies primarily with the holders of labour relations in the Basque area. That's how they do it in many cases. It is very important that others recognize this effort: I do it, the Basque Government does it, the lehendakari does it. The Social Dialogue Bureau, the Lanbide Board of Directors, the Osalan General Council, the Labour Relations Council or the Economic and Social Council are essential tools in driving our labour relations. Mrs Garcia, do you not feel that there is little responsibility with regard to or with regard to the impetus of our labour relations for certain trade unions to refuse to participate in these Basque forums, but do they do so in State-level analogs? Famous metaphor: The elephant in the room. We have an elephant in this room; I see it, I see the elephant, and I speak of the elephant: here, between the rostrum and the lawyers. And I'm talking about the elephant. Our parliamentary group, other parliamentary groups also see and talk about it; the Government, the lehendakari see and talk about it. Mrs. Garcia, do you see it? Do you see it? Do you see him? Let us all be responsible with the impulse of our labour relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. After discussion, we'll put the original text of Mrs Garcia Ortega's motion to the vote. We can vote. (stopping) [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 26; opponents, 46; abstains, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u25	Not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; the opponents 7; the opponents are 64; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u26	Not accepted. Together, Podemos-Nozzer is going to vote for the full rights of the crew. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 26; opponents, 46; abstains, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u27	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the eucalypologists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters of the country are 39; the contrary, 26; the Absencesion, 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u28	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos-Nodemus as a parliamentary group of parliamentary factions, about the model of cohousing or of the buildings of the country together. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Monsieur Martínez, representing the Podemos-Nozzerate team, is yours to present and defend the engagement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u29	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. And, well, we're going to discuss this coousing initiative that our team has been introduced to today, if it makes any noise. And we have also to say that we've made a great deal of agreement, and in this sense we think it's a step in politics to guarantee a decent apartment. He's a chousing tool, especially in a quantum way. Ekimenean esaten genuine bezala, there is a diagnostic report of the cohousing model in Euskadi a couple of years ago, in which is established cohousing, which is still an acronym of collaborative housing, of cooperative housing, which is taking a boost in recent years in Euskadi and different initiatives have appeared. And it is also true that steps have been taken in different administrations, in the government; and also in this Parliament, in the last legislature and in this, in the resolutions of the master plan. Cohousing or cooperatives, we say this in the initiative and in the debate that we have had, well, in the exchanges of emails we have logically found - this report also says - that it is a useful tool, but that it is also very complex to manage and it is not the definitive solution, as virtually none of the tools in housing policy, but we do think, from our group, that it has a progressive and, above all, qualitative impact on public housing policy. Collaborative housing, in different forms, has a long tradition in some countries: in Denmark, almost a third of the dwellings could be said to be within this category; there is a cooperative model of a lot of tradition in Uruguay; there are 800,000 dwellings in the Austrian Park, for example; and in the State, we have more recent experiences, especially in Catalonia, in the city of Barcelona, and also with a long tradition, in a municipality such as the Prat de Llobregat, with worker housing cooperatives. Also in Euskadi, in recent years, we have seen as especially focused on experiences of what is now called senior collaborative housing. But, well, actually for people who are close to retirement and want to have an active and community aging, we are also seeing how these initiatives are emerging; and also some intended for young people, in the form of collaborative housing or also driven from the municipalities, as many years ago began in Bilbao a very small experience; and in recent years also in Errenteria. As we say in the case of the case, there may be a public experience or policy that unites the agenda with 2030s, a common life, which may encourage the existence of different ages, and we also refer to a policy or politics which may have a profound connection in respect of the common view of health. That's how we get into this report about the cooussing, and that's how we recognize it in our initiative. Many formulas are very different in the world and in the world for the development of such politics: a collective content, co-operatives, a temporary use, a policy to facilitate certain collectiveities to acquire a residence, and even to young people, and, as I said, to promote certain co-operatives in order to promote an active old age. We're also seeing how many initiatives are fostering in the country to promote communal life during the past few years. But, as I have said, passing from theory, law, and initiative is very difficult for practice. Por distitos motivos. You know, we're short of Por de Cultura que tenemos en este país paragestionar y para promover... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...the dandruff bear. For different reasons, because of the lack of culture that we have in this country to manage and promote these policies, both citizenship, but also in public institutions. I, as I said, have made some progress, but there is still a great deal of work to be done on the individualism that prevails in our society and on the culture of ownership that is so deep-rooted that we have, because of the lack of cooperation of the banks, and this must be said, even if it is not the debate, but also because of the lack of a public financing instrument; that is, of a public bank that could be used to finance this type of initiative, together with many others, because of the lack of soil, in many cases, and because of the price of it, and also because of the strong housing needs, and because, although we have a housing policy in the last two decades, it is true that we are far behind most of the countries of the European Union, and indeed, because that is true that it is also a brake on these initiatives. As I said, you must confess the steps you've taken in the past few years. Then we've also inserted in the middle of the course that all the things that are inserted in the order of 2021 have been a step forward. But even as the correction says so, and in 2020, so far as this report is said, there are still many things which are not better. And therefore we say, and command the Government, or say, that many things which are included in that rule ought to be altered if we would encourage the coousion. We want and believe that a much clearer strategy needs to be made, which requires much more robust leadership from the Government to accompany the municipalities, because there are many municipalities, in addition to different parties, that have the intention and willingness to implement these types of projects, but that it is true that the number of conditionalities that there are need for an Administration such as the Basque Government, which is competent in housing matters, to lead and accompany these projects more actively. We also say – and we have taken that into account in the transaction – that the social project behind these projects is fundamental. It has to have, logically, income criteria the projects that we support from the public era of community life, sustainability, intergenerational criteria, and also, logically, ownership in assignment of use. As I said, changes in this order must be considered, although it is true that it is very recent, because the implementation of many of these projects, the Government's own report and the experience of the municipalities that have tried, and groups that have tried to implement these projects, indicate this. And we also think, although it is true that it is not within the transaction, that we must correct the dysfunctions that exist between what is contained in that order and the housing law, and the law itself on cooperatives, as indicated by the Government itself in that report published in 2020. And also preparing this point, and talking to several experts and some of the groups that are promoting this type of project, I think that in addition to what we have gathered in the initiative, and it is collected in a way, perhaps, a little generic, it is important that information and training be increased or improved to implement this type of cooperative, and I believe that this is a fine thread task that the government can also lead. Finally, we think that the agreement is enough for us, but we really think that there are some things that have been left out, other contributions are good, and that they will feed a great deal in the middle. And we also hope that we have enough to encourage the government's initiative. But, well, we'll keep this up. We hope that, as I say, from the − government now, we're going to take the leadership on this point. And this vivendida collaboriva, these collaborative housing again or again, more or less... Well, it's a way of promoting it with a lot of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u30	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing to the leadership teams, representing the EH Collector, Mr Fernandez de Betoulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u31	Good morning, everyone. I would like to make a distinction, and it is often mingled with coousion or colaborative housing, and the co-operative co-operatives of the left-off use are not exactly the same. And I think that in that sense, in the decree of the survival of the summer that he had made, it's pretty clear what those coousions are or what they are, and there are certain common services that have only a few normal housing, isn't it? Those services can be the place where they are, the dining rooms, the clean places, the places where they leave bikes, and so on. So they've been like that for years. Maybe they didn't have that name, but for socialism or socialism... In projects which had ideas for socialism there have been such proposals, such as the utopic socialism in France. there were some of the projects that had been made in the century. If there were too childish nurses for the children who lived there, movies and so on, or even the Soviet Union had made quite a number of projects like that, haven't they? What's the interest in these projects from a present point of view? and therefore they are very near the examples of them, both of the Schools, and of the Elders, and of the Elders. And therefore it is possible to set up a pattern for the adultes, which has an interest in autonomy, and is not a mansion, but is very near, combined with the benefits of a private house. And he may suppose it to young people at expense, to save at some common expense, and, therefore, from this point of view it may be interesting.... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... he may even suppose expense to the young, save at some common expense, and consequently may be interesting in this respect. Anyway, for us, EH Collector, it's a much more sophisticated type of co-operative co-operative equipment. The two ideas, of course, may be united, and are often united, and therefore I think they are confounded. But it's really the ruser, it's the free-use co-operatists. Why? Now the whole building does not divide itself in the co-operative parts of the use, nor is there any horizontal division, so that it stands in the name of a co-operative, with the restrictions supposed by it: there is only one mortgage if there is to be, or if there is to be a match there is only one. And the co-operativeists are allowed to use the use, that is to say, they are allowed to use it for the convenience of being co-operative. In order to be cooperative, they must at first place a portion of the capital, a deembolso at first, and then, in a month, a certain amount of money is paid, not a rent, but a kind of rent, which may be a low income. And besides, this income may be destroyed during the lapse of time in proportion as the original prestige is diminished, and it is irritated. So it's a standard that keeps off the ordinary business model in the market, and that's why it seems to us to be the hipstler. And, above all, it seems to us a change because when those housing rooms are sold... or rather, when they are willing to leave them, they cannot be sold. You can't sell them. It's what's done: That apartment passes to the Building and Loan. Well, it's always been co-operative. It's what the co-operative does: it comes back to him with the money he's put in at the beginning, in some cases for reforming, if he's put in the money for updates, but he can't sell that house. And so, as long as it's a model that's out of the market's logic, it seems very interesting to us, and we think it should be pushed here and that it should be funk about it. This is not a strange idea; some of the first cases have been mentioned. I think it's a highlight of Denmark: there are more than 125,000 units in this pattern, in this model of neglect; and there is, more or less, a third of all the dwellings in this model of neglecting use in the manner of Andel or Andel. And I think that's supposed to be connected with the age of the grant in Denmark. It's 21,3 years old in Denmark. Klaro, I think those two data are connected. One of them has a good income, and consequently may leave the house of his parents soon, or leave it early, if they please. There are nine more years here for young people to stay in their parents' houses because they have no other alternative. And we think that this is why we should encourage such examples. You've got to say that we think you've been pretty low in this area, in this area. It must be remembered here eleven years ago in 2011. that a catalan society called ) came to this legislature to explain this example. Four years passed, and in the housing law, 2015, he had received this example: a pattern of leaven. In those days there was no mention of coousing or colaborative housing. This example is regulated by the third extra regulations. It's said it's an external model. The definition that comes in the housing law is quite interesting; it's in four or five points high enough. And since then, I've been saying very little about how to develop it. And what he has done is what has now been said: At the end of 2021, an order has been issued to give us some scholarships in this area. It's a good step, we think it's going well, but we think it would take improvements. In the first place, we think the definition is mixed up in this order. We think it's more coerent that comes in the process of survival, and we think that we should unite it because both of them are made by fun. On the other hand, we think when there's a lot left... I mean, I didn't say this, but (to the Building and Loan?) A way of assisting may be from Public Administration, and it may be another way of dropping the floor, can it not? And this is done in certain cases: the floors of the co-operative have been neglected for several years, in a period of 75 years, in patterns which at least we are ready; such neglects have been made in Catalonia. And we think that this is not defined in this order, in the month of December, and should be defined. It's said a rather curious thing, and it's that if they're part of the housing department they can't leave the property, we don't understand it very well. They're from the environmental section, but they don't belong to the housing department. That's what we think we should improve. But above all, the maximum tope that takes place should be improved as far as possible in the initial denoblousness, as well as in the yearly rent. We think the numbers are too high. The initial debolso, if I am not mistaken, is placed in 30,000 euros, and then the maximum income of the month is placed in 750 euros, plus the KPI index update. If Klaro, a 750- euro rent is updated in a month with the current KPI at 10%, he'd give us another $75 euros a month, about 825 euros rent. We think this model doesn't have a proper insertion. We think we should go to a softer income in these examples. And, above all, we think that's the order that you're doing, like an office that sees projects and helps them, right? And we think it should be initiation. It'd have to be more active in this shit, too. And that's the meaning of our full correction. We were wondering if three pilot projects, one in every country, would be left to the co-operative committees, public, and always kept public for 75 years. And there, for the use of it... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... public, and always keeping public for 75 years. And in it, a free-use Building and Loan would be able to develop its project through a public contest. And we also said that the size of the promotion could be around 30-40 units, because the patterns we know are of that size. And we think that we must always learn what examples are good. And in that sense, we think, just like − said, you should be more active than I am and lead these pilots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. The representative of the popular group of Basques, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u33	Eskerrik asko, good morning. The problem of housing in the Basque Country and in Spain as a whole has generated great concern in both economic and social fields, and a great deal of research in recent decades. And, both aspects, concern and research were increased, and in what way, after the explosion of the real estate bubble. And so it is important to stop in the analysis of some models that are working in Europe to facilitate access to housing. We know experiences of so-called intergenerational cohousing and senior cohousing. And what do you mean, cohousing? I suppose we should explain what a model of coexistence is in which its members share common spaces, but at the same time they have totally independent housing from each other. In broad terms, this is a model that is carried out through cooperatives or homes in transfer of use. Co-operatives of seconded homes usually host a cohousing or collaborative housing project, although not necessarily. Intergenerational cohousing is one that includes people and families of different age groups, and senior cohousing, cohousing senior, only for senior people and families. Legally, the difference between collaborative housing and cessional cooperatives can very well be distinguished. In addition, there is a sense of community and a project of coexistence that distinguishes a collaborative housing from a cooperative housing of assignment of use. As an intermediary between cooperatives and the transfer of use, and that which is property-oriented, for example, in Ireland, the model of shared ownership is being implemented, which may be of interest to groups who want access to the property, but do not have sufficient resources. Through this system houses in a particular way, and the cooperative in a collective way, the ownership of the housing is decided at 50%, favoring access to individual financing of 50% of each partner through mortgages negotiated with the entities. It is necessary that you now bet seriously on this housing model. A real commitment would be the application of tax incentives to promote them, and the allocation of economic items to boost projects with the viability of collaborative housing or cohousing in the development of housing policies. And if we put in place the mechanisms that I have just mentioned, we could once and for all see the fruits of the collaborative housing system growing in Euskadi, and you know that many people's illusions and dreams could come true. This type of initiative is tested in other countries, and there are many collaborative housing projects that want to see the light here. I believe that sharing housing under a cooperative formula is a good solution to be able to access a home without having to be mortgaged with completely autonomous housing and in total freedom on the part of all its members. One of the advantages of this type of accommodation is, of course, the reduction in expenditure on conventional housing. The property is owned by the cooperative self-promoted and self-managed by its own residents. Each of them enjoys some (?) of housing through a non-profit-making right of use or promoter. In addition, these houses are fully equipped and have common spaces that house dining rooms, play rooms, laundry facilities, gyms, and in the case of Mr. Cohousing, a service of medical professionals can be implemented. He said earlier that such initiatives are being tested in other countries. If they say that experience is a degree, let's look where this model is running, as for example, it is very widespread in Scandinavian countries, where it has been operating almost 50 years successfully. For all the above, the parliamentary group that I represent here, the People's Party-Citizens, is in favour of the promotion of cohousing, both by public administrations and by private initiative, and of promoting the model with public economic injections and attractive fiscal measures so that these projects can see the light once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician, Arrian. Aunque Euskadi... Congressmen, all good days. Although Euskadi remains very well positioned at the state level in the comparative housing indicators, indicating that the direction of the Housing Department's policy is the right one, access to housing, both in purchase and rent, remains one of the priority issues for the most vulnerable Basque social sectors. But also more and more with causes in the increase of economic inequality and the reduction of its population weight for broad middle layers of our society, which do not find solutions in the free market. This situation is of concern, but it is also subject to ongoing monitoring and evaluation as a step ahead of political action by the Department of Housing. The Basque housing law of 2015 set us a twofold goal: to guarantee the right to housing and to strengthen social cohesion. And this is and must be our housing policy for socialists... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... the right to housing and to strengthen social cohesion. And this is and must be our housing policy for the socialists. The right to housing is also guaranteed through the promotion of collaborative housing, intergenerational projects, and new forms of housing, as an alternative that may be of particular interest to certain population groups, depending on the time of their vital journey, through cooperatives and other non-profit associations. And since we do not start from scratch on this issue we have to talk about the non-law proposal on the promotion of new housing models presented by the parliamentary group EH Bildu, which was debated in this House just three years ago. An issue on which consensus was generally reached. As my colleague Eneko Andueza said on that occasion - and I fully subscribe - we will continue to move forward, not only to have tools and instruments to support these initiatives, but, beyond that, to keep Euskadi as an example in housing policies that give our young people a greater opportunity for emancipation, and to face the last stretch of life through projects that are worthy of our elders in recent years. That was three years ago, and today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal regarding the impulse of cohousing or collaborative housing presented by the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. In this regard, the commitment of the Department of Housing in actions to promote, promote and promote new forms of use of residential housing and buildings is firm and unquestionable. Of course, there was talk of leadership here, and leadership is clear. And of course, Mr Martínez what impulse, what is said impulse has been and much, although as you acknowledged, this is a useful and complex tool. Today we have a diagnostic report on the cohousing model in Euskadi published by the Basque Housing Observatory in July 2020, which is referred to as a strategic instrument in justifying the initiative we are debating today. It is a document commissioned and assumed by the Department of Housing precisely with the intention of setting the priorities for its action, and with the aim of aligning strategy, policy, and executive action. Today we also have the order of 7 December 2021, of the councillor of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, on actions to promote the rental and other forms of use of housing and residential buildings, in force since 21 December 2021, that already contemplates alternative formulas of access to housing, and it is a development in its own terms of the strategy that I have mentioned before. The norm develops the programme of cohousing aid for the promotion of collaborative housing, both public protection and free housing, and promoted always and exclusively by non-profit associations and housing cooperatives under assignment of use. Public aid is granted for the promotion of cohousing or collaborative housing, defined as a system which allows access to a dwelling by means of a pre-entry fee and a monthly fee to a cooperative or non-profit entity, in accordance with the housing law, and which manages a self-management housing community, consisting of residents of the dwellings at lower prices than those of the rental market. Each house must have its own spaces that meet the minimum conditions of habitability, as well as common spaces for the use and enjoyment of residents. The program is aimed at the promotion of homes formed by a minimum... collaborative, formed by a minimum of five homes, with a number of conditions, which well, there they are established and I will not deepen. But I would like to point out that subsidies are increased, or aid is increased when the monthly fee for the assignment of use does not exceed EUR 600, and the initial contribution does not exceed EUR 25,000, in the case of intergenerational housing, defined as a mix of young and older people with benefits of mutual support and balanced distribution, as well as in the case of adapted housing in any form. Today we also have complementing that order of 7 December 2021 which regulates the aid for cohousing, the strategies published in this field that are set out in the 2021 Housing Master Plan and the future Social Pact for Housing. As a more innovative element of the Housing Master Plan, it seeks to give a special impetus to the promotion of collaborative housing and new forms of housing, including various activities with promotion aids. And here Mr Fernandez de Betoño referred, because we have to have more leadership, we have to be more proactive, and, of course, that in this master plan we all had the possibility of being proactive, of... Well, since the plan was presented as a communication, we all had the opportunity to make our motions for resolutions. And only two resolutions adopted in that communication came out, and, of course, none was proposed by your parliamentary group. Today, too, the Department of Housing is working with economic and social actors, some 100 already contacted. A social pact on housing for the next 15 years, where a cross-cutting line, involvement and public-private social collaboration has been identified. Public-private social collaboration is related to the development of collaborative housing and/or cohousing, with the aim of promoting housing under this modality until 2036. The differential factor of our public-private partnership and unlike other autonomous areas - both with private real estate promotion and with social ones - which here is intended to mobilize privately owned land, reserving public land for strictly social rent. And all this because the effective capacity to pay our majority plaintiffs necessarily leads us to that product of low social rents. With their own public floors, pilot projects are planned, always subject to public competition, which will join the promotion on sale of the 109 homes in Txomin Enea of Donostia-San Sebastián. The initiative of your group, Mr Martínez, dealt with the impulse of the cohousing model or collaborative housing, and has made a broad statement that the impulse has already been given and is being given. Well, I end up not without thanking Mrs Berasaluze, Mr Martínez, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, of course, and for her interest in reaching and the effort to reach an agreement. A compromise amendment that those who have preceded me in the use of the floor, well, they have already given some traces. A broad agreement on a housing issue, of course, with a... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... They have preceded me in the use of the word, well, they have already given traces. A broad agreement on a housing issue, of course, with one side, a social part. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u36	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, those of you who have spoken before me have spoken in general that today we have an extensive agreement, once more, about the housing business. And we always say that in our society many subjects create great care, but that it belongs to the housing. And in this Chamber, I think it's good to have a deal on this subject in order to be able to deal with it all. As to what we are discussing today, we have also said that we had the opportunity to speak in the previous law, and that discussion was concluded with a vast agreement. We also had the chance of a previous legislation at the HUD to know some experiences about this cohousing or model. And among many other things, what most of them expressed was that there was a great deal of difficulty in getting ahead of them, especially those of private enterprises. And sometimes in administrative tramitation, and that there were great problems, because this was not very well regulated and not ordered in the institutions. And it is also mentioned in our agreement to-day, that it is necessary to furnish information and convenience in the administration, that a person, or a collective person, who does so in favour of such a model of life, should have occasion for ease. Because that's what I remember, at least, one of the things that all agreed on. On the other hand, the housing driver is in plan 2021-23. And in making this plan, the participation was opened in this process, many of the agents said that the problem of the housing ought to be applied as an addition of those usual ways which were used to give an answer to the problem, as well as the standards which we are now speaking of from public institutions. And, well, it's also mentioned that 2020 when you're talking about the diagnosis that you're making such formulas as are taking power in the Eukadin, because some of the initiatives are also being carried forward as private initiatives and as well as public institutions. And here, for instance, we had a chance to meet the project brought by the Red Center City Council. It has also been mentioned that it is received at the order given by December 7 a.m., and that is one of the commitments taken in the direction of the housing. And then, in order to encourage, too, the precise initiative, these formulas of which we are speaking today. And it may be done in two ways: and these buildings are also acquired by encourageing new buildings to re-establish them from public institutions or whatever they are, and by using them to guide the cohousinger. The will of the Basque Government understands our group that it is clear about the impulse of alternative forms of access to housing, which we call them, I do not know whether they are usually or not as collaborative housing or cohousing. And, well, they are well promoted by not-for-profit associations or cooperative societies so that their members can access these homes under assignment of use and that they are also included in the housing master plan. And then we believe that in the order of 7 December 2021 at least a legal basis is created on which we also reflect in the compromise amendment that we will adopt today, perhaps we need to make changes in order to facilitate the development of these alternative housing formulas. We believe that it is the responsibility of public institutions to give an answer to the person who needs the housing, that no formula is to be rejected which will make it possible. This may be one. And, to do that, we see absolutely absolutely absolutely absolutely absolutely absolutely absolutely absolutely absolutely that it's in the middle of an association between non-commissioned organizations, especially when you have to make the necessary use of those public lands, which are usually in the hands of the councils, or are the most popular of the councils. And yet, as far as it is clear, it will not be an economic criterion that will determine this neglect, but a social project which may lie behind it. As I said before, it's not easy to go forward with these projects. That's what they told us. And if therefore there be any regulation, we think it good also. And this has also been brought up by the development of so many projects as by Eukadin, because the same experience will show us where it is to go and how it can be easier to make such housings. So I won't be long. Those of you who have spoken before me have spoken of those who received the agreement today. I'm the only one who thanks Mr. Martín, because he's been in a very good position to make a big deal about this thing... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... And thanks also to Monsieur Martínez, who has been in a very good mood to make an extensive arrangement on this subject, Mr. San José and Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. And just because we've been able to make an agreement in this way we've been working on the housing business before, I hope we're going on like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing on the answering shift, the representatives of the Podemos team together... Group up the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u39	I'm short, second round. Well, to say that we've signed this medium with a little scepticism, but even if we consider that we must also encourage these alternative patterns outside the business. And in that sense, we find it interesting because it's going well. And above all, there would be two things in the middle: one of which we requested that the pilots had at last settled in the plural, and therefore we hope that there should be more than one, and, on the other hand, that this order of December 2021 must be improved. And I have enumerated this in the old intervention of certain accounts which we believe to be best adapted, especially those of the tope maxim, that if the areas are left to be left, it should be determined in the surface for how many years it is made. And, above all, we think that that's not exactly the order that makes it fun to distribute scholarships like an stanchilla, but that something should make it more active, shouldn't it? We've been told here we didn't make up our minds to Housing Guide, because we couldn't see any problems in this matter. It was there that he planned to encourage the coupling, and there was a lot of money for it. And we're on the side of it. That doesn't remove the fact that other projects have to be made which we think would have to lead. And here's one mentioned, and it's true, already, that he's making a project pilot, which at first gets excited, in the Cunty, in an official 109-back house, which will be in the hands of a free-use organization. If everything's all right, because in the funding, −ker I don't know, so we'd have to figure out what else can be done from the funding. But, above all, I should like to say that it is about this model that I think it's −, on the scale, that it may be too large. A building in 109 isn't small. That's why in our proposal we said it was better to go to 30 to 40 block models. And this isn't silly because if you finally make a coousing, if you do some common elements, it's very important how big the building will be and how many families there will be. So we think we should see what patterns they are next to us. And it's a model we have to follow from the Building and Loan in Barcelona by the co-operative La Borda. There's 30 units there, 28-30. The initial debulbular was around 18,000-190,000 euros, and then what they pay in a month is 400 euros in the smallest housing and 600 euros in the largest housing. And, as I said before, it's done for 750 bucks, and it's on KPI's index to update it. So we think it would be too big. And I would also like to say that we believe in the model of the Brominenea that a thing is not properly put forward, and that it is that the society of the co-operative has been subcontradicted to an inmobilist. We don't have a problem with the immbilizers, but we believe that they must be their little nits and their business fields elsewhere, and not in the promotions of the houses of the cohousing or of the use, because I believe that in this model, which the law of 2015 made it sufficiently clear, we must leave the Lutheran out of this model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. The Basque Popularo-Ciudados must not speak. Not even Mrs. San José. And not even Mrs. Nevers. [[Pause]] End of discussion, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Euskal Socialists, EH Collect and the Middle Amendment signed by Euual patriots. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; the votes on the 70s, the 69; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u41	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition as a parlamentary group of populars in Europe, about the development of the 11/2007 Laws by regulating the Basque Library. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposer's turn... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... The 11/2007 Act on the Basque Library in relation to the development of it efficiently by regulating the rule. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Barrio, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u42	Good morning. I believe that we are faced with an initiative that was necessary in relation to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u43	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u44	... a necessary initiative in relation to the identification and an attempt to settle a very clear regulatory breach that affects our system of libraries in Euskadi, and that can cause serious problems to users, technicians, municipalities, information. All this in the management of these important cultural centres, which are libraries. That is why we were able to attend in this Parliament and with great interest to the appearance that ALDEE, the Basque Association of Professionals in Archives, Libraries and Documentation Centres, had, that is, that appearance that was held in this House before the Committee on Culture on 15 June, a few months ago. Well, that appearance the truth is that it was really interesting, where the association, ALDEE, explained to us their work, important work throughout our geography, many centers, many locations, many municipalities, many, of course, with intense activity. They explained to us their work, and above all, they alerted us to the outstanding policy needs, outstanding subjects that our legislative development has in the area of gross libraries, i.e. palpable, and those outstanding regulations, especially with regard to the public reading network and many other issues. There they are addressed in what the appearance therefore had many elements, very clear, that I will briefly try to identify, because Law 11/2007 of 26 October, that is, a law 15 years ago, next week 15 years ago, establishes conditions for the regulatory development of it in different articles, and above all, different concepts, in particular articles six, eight, 14, 18, 20, 22, 23, 24, 31, 34, 36, 40, 44, 43. And, in addition, the explanatory statement itself speaks of regulatory development as a key element also for this issue, so that the Libraries Act would truly be a general library regulation in this country. Those keys haven't been made. Some issues, many issues, most of the issues are still pending, and are of extraordinary importance for the optimal development of our cultural system. The researcher also, the educational, essential, as is that of the network of libraries of this country. It was also made clear by the association of manifesto and as identification of the problem by professionals in this field, these shortcomings. As I said earlier, 15 years have passed since the regulation of the said law, and its regulatory development is still pending. That is a cause for concern for experts, for professionals in the field, and we wanted – after that (?)currence – of course, involve the House in that circumstance to see to what extent it can be cured and managed. We present an initiative at the moment after the appearance, asking to proceed by the Basque Government and the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy as soon as possible, of course, to the corresponding regulatory rules referred to in the articles of Law 11/2007. And we also presented it with a spirit of agreement. We thought it would be important to observe and see, to wait for contributions in the spirit of reaching agreement. That was, of course, and is the intention of this parliamentary group in this area to help these experts, these professionals, these researchers, the entire network of professionals and technicians who are working. That was the spirit. I will immediately stop at the compromise amendment. The need for action, i.e. the development of regulations, is a matter of great importance in many articles of this Act, of this 2007 Euskadi Library Act. First, in the presentation of reasons as a key element also in the development of that law. The law was going to say what it says, but regulatory development was going to be key for it to be a law, a general rule applied, and so far it has not been. Article six, which deals with the planning of the library system, is very important; article eight, with the duty of information, regulation determining the conditions of the duty of information; article nine, which regulates and regulates access to bibliographic information; article 14.7, on spaces, regulation determining its requirements; article 18, on timetables, conditions of service, regulation determining those issues; article 21, conditions and effects of the integration of a library into the Basquedi Public Reading Network, something essential, very important, because at this time it represents an imbalance in the Map of Basquedi Libraries; article 22, on the Rules of the Register of Libraries of the Basquedi Public Network; article 23.5 on the Reading Map, regulation regulating its updating and other conditions for its elaboration; article 24.2, on the professional conditions of staff; article 31, on university libraries, a tool that guarantees the provision of its services to individuals, in addition to the form of coordination with the rest of the library system; article 24.2, on the professional conditions of staff; article 31, on the University Libraries, regulation establishing the deposit of documents 36.1.)a subject to the bibliographic deposit of Euskadi; article 40, on bibliographic deposit, regulation determining the conditions of access to it, and article 44.2... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Euskadi bibliographical; article 40, on bibliographical deposit, regulations determining the conditions of access to it, and article 44.2 and 44.3, on something also very important and tried to put into effect also in this initiative, with the contributions received on the Library Advisory Council. That is to say, to inform the proposals of the regulatory rules relating to libraries and regulations governing their composition, etc. One element, a very important body for advancing the development of the Euskadi Library Act. This is unfulfilled, this is undeveloped, and we ask the Government to do so, to do so quickly. He also spoke of two important topics in the appearance of ALDEE, article 23: the map of the Euskadi Public Reading Network is the strategic and operational library planning tool that collects libraries belonging to the Euskadi Public Network; and there the public reading needs, the service modules corresponding to the different population groups, etc. Well, this has to be developed in a more effective way. It is quite clear that work is in fact being done, but we must do so in an even clearer way. Or the staff of the Public Reading Network, where that concern was also expressed pending policy development. Good. We have worked for the agreement, we have reached an agreement with the groups supporting the Government, we have adopted a compromise amendment that says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy to continue to implement Law 11/2007 – implementing, well, the law is there; that is to say, the law must be enforced, but its progressive development is what was of interest, isn't it? – and its progressive development, proceeding to the elaboration of the regulations completed in its article that are necessary for its proper execution". Well, it is to continue to leave the Government playing field, we have to leave it, but it is implicit in this request, in this declaration, a mandate, a mandate to the Government, a mandate to the Government to act now and to do so now, and to develop, of course, those regulatory rules that have not been developed for 15 years. I say again, 15 years, almost nothing. Paragraph 2 points out that the Advisory Council, as Mr Estarrona, Mrs González, has made amendments, speaks of the Advisory Council for Libraries in Euskadi: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy to try to achieve, in the shortest possible time, the objectives mentioned above within the Advisory Council for Libraries in Euskadi, by their consultative nature". That is, Mr. Counsellor, we ask you to make that council work, in addition to the keys, in which the law itself and article 44 of that law says it must work. I think it's very clear, it's very... identify in Article 44 the Basque Advisory Council, its functions as an information body, that of proposing to the library department what has to do with the regulations, and that proposals for regulatory rules relating to libraries be formed. That's a very important thing. That is why we are asking you to take this initiative seriously and to act on what we have said, without delay. No time limit, but I think in the shortest possible time it makes you see that you should work. I simply want to conclude by referring also to what were the final keys or conclusions, worth the redundancy, of ALDEE's intervention, of the association of library professionals, of the archives in this House. And he made it very clear in his conclusions: "the coordination of libraries in public reading networks is essential for the social and cultural development of the information and knowledge society. In Euskadi there is a reading network and we have a network of libraries, but we have not managed to ensure that all citizens have the same opportunities for access to quality library services." It is a very important reflection, and we must work to overcome that imbalance. It also stated that "the disparity in responsibility for the financing of services, the imbalance between the responsibilities and human resources of the library service and the lack of development of the mechanisms envisaged by the law to address these inequalities make it difficult to meet the objectives of the reading network". Another element and another important reflection. I thought that, the association, our reading network provides citizens with a library service with sufficient coverage and quality, regardless of the size of their population. The municipalities need the financial support of network services from the supramunicipal administrations and, in our case, the Autonomous Community. The library service must be resized, and the planning tools must be operational and up-to-date. That is to say, they identify the problems and see that they need that supra-municipal help, because at the moment it is the local entities that often are the creators of subjecting and sustaining that cultural reality. And he said that "the law of libraries has that potential to correct these inequalities, but we cannot affirm it, because, after 15 years since its adoption, none of the regulations it contemplates have been developed." It is a very clear conclusion: it urges the Government - in this case, Parliament is now doing so - to develop these regulatory rules. And it's in your hand, Mr. Zupiria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u45	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u46	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, congressmen, chief physician. Most of you already know me, because I repeat it again and again, I am a librarian; I am by vocation and not because I read more than the average of people, surely, that we are in this Chamber, but I am because I am convinced that the transforming power that libraries have over people and people over libraries. Beyond what the UNESCO Manifesto tells us about the definition of a public library, I consider them essential. It's important to assume that the initiative we're discussing today is to discuss the rules of the Basque Library... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It is important to place this fundamental principle in order to justify the action which we are discussing today on the rules of the Eucharistic library. And if most of you are users, or if you know any of them, you agree with me. They are essential, not only because they encourage reading, but because they are spaces from which any human being can access information. And not to any information: to contrasted and quality information; to unregulated training throughout life, and to a non-sectarian and non-capitalistic leisure. Because they're big graders of society. Because all people are welcome, regardless of race, age, religion, gender, level of education, wealth or political inclination. For some, the second or third life can become space. It's a place to stay after school, cool or warm. And for those who don't have home, the library is a secure shelter when the shelters aren't open. A place to rest, to recover, to reflect. Because they are the core of democratic society. Because they help each person to be a better citizen, and through community building, literacy and equal access to resources. Because libraries provide information about social services. This is where people with a great social and socio-economic disadvantage benefit. And we often help users to process aids, renew unemployment or make resumes. They're powerful agents of equality. It's a community tool. It is a free, universal public structure, both for people with greater purchasing power and for people with less power. It's a field of freedom where no one's dissected. And this is their chief value: that they are cogitations of society. Therefore, as he is a professional who works there, I believe and I defend that it is a library where we help people live and be happier. But I also maintain that in order to obtain these ends, the efforts of the professionals are necessary to regulate the policy of the public. It has been two years and a peak since it reached this Parliament, our autonomous parliament. Here we legislate to improve our society and devote efforts, full after full, commission after commission, to regulate areas that we consider essential: education, health, housing, culture, social services... I have seen at this time processing about 20 laws and I don't know how many impulses of normative developments in many other laws. These tools; these normative developments with which laws become practical and with which public policies materialize into tangible realities for citizens. Back in 2007, as Mr Barrio rightly mentioned, this Parliament decided that we needed to regulate the functioning of the Euskadi libraries, and adopted a specific law. In six days' time, on 26 October, these 15 years will be fulfilled since the adoption of the law, with the consensus of all political groups. A living, moldable, flexible law would allow for the creation of necessary structures to plan, create, organize and coordinate the Euskadi library system. It would ensure services that facilitated the functioning of libraries and the right of citizens to reading, leisure and training. It was also intended to regulate the bibliographical deposit of Euskadi. It cannot be denied that the law exists, that it looks good, and has been a great step forward in its time, but, in the course of the 15th, it is far from being the fundamental instrument of the Eucharistic public reading to develop the network. And it is that the laws of libraries, if they are complied with, are instruments that improve the library system, but since its adoption the Basque law has had neither route nor impact due to the lack of such development of the regulations that contemplate it. The non-existence of regulations to which he constantly refers leaves it empty of content. So, it can be said that in Euskadi libraries function as if there was no law. All the groups that we are represented here, as Mr Carmelo Barrio has said, we have been able to listen to the demands of ALDEE, the Association of Professionals of Archives, Libraries and Museums of Euskadi, in attendance, but also in the bilateral meetings that it has held with all the groups. The ALDEE professionals are worried that despite the commitment to the management of their estates to their regulations, they have not seen any implementations, and have made no attempt to develop the law: nothing about the regulations that govern the workers, nothing about the school library, nothing about the development of the collections, nothing... Some data. The Basque Government Libraries Service has been working for 20 years with a minimum staff of 6 to 8 people to care for 230 libraries that make up the Basque Public Reading Network. With an incredible staff layout, that's right, but overflowing. Euskadi is the community that spends the most on library per inhabitant, but do not tell us that this is due to the law, because above all it is the involvement of the municipalities, which pay 80% of the costs of municipal libraries. The Basque Government does support digitization, the acquisition of funds, the promotion of reading, the interlibrary loan, the collective catalogue or the digital loan platform. And well, it has to be said that the interlibrary loan service works very well, and the eLibrary Librubila's also the right one. But we must not confuse these actions with developing and planning a system of libraries on a sound basis. Libraries in Euskadi are at the mercy of each local government, of every political change and of the importance they attach to each other at that time, making it impossible to defend minimum and uniform standards for all libraries and their professionals throughout the autonomous community. With regard to social return, a study has been carried out in the Foral Community of Navarre - which has not been done here - saying that for every euro invested in libraries there is a return to society of 3.5 euros. Antonio Machado said that only the fool confuses value and price. And this serves as a wake-up call for those who... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... EUR 3.5. Antonio Machado said that only the fool confuses value and price. And this serves as a wake-up call for those who see in libraries a useless expense and do not realize the value they have for society. There is only one thing that the Government has created and that was enshrined in the law, and that is what we are appealing to here today: the Library Advisory Council. A consultative body, not even a panacea. A technical advisory body, which, thanks to the insistence of ALDEE, has managed to renew and, in addition, to meet for the last time in 2020. So from my parliamentary group, together with Podemos-Areauerda Unida, he gathered the proposals together: I'd like you to meet the council of advice as soon as possible and set the library law priority, and ask the RedModics to find the standards that the government imposes on the town library. They are not demanding requests, counting on us for 15 years without taking more conclusive steps. The parties that support the Government have not wanted to commit themselves to a specific deadline that we considered most reasonable: six months to assemble an advisory council. Please make it clear to society, to library users, to the people who work in them, what importance they are giving to this issue. I thank Mr Barrio, I thank the People-Citizens Group and especially Mr Barrio, for bringing this issue to Parliament. But I'm sorry that we missed the opportunity for it to be a joint initiative before it was registered. And I feel that you have already reached this point in the negotiation that we have not been able to achieve that concrete compromise in the agreement. Although you are aware, and I have tried conscientiously. We called for a minimum agreement, a small step in the task of supporting from here, from Parliament, the future of the Euskadi libraries, of supporting the necessary regulation of their functioning and the recognition of all those professionals who take them out every day. And as a parliamentarian, I have done everything I can, as a professional, I am disappointed. And I had proposed to abstain, but the truth is that I cannot help but vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. The Federal Federation of the Profesian Associations of the Library, Archives, and Documentation Centers did a class examination of the laws of Spain, the legislation of the State. And then, as a result, they realized that there was a rule in the Esquica Autonomia in the Ereban, Biscaia, and Gipuzia since the 90th year, 2007. what was updated in the year by a law, as it has been mentioned here. And it was mentioned in the report, among other things, that the law had been a pioneer in its own time. But the greatest or greatest virtue of the law is many important elements which were contained in it, and these are those which have not been put into action, especially those which are called by the means of the establishment mechanism. That is to say, we had a law which the moment required, which was easily executed, but the mechanism of the development of this law did not start, and they have not yet started, as the former have indicated. (... The second example is that in this parliament, which is a member of Euskal Autonomy, a government of Arba, Biscaia, and of Gipuzia, the Parliament of Parliament, but which now, in this area, we are standing behind. The editors of the DEAVEL, in the morning of the performance of good noon, put an example on the Cultural Committee. An example of the iPhone which we all know, many of which will be in your pocket. Apple anunció una iPhone en mero de 2007 tras varies rumores and spermaces que circulaban hacía Mestes. El iPhone se introdujo a la venta inicialmente en junio de 2007 y tuvo un precio de salida y 499 dólares. Solo disconical con la operadora AT &T en Estedos Unidos. Fue nombrado invento del año por la revista Time aquiel año 2007. 2007, 2007, the law of libraries was approved by this parliament the same year. The IPPhone has 12, 13, 14 developments, I don't know whether the operational system is either 15,6, or 16.7; and besides, each development is laterly active, because it must ultimately adapt itself to routine. This law re-created a device with the nature of the law in the year 2007, which was good for him, and so it is. There is a sudden, good, and in it the law of library now. She's a fan of a zabaraz hitz egin da, she's a hitz egingo from the Hungarian era part hartzeetan Ganbera honetan. The beret law adopts an orderly zen onartu zabalaz. Eta hitz egingo da agea bat etorriko gara, ez?, bat catazela tade politico guztiok lege horren garapenaren beharrarekin. Bath hours ez luke eztabaidagai izan behar. There has been and is going to be much talk of consensus, of the need to develop the law, of which we all agree, but it should not be a reason for debate or a reason for mention; and if there is a clear reason, it is for a clear reason and a single reason. It is because of the failure to comply with a law passed by this Parliament in 2007, because of the continued and systematic failure of the Basque Government. And today, today, what was proposed, what was intended was to start walking, start walking, taking a first step through the holding of a meeting of the Library Advisory Council. And what guarantees, what guarantees does the compromise amendment that has been presented to us today, signed by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party, give us in this respect? What guarantees do we have that it will be like this? None, none beyond good will. A law was passed 15 years ago and published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, which entered into force on the day following its publication. There's a law in place that's not even... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... 15 years ago a law was passed that was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, which entered into force the day after its publication. There is a law in force that is not being implemented by this Government. And we either have to believe or we have to trust that with the GNP that is going to be approved here today, which does not take on any concrete commitment, this government is going to move forward. Besides, he'd add up to EAJ and PSE's reviving of the Basque Cultur and the Language Department insist that he continue to develop and fill up the October law on the Basque library. Let him continue, que siga desarllando. Cómo que siga desarllando? "Si no ha unarllado nada." Do you think you're crazy? "Quue continúe desarllando"? Orduan, Elkarrekin Podemeko ordezkaria edo González andreak esan duen bezala, negociaketak izan will tell her gutxienez, gutxienez konpromezu ratatu bat ateratzen genion Gobernu honi, she etxerako lanak jartzen zion parlementu honi, Jaurlaritzari. Eta six hilabeteko epe bat ezartzen genion aholku batzorde hori bildu zezan, bildu dadin. 15 hits passe dira, 180 hilabete passe dira, age six hilabete eman dizkiogu Jaurlaritzari bilera bat Egypt. Gutxienez konpromiso hori hartzeko eta esan: "Well, esaiguzue, mesedez, hemendik eta si hilabetera bai bilduko dela". Hau da, there was no established commitment in time to implement the library system of Araba, Gipuzkoa or Bizkaia, or a commitment to make the planning of services by the Basque Government or to design a strategic plan of libraries in the Basque Country, or to launch the Basque Library, as contained in the law itself; or to set up the Council on Libraries, which is not constituted; or not even to define the figure of librarian and librarian, something also fundamental and important; or not even the elaboration of the accessible public reading map, because the last thing we have is not even accessible. None of that was raised today. Today, what was proposed was to take a first step, something very basic like gathering, and above all, what has been being negotiated was to bring together the Basque Library Advisory Council. And for that we have tried to establish a period of time - we believe it is common sense and logical - which was to give this Government six months to gather advice. But not that, but not that. Our correction was transmitted, because a decree was agreed with the law, and two months later, December. And as it is received at the second point of his ninth article, the commission must be collected once a year. And that made this government assemble before the end of the year. But it's just that I didn't want to make any commitment tonight, even more, it makes it seem like it's a way to develop the same activity as you're doing. So stored up in it, cudo se está reconocendo que no se ha disarrollado la ley. Entonces, aqué tiene que seguir desarllando? No tiene nada que seguir desarllando, porque no se ha disarllado beginninga la fecha. He's incongrucia en sí misma la propia peticiión. I repeat, and this isn't news, taking advantage of Mr. Zupiria here, and thanking you for your presence from the first hand, and because you came over here to follow us, we're making a concession in this Chamber again, and it's the Cultural Department that's inflammable by the government department. We've told you all this over and over again, and we're stuck with a wall again and again. About six months, huh? Committee, committee. I don't know who or who you're going to have to talk to, but we think we had a plan to accept with unanimous unanimous consent here in the Parliament, and there's a pushover. Then, going back to the example of iPhone and, to finish, we have a mobile phone without an operating system, incapable of installing applications. The law is our phone if the operating system is somehow involved. But he needs updates, because the promotion of the law is an update. And we'll do these updates later and later, then our device will be longer and longer. And today there was a time to start update jobs, a time to specify them. We think it's a pretty common time, six months, but it's not even a chance. And so we won't protect him as the −'s agent doesn't protect that half-changer you've signed−.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u50	Thank you very much, President. Counselors. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to be very brief, even if it's just because my throat doesn't allow me to do much talking either. I'd like to start by claiming the role of libraries, too, wouldn't I? And I come to one with what Mrs. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita said about the leveling role in a democratic library society. It is really a great door that has no security arches and where anyone can enter, the one that wants can enter and make use of its services. Of course, it is a basic and fundamental infrastructure in democracy. It is a space - as I say - that welcomes all people, a space that requires freedom to help people as citizens to complement their education through free and free access to information and knowledge. The library - which often seems to be a building, an institution that we have and give in some way as a gift - is an institution that plays an absolutely axial role in building a democratic citizenship. For many people a library is their only point of access to the Internet, their only opportunity to have a suitable space for studies, or sometimes simply to access information that for citizens in general... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...the only point of access to the Internet, its only opportunity to have a suitable space for studies, or sometimes simply to access information that for citizens in general may seem as basic as reading the daily press. There are people who need the library for issues as basic as these. I would also like to share with you some information that shows the concern we must have, not only the network of libraries in Euskadi, but also the use and operation of libraries at national level. According to the Survey of Cultural Habits and Practices of 2021/22, recently published by the Ministry of Culture of the Government of Spain, only 18.14 per cent of the population attends the library at least once - understanding both face-to-face and Internet assistance. One fact is of course worrying, especially if we know that this is a 15% reduction from what had been included in the survey in the previous period. If we focus, we try to analyze a little that staff those people who attend the libraries and look at it from an age perspective, we find that 40.2% are young people between the ages of 15 and 19. If we look at the reasons, the reasons that led them to the library, we find that 31% attended the book loan, and 28.6% went there to study. I insist, possibly much of those young people who attended the library did so because it was the only way to access a comfortable space, well connected, and with content necessary to be able to study. Libraries are therefore a key element in building a free, democratic, committed and diverse society. But this is also reflected in the law that has so many times been cited here today, the 11/2007 of the Euskadi Libraries, which has been made as I say so much. Our law says that the protection of the fundamental right to freedom of expression and public access to information, which must also be guaranteed, promote equal opportunities for citizens so that from their freedom they can be cultivated, realize their literary and cultural interests, constantly increase their knowledge, as well as their personal and civic capacities. I have made a demand that I believe is what we have had in common so far, all of us who have spoken, is the demand for the role of libraries. I would also like to do a little self-criticism exercise, because of course, even though it sometimes seems to be an issue that escapes our profession as a politician, I think it is a healthy and healthy exercise. And possibly, it is true that the pace of law development has not been the most appropriate in the last 15 years, and that, of course, must be said. We have also heard here from professionals in the sector, professionals and professionals in the sector, but they also told us that the law is good. They also told us that it was a law that didn't need modifications, didn't need new ones... of new legislative paths, but simply what had to be done was to delve into it. That's why my group, along with the group... my Basque Socialist Group, together with the Basque Nationalist Group, has tabled an amendment which recognises the need to further develop this law, proceeding to the elaboration of the regulatory rules referred to in its article that are necessary for its adequacy, for its proper execution. Our amendment also recognized the role of the Euskadi Library Advisory Council as a tool for meeting and discussing all professionals in the sector together with the Government. We have reached a compromise with the Group of the People's Party-Citizens with Mr Carmelo Barrio, to whom I thank for the effort and work we have done. And I would also like to make special mention of Mrs González, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, because, well, she has really done an intense job of trying to facilitate. I've got a little attention, they say of Melbourne, the city of Australia, that it has the ability to pass through the four stations in one day. I am also somewhat drawn to your reaction today, because we have entered here with the support, then it has gone into abstention, and now it is suddenly in the vote against. Well, everyone will know, and they have their strategies. I can certainly only thank you for the effort you have made to try to reach an agreement, although then, for reasons that may in some cases escape from the subject to be dealt with, because you have decided to change the meaning of your vote. But the fact that, as I say, this law in some respects seems to have been in a standstill - and that of course is all there is to it - does not at all mean that the Government, that the different governments have done nothing or that they have turned their backs on the library network. Not at all, nothing further from reality. And I don't want to get mixed up with data, which could be brought in 1 001. It is only necessary to compare the evolution of the budgets from 2007 to the present to see the different commitments of the Basque Government. Just any library user, any regular library user, has been able to see the great change they have undergone in the last 15 years. As they have been adapting, especially to one of the main challenges, Mr Estarrona said, which is the challenge of digitisation. I think things have been done, many things have been done. More needs to be done, and, of course, more needs to be done. I'm done. We have a network of libraries and a group of librarians who have been active agents in the construction of this society in which we live. A network and some professionals we should be really proud of. I said that in the Committee on Culture when the sector came and sat down to talk to us. This parliamentarian talks to you about a very important part of his identity, his way of seeing and feeling the world at the Oñati Public Library. My way of thinking about the world and thinking about the world would not have been the same if there had not been the Public Library of the Faculty of Philology, Geography and History of our public university, Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. My work as a parliamentarian is certainly much cheaper and easier thanks to the library of this house and the team of professionals who care for it. I'm done now for good. The Basque Socialists urge the government and the professionals in the sector to convene as quickly as possible - because, well, I do not know if it will be six months, the transaction makes it very clear, as soon as possible; everyone understands what he has to understand, but of course, I think it is clear, there is a compromise there - as quickly as possible, as I say, that the government, together with the sector, will convene the Basque Library Advisory Council, and make the detailed and up-to-date diagnosis that is necessary in order to be able to continue working... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the Government, together with the sector, the Basque Library Advisory Council, and carry out the detailed and up-to-date diagnosis that is necessary in order to be able to continue working on the issue and on the updating and regulatory development of the law. But also one final appeal to all the groups in the House. Let us try not to forget this subject after the vote on this item has been completed. We will soon have the opportunity to get to work on the budgets for next year. Mr Zupiria has already advanced us in the inquiry that took place here at last week's control plenary session, which there were new developments in some of the items directly related to this subject. The Socialists, of course, also accept the invitation made by the Councillor in his speech, and we extend our hand to all groups to work together on budgets that reflect, among other things, our firm commitment to our Network of Public Libraries and to the whole ecosystem that makes it up. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u51	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mrs. Zuluaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u52	Good morning, Chief of Parliament. The deputy department, head of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. Undoubtedly evidence is the value of libraries, they were born with viscisitisation, and the services they offer are the most democratic places in society. Libraries give a public and free service in a public space, and for all of them, without making any distinction. It is a service which offers preparation, culture, and education, and consequently gives all men well-being. The library guarantees access to all men's knowledge and information, it's in the community's service, and today it provides more activity and services than reading books, magazines, and newspapers. In libraries, shows are scheduled, allows us to use new technology, and above all enables us to connect to people who have the difficulty of having all those computers and Wi-Fi services at home. He learns, you see movies or documentaries, and more. The library service catalog is also larger and larger. The libraries have changed a lot, so they'll have to go on with it. In this new Ternological world, books maintain value and importance for citizens, they have not lost their place, but we have several new alternatives. I'm not giving any data, Eukawa.us. All the data of 2021 is already published, available to everyone, and that's why I'm going to say some general data, or say, because the data isn't given. If we're talking about physical books, the reading has gone up, and the amount of loans has gone up. The loans between the libraries have also increased; the library has tripled its use, and the titles have been downloaded by 6% of loans, even though the catalog offer has not been reached to %2. The release catalog is still up, and new libraries are being included on the network. The number of partners in the library has also gone up. A lot of work has been done about library employees, directors, and libraries. And we must consider it, confess and thank you. They've done a great job. The initiative brought here today by this non-legislative proposal for the effective regulatory development of the Euskadi Library Act stems from an appearance held at the Culture Commission last June. On that day, the representatives of the Basque Association of Archives and Libraries and Communication Centres moved the issues that they are most concerned about in relation to the libraries and the service they provide. We talked today about the Euskadi Library Act, and we were told that the law was a successful and pioneering law, that maintains its potential, that they do not believe that it needs to be reformed or updated, but that it does need an important boost. According to their own words – and I quote textually – they said: "We advance at cruising speed, but it is necessary to make other decisions that lead us to other destinations". Looking back at what has happened in recent years, there are many initiatives promoted by the Government, and we can make a brief review of the projects that have been developed and implemented since the adoption of the law, which are the reason for this cruise speed, and of course the task carried out by librarians and librarians, one with the other. Some of these actions; e-Library, which allows through streaming, computer and any other device access to books, films, documentaries, magazines; the Euskarian digital library, which makes our digital heritage available to citizens in an easy and accessible way. This is one of the projects that should have been launched in this legislature, and we can already enjoy it. It is a unique repository and portal of access to all aspects of Basque culture, literature, documents, archives, material and intangible heritage, arts, images, a very long et cetera. This ambitious and innovative project has the vocation of being the reference at European level, and it will also be the provider that guarantees the presence of Basque culture in the European digital library in Europeana. Bilgunea, the catalogue that collects the information of the Basque Public Reading Network, all the municipal libraries of Euskadi and the libraries that are joining the network in a single collective catalog, the Liburubila searcher, which allows to search among all the cultural resources offered by the libraries, and consult and access thousands of books, films, documents, e-Books, and others selected by the libraries of the Reading Network. The bilingual catalogue of authorities, AUBI; the interlibrary lending system, a valuable and successful tool, and one of the most appreciated by the users of the Public Reading Network, and considered even a model to be exported to any territory. In the field of the digital agenda, the Government also launched the Ikanos initiative, to help and collaborate with the librarians' collective to develop their own... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... In the area of the digital agenda, the Government also launched the Ikanos initiative, to help and collaborate with the library community to develop their own professional and digital profile and to advance in the training of digital skills that are fulfilling their programming. It seems that things work; but we know, we understand, and so express themselves: There is room for improvement. And we put it on and we want to put focus on it. What it is that we can improve what we have to go from what we have. The sector defined the law of Basque libraries as a precursor, valid and permanent. It's a good thing to face the mills that present themselves to us. In this Illus, it is our duty to encourage the growth of the law, whenever it is thought necessary to do so by agreement. In June, this group of legislatures, which we are here, expressed the intention of reaching the subject, and the agreement to promote this necessary impulse. And we have come to this whole meeting with a collective agreement of the Popular and the several sects that support the Government. One middle way, we're not all here, and there's been a surprise here that some of us have heard. But it is true that in this medium we compel the Government. And what the Government has to do is plain: Let him observe the law of the Eucharistic library and its progressive development, and cultivate what is necessary for the regulating of rule in the articles of this law. And then, in the second part, we all gave the council the immense importance of advice, forcing the government, and telling him to do it in the shortest possible time. I don't know if it's better to put six months' platice, put eight months' platices on it, but when we put it in the shortest time, I think it's a commitment to everyone and we know that the government's clear and that it's on his schedule to do these things. We cannot allow the libraries to cease to be a public centre of society, culture, preparation, and well-being. Today we have our libraries on the highest level. It is true, and so it is because of the booksellers, and for all that the Government has hitherto done. I think we're going to give him a push here today and what we've agreed to, and I think we're going to continue that way. This two, perhaps, and if possible, I think the way is this: this arrangement. It's strange how some people have changed their point of view from morning till noon, but we won't get anywhere without agreement. And, well, to have a lesser or less compact, does not mean that it is not a good bargain. I think it's a good deal and the government has something to do first. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Zuluga. We'll take the answers turn. Popular Party-Ciudad, Mr Barriio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u54	Thank you, President. The first thing I want to say is to thank everyone, all the speakers, Mrs Zuluaga, Mr Alonso, Mr Estarrona and, in particular, Mrs González for an intense and genuine work. Moreover, well, their reflections on libraries as a democratic space have of course highlighted the importance of working on the tools we have to strengthen it. And in that sense, also take advantage to greet the representatives of ALDEE who also accompany us and who are following us today. I believe that we have put the matter, Mrs González, on the roof of the Government. And you can't get out of a session like this in relation to the outstanding subjects you have. I think it's good and it identifies what we've approved a mandate, it identifies. Well, it could have been... I too would have preferred to go in a somewhat more demanding line, but we have achieved what we have achieved. It is a mandate from which the Government cannot escape. For to convene and to make efforts to make the Advisory Council work, that is there, and thanks to you because it is your amendment, to Mr Estarrona, because they have spoken about this issue and it has been possible to place itself. And to work on regulatory development. I think that's clear and those two warrants are there. It is now up to us too, especially the opposition and the professionals, to see how the Executive works and walks in that direction. We have been able to start this small commitment to the Government, which I believe must become a great obligation. It may be a small requirement, but I believe that it does have to be a great obligation and an urgent responsibility to act on this issue. Of course, we as a group will follow the steps to this non-legislative proposal and to the work of the Executive. And I believe that in some way we have all agreed, in thanking the association, in thanking ALDEE for its contribution and its red light or its yellow light in relation to this issue. And that is true, it is true, everything that has been said by Aldee is right and must be done in the sense that has been requested and which Parliament is currently supporting. In that regard, one can speak, and I believe that the Government will also do very well to speak with professionals and experts on how to channel this dysfunction. Because, simply to conclude, Mr Alonso has also made it very clear, the professionals acknowledged that the law is good. So double dissatisfaction. Because a good law neutralized, self-neutralized, that does not work, ceases to be a good law and becomes nothing, or minimal. I believe that if it has potential, if it is a good law, then we will develop it, Mr. Zupiria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u55	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. Gonzalez, the word is yours... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...for we are going to develop it, Mr. Zupiria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u56	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. Gonzalez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u57	Well, I wanted to trust, I wanted to trust, and I trusted. And I've been trusting you for two years. But I declare myself now, not naive, or less innocent than when I started two years ago. It is true that I do not know much about the functioning of the Department of Culture because I am not in the Committee on Culture. But in the experience I have had in negotiations with other government departments, negotiations on non-legislative proposals calling for studies or research that require budget, I have made time commitments. In this case, a commitment of time for the meeting of an advisory council. It's just that it's inexplicable. It's inexplicable! Alberto was telling me strategy. No, no, no, I didn't work with strategy today. Today I've worked with the most visceral I have. And I really am optimistic by nature and I came this morning willing to convince you and willing to put everything I am and everything I have to say to you: "It is important that there is a minimum commitment from the government, there is a minimum commitment, which is a concrete time frame for that advice to be gathered." So, today I didn't follow a strategy, I went from the inside. That's how you've seen it, that's how you've seen me. And I think I'm very transparent about that. And I think that we are, moreover, in a space where listening is necessary, it is essential, the art of negotiation as well. And I also recognize that little by little I am learning. Sometimes it goes well and sometimes it doesn't go so well. I was talking a little bit about you commenting, didn't you, that from ALDEE they're pushing the council meeting. It seems to me that an obligation on the Government, which is to call the Library Advisory Council and bring it together, I do not think that leaving the third sector to weight. Anyone who sees from the outside the proposal, the compromise amendment that has been reached today, and reads what has been agreed, and reads the amendment proposed by my parliamentary group, I think it says: "With this agreement where are we going?". I see any of the compañeras who are working in libraries... And Mr. Barrio was commenting on it this morning, the day I said goodbye to my fellow librarians to embark on this new job they said to me, "Isa, please do everything you can to develop the library law." I, who have given you time today, not only today, but in preparing this initiative and so on, I leave here thinking that anyone who sees you from the outside is going to say we have achieved nothing. Today this plenary ends and nothing changes, neither for professionals, nor for users, nor for society in general regarding libraries. Well, it's true that the counselor is here. And I appeal to you, please, all that is in your hand to do and move so that at least the Library Advisory Council will meet as soon as possible. I wanted to take advantage to thank the board of directors of ALDEE: Eva, Hozkia, Karmele, Francisco, Yanira, Lola, Patricia, Miren and Fernando, who accompanies us here today, all the associates, for the space that is that association, a space where to share concerns, where they are formed and where, moreover, one can also develop professionally. By pushing that today we are talking here about libraries, because possibly without having asked for your attendance the same today we were also not talking here about libraries. I would also like to thank Oscar Arroyo, who is a person who has made a study of the different laws of libraries in the State - including the analysis of the Law of Libraries of Euskadi - and who has also served as an excuse and as an argument to bring the subject here. Also Alicia Sellés, from Fesabid, who in the distance also supports us. I wanted to thank and recognize the work that people do in the library service: Francisca, Patricia, Unai, Mikel and other people who accompany them because they are always there. And we're a lot of people... We were, I've included myself from before. But there are many people calling them from libraries and answering questions and queries that are often not easy. I also wanted to remind my companions, those of the library: Angela, Michael, Sara, Siera, Noelia, who also feel their support. It says a phrase that bad libraries create collections, good ones, create services and great ones create communities. And if it is true we want and want the government, as it says in its announcements, the common good, because it has to bet on them, not staying vague either from this Parliament or from the executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u58	Thank you, Mrs. González. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u59	Yes, thank you again. And good noon. Libraries. I believe that we all acknowledge the roles which they all fulfil, and I believe that, however this may be, there is a great deal in it for the professionals of the libraries, and also for the book-keepers of the people, and for those functions which are beyond their profession, but also for the goods which the Administration and the goods of the country have made. All administrations, in all administration levels: especially since the town halls, followed by the farms of the country, and the fun itself. I don't say, Mrs. Zuluga, that she has heard anyone say there was nothing done here about the libraries, arguing. I didn't hear that, did I? Maybe I haven't been very close. Besides, you've done your job very well, and you're just... Not just funk because some of the elements you've been talking about have been made out of institutionalization and collaboration. But the ones you've listed are there, for instance in the Basque box, and some others, and we're confessing them too, and we don't... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... for they are. But the ones you've listed are there, for instance in Basques and others, and we admit them too, and we don't have a problem for that. It's a reality. As reality is, the law is not implemented. Just as it is a reality that this law is not developed, and that it is not implemented, for example, the library system. If there is a network, there is a network, it is true, and it works properly. But it is not, it is not implemented, and that belongs to the Basque Government more to the law, or there is no planning of the services by the Basque Government, which is something that belongs to the Basque Government, and today the municipalities are doing it, or it is not designing a strategic plan of the Library - which is also contained in the law itself - or the Library of Euskadi that is contained in the law, which we do not know if Euskaran, Euskariana, do not know and we have already asked it repeatedly comes to replace what is the Library of Euskadi, or what is called the Library of Euskadi. The Council of Libraries is not constituted, or is not defined either, with the problems that this brings in the sector; the figure of the librarian. And knowing that there are multiple competences that come into play in this regard, the Basque Government also believes that it has enough to do and what to say. Or the accessible public reading map is not made; the first of them dates from 2007, together with the passing of the law itself, and then one in 2012 that we do not know very well why. And that too the sector has expressed, it is not accessible. Mr Alonso said that the transaction was very clear. I believe that the official bulletin is clearer, and that the publication of a law in the bulletin the next day will bring the law into force. I think it's clearer that that I don't know if there is, that what's published by law in the bulletin and that it comes into force, and the need to comply with the law. And it's just that I think the transaction doesn't know if it's very clear, but it's part of a false premise, part of a false premise. It is true that the law continues to be developed, when precisely what has motivated the initiative that is brought here today and the complaint that the sector has made is precisely that there is no development of that law. Therefore, which is very clear to the transaction, I repeat again, part of a false premise. And then we already enter into the interpretation, the good faith of what it means as little time as possible, whether it's six, eight months or as little time as possible or before the end of the year. All right, but we believe that beyond the total calculation of months requested is more the gesture of the Government and of acquiring that valued commitment, so that we can really see that there is a commitment to bring that Advisory Council together - which now remains a little, well, to the good will of the Government. And I think that everyone can make us and give us a subject and give us a very pretty speech for that, as long as they are the scopes for the development of tolerance and human values in the social function of libraries, in education, in culture, in training, and in the information as the means of promoting peace. And this is also received in the law. And there's no discussion at all. It is possible to say, I believe, that without doubt the libraries of Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzia have a social confession. But today a commitment, the sector that wanted a specific commitment, and it won't be accepted with a certain exact engagement rate. And then, as has been said before, I have mentioned at first that the law was a pioneer, according to the study I have mentioned. But since this is not used by the most important elements or means of update mechanisms, the law is somehow in its own nature. And even if we were our predecessors, I believe that if the chief physician does not work to-day on the engagement rate, I am obliged to thank him again for having been here in dispute, and how you have heard all this discussion, pues, well, we hope to hand in the direction of the law of the Library and of the sector, to −, to set up piles once and then for some time, and, somewhere, he will say what it means, when and when all these things will be gathered together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u60	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u61	Bai, mahaiburu. I'll be brief. At least try, Mr. Estarrona. I don't know if the transactional has become clear, I don't know if the newsletter is clear. I think you've spoken clearly. I believe that I, the Socialists, have spoken clearly. I have simply come down to clarify two issues, and I do not know, possibly speaking clear, but not sufficiently. You say, I thought I understood you, that I left the meeting in the hands of ALDEE. What I have said is that I urge the Government to sit with ALDEE - because I understand that the two sides are fundamental, are fundamental - to work on the diagnosis, because it is necessary first to leave the situation to get to work. Not at all have I put the ball on the roof of ALDEE, not much less. What I have said is that he is a fundamental agent, and that this will concern the government in terms of the call, but without ALDEE he does nothing. That's what I said. And for another matter, you simply say, if you allow me (...), if you allow me to address you in this way, the art of negotiating and the viscera you have spoken. Look, one of those books I used to pick up at the Faculty of Geography and History, one of Hirschman, talked about the need to... to achieve the interests, tame the passions. Many times in these matters it is necessary to know how to tame passions, and thus achieve interests. Because I'm leaving with a feeling too, and I'm not gonna be able to carry it on. And it is that in point two of the compromise amendment that is going to be voted on and approved today, where it says "the Basque Parliament urges the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policies to try to achieve in the shortest possible time", is a contribution from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. Group which, by the way, is going to vote against its own contribution. So, honestly... Look at the issue of passions, which many times, when they are above interests, are bad business. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Alonso... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...you look at the issue of passions, which many times, when they are above interests, are bad business. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mrs. Holega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u64	Listening here to some of the things we've heard, the Sailburu can go home quietly. Because it gives the impression that in this transactional that we have agreed to him nothing touches him, it seems that we would not have agreed anything at all and he goes with his hands in his pockets. I believe - and it may be clear - that in this transaction we do urge the Government to do certain things that are pending, which we have all recognized. And I didn't say nothing was done, Yellow Star. Nik esan dodana da gauza batzuk egin say it, gauza asko egin dira eta azpimarratu dauz. And then I tell you there's a lot more to do, and I think it's a good moment to give everybody an important push. And I think that doctrine is signed by this correction that things are both insisted on. In the first place, is there much to do? and that there is an agreement, and that all our wills are to be carried forward. And then on the other side, and it was very important for your amendments that the committee of advice should be convoked. It is true that you are willing to write that term with numbers, and that we have not written the numbers, but have written them in letters. And I don't know if it's a shorter time to make it six months, eight months, a year, or a few hours. I think we can do it and put focus on things that can improve us. And I think it's possible to agree here today to advance and encourage things as needed for this middle-class doguer. It's been 15 years? Yeah, 15 years. There are other things that pass by, which cannot be the most important, or yes, or no. But I think we have a way to do it. There'll be more opportunities to make a deal. But it's true, as Mr. −Alonso has said, we've been a little surprised that now, when you've said at the last moment, you're going to say no to this medium. I think things will be accomplished, and here a work for the Government will be put on the table. If another outside would come to me and come? ), think we don't ask the government for anything in my brother. Because we didn't spit alone for 15 years, and then we stopped. I think I can get you to take a walk in the middle of the road. And I think the dot is gonna be good for the whole world and, well, the most important thing. We all read a great deal and (guirk? ........ Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Zuluga. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-direction that the Basque Groups of Popula-Ciudadans, the Basque Socialists, and the Eucabertarians have signed. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 70; in favour of 45; oppositions, 25; Absences, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u66	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal as a parlamentary band of Misto-Vox, was to enter Elkano's Day in the Eukadical calendar. Discipline and final resolution. Ms. Martínnez, representative of the Mistto-Vox team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u68	Quiet, please. Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u69	What began as an attempt to establish a new maritime route between Spain and the Moluccas to attract to our country the precious nail of the Indonesian archipelago, ended up becoming one of the greatest exploits of humanity. And he was also a Basque, born in Getaria, a Spaniard who completed with a handful of men the first circumvalation by sea to the globe. A Basque and Spanishman named Juan Sebastián Elcano. Historians from all over the planet recognize this as one of the milestones of mankind, comparing it to man's arrival on the moon. They highlight the economic impact of the opening of new trade routes between Asia and Europe, and the knowledge of dominant winds and currents fundamental to safe navigation of the immense Pacific Ocean. That nearly three-year journey brought the discovery of previously unknown sea steps, such as the Strait of Magellan, and cartographic details of vast areas of the planet until then unknown in Europe. Also the true location of the continents on the globe, as well as the size of the continents and the oceans that bathe their coasts. Such an act made possible the connection and exchange with cultures of which until then there was no news. The first step to weave a network of cultural, economic, agricultural and biological exchanges, with those, the first manifestation - as we can determine - of economic, social and cultural globalization. That epic adventure began 503 years ago in Sanlúcar de Barrameda and ended three years later in the same Spanish port. There were 239 men on board five ships, but only one of them, Nao Victoria, managed to get back to the Spanish coast. He did it with only 18 sailors on board. He was captaining the ship... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... but only one of them, the Nao Victoria, managed to get back to the Spanish coast. He did it with only 18 sailors on board. He was captaining the ship Juan Sebastián Elcano, born in Getaria, on November 30, 1486, since then considered Spanish and Basque universal. On September 6, we commemorated the 500th anniversary of the culmination of such an event in a succession of events that, contrary to what usually happens in this region, counted on the participation and protagonistship of all political formations represented in this Chamber; consensus generalized around the figure of Elcano and unanimous recognition, completed crime, in addition to the enormous dimension of it, which supports the incorporation of the said September 6 in the festive calendar of the Basque Country. We will again exchange positions and opinions ourselves and the representatives of the People-Citizens Group, if I am not mistaken, and will continue without having their own day the only day of Spain, which is this community. We have 17 autonomous communities and two autonomous cities. Well, there are only 18 official days, one more hedge exit from the Basque Autonomous Community. Next Tuesday, 25 October, there will be parties celebrating their particular day in Euskadi on the occasion of the 43rd anniversary of the adoption of the Basque Autonomous Statute. Also, it became the official day of our region, an initiative that started from socialists and popular, then traveling companions, not always well-off, to take the PNV out of its throne, to raise Ajuria Enea to Patxi López. But the experience lasted rather little, until Basque nationalism regained the place that it considers to be his alone. The PNV again left the Basque Country without an official day, committed to turning its Aberri Eguna into the day of all Basques, although it is far from representing even half of the Basques. And his partner, his current partner, the PSE, allowed him without any complaint, with that submission he's used to lately. And what about the left abertzale; it is to assume that they will also trade various alternatives for their Basque nation to have their own day on the official holiday calendar. I understand that they will doubt between the anniversary of the kidnapping of Lasa and Zabala or that of his theatre of Aiete, of that which they want to turn into a historical milestone, obviously, only for his parish, because for the rest of the parliamentary arch barely passes from the consideration of bad theatrical work, immediately dismantled by his charismatic leader Mr Otegi. Perhaps they are also thinking of the anniversary of Txapote's birth or that of his beloved Josu Ternera. Thus, it seems unthinkable the agreement about the Aberri Eguna as the day of Euskadi, as it would be, for example, on 18 October and other abertzales substitutes, but on 25 October it does not achieve enough consensus. It will also be interesting to see where the minority partner of the Government comes from today, which just over a decade ago supported 25 October as the official day of this autonomous community, which is, moreover, what the People-Citizens group proposes to us today with a good title, at least to bother a PSOE who feels comfortable supporting the PNV in its nationalist drift. We, of course, are going to vote against this amendment, which has made PP-Citizens, in an exercise of coherence. And I say coherence, because, as you know, in Vox we are convinced that the state of autonomy is bad news for Spain and the Spanish. We have seen it repeatedly: we have suffered it in a pandemic, with a veritable demise of measures and restrictions that generated enormous confusion among Spaniards; we are suffering it now, with the proliferation of fiscal measures to minimize the impact of the current energy, economic and social crisis that we suffer; and we have suffered them every day, with a Spanish Government that has made weakness its main sign of identity, weakness and assignment to its partners, among which two formations are highlighted, committed to ending the territorial unity of Spain and that use their power to break, to obtain more privileges for this region and to amplify the inequality between Spaniards. So, in Vox, Mr. Barrio, we have nothing to celebrate on October 25th. And, like us, a lot of Basques. However, around Elcano there is no division: all the parties represented here have recognized their achievements and the impact of that senseless adventure that became one of the historical milestones of our humanity, if not the most important historical milestone of our humanity. In addition, Elcano brings together in one person sensibilities that some parties strive to present as irreconcilable: Elcano was Basque, he was born in Gipuzkoa, in Getaria; and he was Spanish, born in a Spanish village of a Spanish region, illustrious Basque Spanish sailor who captained a Spanish expedition in his last months of singling. For the incorporation of Elcano's day into the official holiday calendar of the Basque Country there are more than enough reasons; also for that day to be recognized the different sensibilities present in this region. But, well, it is unfortunate that in what should be the house of the word we will not listen to all the groups present here. Something unacceptable, of course, from a democratic point of view; it shows that this institution has given up being the representation of all Basques. Maybe we're wrong, we'll see about that soon. Elcano, with c or k, does represent everyone we live here or those we were born here, we feel only Basques, only Spanish, half and half, and three quarters here and a quarter there. Could it be every September 6th the day of all of us living here? Would that make sense? Obviously, but it's not going to be. And it is a pity that the illustrious Basque and Spanish sailors do not know that the Basque Parliament rejected the official holiday of 6 September just because it was proposed by a party named Vox. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u70	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u71	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, what I have to do is thank Mrs Martínez for her initiative, and also for reading the explanatory statement and the text she has given us. I think it is good and timely, it is an interesting argument that we share and value in relation to what has happened and the key elements and moments of our history and of the history of Spain and of the history of our land. I mean, I think that should be valued. And, of course,... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...keys to our history and the history of Spain and the history of our land. I mean, I think that should be valued. And, of course, we have also seen this year how the event has been marked by the celebration this year of the 500th anniversary of the return to the world and the protagonistship that Elcano, Juan Sebastián Elcano, had in that great work of history. I believe that we have been able to participate in this. Some of those we sit here today because we were in Getaria a few weeks ago in a curious and festive act of remembrance of that ephemeride. We are of course taking part in that meeting with the Lehendakari, the President of Parliament and other public representatives. And we also made it happy and in an atmosphere of many people who surrounded us, of many public representatives, of the Orpheon Donostiara and, well, a symbolic representation of what humanity is and the twinning between peoples. I think it was a nice, symbolic day after the 500th anniversary. Indeed. And there was something to celebrate. And we celebrate it. And we celebrate it. And of course we also appreciate the sensitivity of those who had the opportunity to formalize that day at that time and this year because they decided so. But I want to focus on my amendment, which does not want to demerit your proposal at all, Mrs Martínez, but which sets itself in another priority. It's a priority for us. I see - and you have made it very clear - that not for you. But for us it is a priority to celebrate the Statute of Gernika and to do so as we have historically done as well. That is why I am grateful for the possibility of including our proposal, I say again, and of course I appreciate yours. We must continue to demand something that this Parliament has already adopted at the time, as you have recalled, that Law 2/2010 of 22 April on the declaration of 25 October as Basque-Euskadiko Eguna Country Day. This is indeed a historic, historical, political and democratic precedent of an important day. The best democratic news that the Basques have had in our history: the Statute of Gernika, under the umbrella of the Constitution and constitutional legality, but the Statute of Gernika as a framework of coexistence, as a framework of political competence, as a framework of development, that is what we have to celebrate. There's a lot to celebrate there. There's a lot to celebrate. We have to celebrate this Parliament in which we have been working and acting for 43 years. Our self-government, in constant development, that is, thanks to the Statute of Gernika. It is not a dead object or much less, it is a living object, which is constantly developing them in this debate on the transfers being negotiated, which are being reached with this Government, with other Governments, with greater or lesser difficulties, but it shows that it is something alive. It is therefore something to celebrate our foral reality and the personality of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa within this democratic and freedom framework given us by the Statute. The defeat of those who wanted to end the Statute must also be celebrated in the framework of the Statute, as well as those who expressed enemies of the Statute. Well, we have a lot to celebrate. And that is why I believe that, taking advantage of your idea and taking advantage of your initiative, we have made an approach of remembrance, of remembering that we celebrate as an official day, as a feast of this autonomous community, on the day of the Statute, I say again, because it is an experience of success, it is an experience that has developed this society democratically as nothing in our history and that we have to remember. In this Statement of Reasons, which was stated in the 2010 Act when the Statute of Autonomy was adopted in this Parliament, adopted in a referendum on October 25, 79, that is to say 43 years ago, constitutes by popular will our basic institutional norm and instrument of access to self-government under the Spanish Constitution of 78. And that's the big reality. The Statute of Gernika continues to constitute today - this Statement of Reasons in 2010 - the most comprehensive agreement reached within Basque society at least in the last century. I said that in this framework for the first time in the history of Alaves, Gipuzcoans and Vizcaínos we share an institutional territorial organization that has made possible the development of Basque autonomy. And as a result, as an article it was said that the day... the Basque-Euskadiko Eguna Day is declared on 25 October, anniversary of the approval of the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika, which will have the character of official holiday for all purposes, including labor, in the autonomous community. This is a historical precedent that we bring back here taking advantage of its initiative, which, I say again, seems very interesting, very timely, gives us the opportunity, at the door of the celebration of the Statute next Tuesday, next day 25, because to remember it and ask, as we did on 22 April, to ask that the official feast of Euskadi continue to be the approval of the Statute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Miss Mistto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Barrio, I will address you and your parliamentary group exclusively. And I will do so because they are the only ones who deserve our parliamentary respect. Every Thursday, as today, Vox brings to this House an initiative as licit as that which can be presented by any other parliamentary group. And you know what's going on? That you intervene, debate, put your differences with ours on the table and the rest of the parliamentary groups mimetize with their armchairs, something totally denouncing. Mr Barrio, we may or may not agree on the initiatives. Each one argues his reasons, his disagreements and we are able to exchange opinions in a respectful and democratic way, which they have put us here for. So, Mr. Barrio, I'm going to put you on record of what's going on in this House.... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... exchange views in a respectful and democratic way, which they have put us here for. So, Mr Barrio, I will put you on record of what is happening in this House, which you already know a lot about, but I will put you on record. We have a parliamentary group that bears the banner of human rights and pretends to come here every day to teach us lessons as if they had invented human rights, when they have been the ones who have most undermined the human rights of all Basques that we did not communicate with their desire for Basque independence. On the other hand, we also have a parliamentary group that bears the flag of feminism with its full range of colors. And it does, in addition, a party that claims to defend all women. That is so, only to those who are on their rope and are submissive in terms of their gender ideology; if they are contrary to their postulates or are right-wing, they keep the flag of feminism in their pink bag and look elsewhere. We have another parliamentary group that bears the flag of justice and inclusion, and they do not debate with Vox, because -attentions - according to their naivety, we are Machists and racists. They worship a being who despised women and said that the Spanish – models, in a derogatory way – were illiterate and had the intelligence of a monkey. Yeah, I'm talking about Sabino Arana. And we have another parliamentary group that I don't know what flag it is, because a few days it's one, a few days it's another; but what we can say is that, right now, right now, the flag that it has is that of the lie. We'll never deal with separatists - he stayed in the eco -, we'll never deal with communists, because we won't be able to sleep peacefully. What I don't know is how they sleep, because they not only agreed but are part of their government. I mean, they do just the opposite of what they promise. So these four parliamentary groups, Mr Barrio, conjure up here and make their own a word like a health cord, to do that to Vox, a health cord, when we all know that what they promote is apartheid and bullying, democratic bullying. We're going to have to establish it as a novelty. So, Mr. Barrio, today we will leave here without official day of the Basque Country, without officializing the annual recognition that deserves a Spanish and Basque sailor, born in Getaria, and named Juan Sebastián Elcano. Surely, you and I will not be here, or many of those sitting here, to see how this milestone is commemorated within 100 years, in 2122. By then, they may have been able to shape history in such a way that Elcano is only Basque, nationalist and perhaps also independentist. So, all of this said, Mr Barrio, perhaps we should think, soon, every time we discuss our differences - which of course we have, but we are able to discuss them - we should do it in a cafeteria, with a pintxo and a coffee, so as not to disturb your lordships. That, Mr Barrio, is what we would pay with our money, not as this government and its societies that pay for pintxos and coffees at the cost of the public treasury; that is, of the money of all Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u74	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Popular groups from there, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u75	Thank you very much, President. No, just, from the seat, to... Mrs Martínez, I share with you the indignation at the treatment with which the groups, with which parliamentary and political groups who call themselves democratic, use with you. I share that indignation. It seems unbearable to me. In a society where what we have to build is coexistence, dialogue, discrepancy, and get used to it. And, of course, even the most strident ways we can know, but we have the possibility of dialogue of the word to share our differences and do so, especially when the citizens choose us. Sanitary cords for the infectious spaces of hospitals, not for coexistence, and not for dialogue. I sympathize with you, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. After discussion, we're going to vote with the original text of our proposition as the Mistto-Vox team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour 1, 64; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u77	Not accepted. We're going to vote for the full correction of Popular-Ciudados next. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; in favour of 6, 6; the opponents, 65; Absences, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u78	Not accepted. "The fifth point in the subject list: EH Collect the proposition as well as parlamentary groups, as the confusion of autism (AEN) in Euscal Autonomia in the Eria Erria. Discipline and final resolution. Team up turn, Mrs. Garde, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word initiative to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u79	Good evening to all: Congress, chief officers, President. Well, it's not, I'm sorry. Well, in particular, today's farewell is for the autism members of the Abaka; they haven't arrived yet, they're expecting it. But today we are actually here discussing this suggestion about the confusion of the autism spectrum, their commitment and their impulse... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ...benetan gaur hemen bagaud autismaren spectroko nahasmenduaren inguruko proposeen hau eztabaidatzen eurei esker izan da, euren konpromiso eta bullzaziari esker. So today we can only start with thanks for the work they do every day and for pushing and pushing this Parliament too to improve the attention we give to people with autistic spectrum disorders and their families. Because they are full citizens and therefore deserve to develop their life projects with dignity and occupy their own space in this society. So fast, thank you and tell him we'll keep going. For today we have an arrangement, and I would like to put it in value, but it is true that the agreement itself is neither end nor end, but that it is a step forward, but nothing more. And hope, too, that the first step of many others. According to WHO, one in 160 children is estimated to have an ASD. A frequency similar to that of the alzheimer, so that we get a little bit of an idea. But for this very reason it is estimated that there would be about 15,000 cases in Euskadi, and as each of them has a minimum impact on three other people, especially in the family sphere, since there has been talk of a direct impact on 60,000 people. I could be older, though. And I say it could because there is still little information on the situation of people with ASD in our territories. But what has been found, also with some concern, in recent years is that there has been a considerable increase in the number of cases. And it is true that this increase may have different reasons. Among other things, there should be greater awareness, that diagnostic criteria have been expanded, but either in any way or in any way, the reality is that more cases are coming to associations and more cases to the system itself. And, then, it is clear that the response given to this new reality needs to be adapted. Because at the moment the systems are quite overwhelmed as far as the ASD's attention is concerned. And we can't keep doing the same thing and we can't keep doing the same thing when what we have in front of us is more necessary. It is urgent to give an answer. The collective and the families also deserve it. But what is autism? I think it's important to explain briefly but well what autism is itself. In accordance with the definition of today, we need to discuss the confusion of autism spectrum. I mean, when we talk about a spectrum, that means we have more than one complication inside us. Auism is common to childhood and it's for life. So it's not something that heals, it's not something that's going to disappear. Further, in the case of the case of the case, there are very different kinds of change. But still there are some common elements: A social communication and interaction difficulties, restrictive or repeated patterns of conduct, interest, or activities; and hyper or hipores with the stimulus of the senses. Thus things, autistic spectrum disorders or ASD refer to a group of diverse, complex and chronic conditions. It is often detected in early childhood, and early detection and child support are key to development. It should also be noted that people with autism often have other conditions: epilepsy, depression, anxiety, attention deficit disorder, hyperactivity. And also important: the intellectual level varies greatly from case to case. We can talk about a profound deterioration, even very high cognitive abilities. What this means or does is that we have a lot of diversity in the reality of autism or ASD. Guzti honekin, an agerian utzi nahi duguna da litekeena de la TEA duen partesona batek bizitza osoan zehar laguntzak eta babesak behar behar seizada. Eta horiek joan behar say the aldatzen depends on age partons horrek zer eboluzio Egypt two. Hortaz, modu pertsonalizetuan egokitu behar zazkie, eta momentuan momentau eta bizitzako guztietan stage. Interventions, support resources that adapt to the needs of each person with ASD at every moment of life. Because, eye, their development and their quality of life and that of their families and of their nearest surroundings will be closely linked and very conditioned to the access they have to these interventions or not. And this is the political responsibility that we have before us today. The objective must be to maximize opportunities for development, learning and social inclusion. Because the opposite is to turn your back on a whole collective. And in this context, it should be noted that associations such as Arab Autism warn of the scarcity of public resources to attend to the TEA and for professionals to carry out their work properly. And from the associative fabric, and with a great deal of effort and dedication, it is true that they are giving answers and reaching out to what is not coming from the public. But this can't be. The third sector is always going to be there, yes, and there has to be a tandem, there has to be a collaboration, but the responsibility and the weight of attention lies with public systems. Because it is the only way, moreover, to ensure that it is treated with equity and universality. And considering all this, by the hand of the Auraun Autism Society, we presented another legal proposal in the previous year's study. The Fellowship was followed by different occurrences of the legislature. And from the demands which we have made, the contrary proposition was born, and consequently the agreement we have in common to-day. And the end was clear: to take a turn and a shove into the state of autism, and also from a transversal glance. And this is very obvious in the arrangement, and very important, because it touches different systems, fields, and departments. And that's the only way to work. The only way. We must place the glue in the centre, and look at these persons with a broad glance, and the necessity of looking at them. Eta akordioan sartu nahiko nuke apura bata esta azaldu apura puntuz puntu. Lehenengo puntuan Azterketa beat Egypt jasotzen yes. And why? Because information, scientific evidence and data are quite scarce. And this is corroborated by the last study, the last research study report conducted by Osteba. Osteba is the Euskadi Health Technology Assessment Service. And in collaboration with the Basque Government, the Department of Health and the Ministry of Health, it published a publication in January 2022 - quite recently. But it's true... well, I mean, there's already a starting point. But this study looks more at detection, diagnosis and grooming and not so much - because it is true, you cannot look at everything in all the studies - but not so much what is asked at this point to look at a little, to the intervening systems and to an analysis of the resources existing today in Euskadi. And also a little by taking the popular party's contribution of how the different systems coordinate with each other... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...to this day in Euskadi. And also a little by taking the popular party's input on how the different systems coordinate with each other, right? Because, in the end, the report also makes it clear, attention to multidisciplinary teams, and that interdepartmental attention is essential to give comprehensive attention. And well, and besides, this study comes to answer that the report itself... If you want me to read you textual, huh? But... he says there's no evidence and there's still no evidence... that quality research needs to be promoted. So, this point came a little to answer that: to the need to know what exactly the reality of ASD is, right? At the second point, we deal with the formation of professionals. And this is very important. And not only important, but to protect the collective, and protect the collective, but to protect the workers, and give them tools, that they may do their work as best they can. And even in Ostebá, it is also said that interventions must develop personalities which have a proper and specific form. Of course not. But in this too one must advance, and one must go deeper. Thirdly, continue to promote policies that guarantee the full inclusion of the collective of people with ASD in our society. Well, noski bayetz. Eta hor ere jaso dugu batez ere Elkarrekin Podemos-Iuk egindako ekarpena; I imagine that later Jon will explain it a little better, but well. Bai, noski. Irisgarritesa una éta inklusioan a arre egitea ezinbastekoa da, éta, batez ére, eskubideak babesteko. Zeren, tamalez, egun, oraindik ere, gurean, bazterkeria, stereotypeak eta stigmak drinking horretan diraute. It's good, it's honorable, it's noski, it's buelta bat eman behar diogüere. In the fourth place, this is especially the case with education. Jo, and it's a pity the chief physician won't be here today, but I'm sure he'll get there. As has been said before, many people who have a great deal of knowledge have difficulty in communication, have they not? Most people don't have verbal communications. But this does not mean that they have neither capacity nor capacity to communicate, they are different things, but that they require other means of communication. And for that, the use of new technology is actually small, and especially those which are called the SAAC systems, the Aumentatismos y alternativos. But we must be flexible in this, because I don't get out of the house and leave my language in the house. And I don't reach Parliament, and I activate another language. No, my language is my own tool, to communicate me with all others, and to understand all others. And it is the same with those who have an opinion, but in this case they need a device to communicate. But it doesn't make much sense to have a device at home and one at school, no. They need the same stuff at home, at school, in the park, on the bus... Yeah. So I'd ask for flexibility in this, and when this fourth point is carried forward to think about it, too, and, well, there's a right to communicate in the end, isn't there? Eta, azkenik, bosgarren score. Develop and implement in Osakidetza a protocol of action for users with TEA. And this has cost a bit. (Similarly?), will explain the rest of the comrades why; I'm not going to get into it much either. But it is fundamental, and I would also like to thank you for being able to approve and for having a protocol of action in Osakidetza, is it not? Because for many people with ASD getting close to the health system means a lot; a whole world sometimes, right? Because a simple consultation, a test, taking blood, going to emergencies..., supposes to be waiting, as we can all expect, but for a person with the same ASD cannot be in a room waiting long: the stimuli, the noise, the light, the people, the unknown spaces, the alteration of routines..., all this generates a lot of anxiety. Even sometimes there are people who can't stand physical contact. So, imagine yourself for any test or intervention you have to do, it's super basic. Then, they are complicated situations, but it is very necessary that there is a protocol that facilitates access to the system. Because, moreover - we have explained earlier - they are people who have associated other diseases, and then they will be very users of the system; it is that they will need to pass through Osakidetza, through their different structures, many times in their life. And well, you have to give them a nicer way to do it, don't you? Because, if not, they don't come, and they stay at home, and well, and this can cause them - and it brings them - many difficulties in their health. And well, and we all know that accessibility to the system is one of the pillars, and we have to respond to that. So, this point was important, it has been achieved, and I am very grateful for it. And nothing, and I'm done. We believe that the reality of autistic spectrum disorder requires an impulse from a cross-sectional approach, as I have explained. And well, I think we have to say that today resources are scarce, that professionals, families and people with ASD need more support to improve their quality of life. Because it is the same thing to have a dignified life, a personal development, with the possibility of participating in their communities... They are rights, they are rights that can be exercised, and they will be exercised depending on whether they have access to interventions and support. I mean, it's fundamental. Eta hori gure ardu da. We used to say at first that people who are involved in the carbon spectrum are people of full right and worthy to have a proper place in our society. So, sin más, for the end, thank all the members of the team who have contributed. It was easy to make a deal. Well, we've had a few incidents, haven't we? ; there are things left on the way. But I think they'll be grateful from the community, too. They're happy. And, and I said, A step forward. And thanks too... They're here too, Appledu and Artolarill. They're also part of your department, and, poes, well, let's move forward. And we'll follow him, too, huh? The deal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u80	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u81	Yes, thank you. Well, it is obvious, or so we have been able to see in the Health Committee, although, indeed, as Mrs Garde said, well, we think it is clear, that it is not just a health issue but an interdisciplinary one. But today there are gaps in our autonomous community in regard to the attention that the Government must give to people with autistic spectrum disorders. We've checked... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... With regard to the attention that the Government must give to people with autistic spectrum disorders, we have seen it from the hands of the associations, reference has been made to it, and an initiative was presented to us, in our view, to promote precisely those necessary improvements. We made an amendment, where we basically added some question that was not included in the original initiative and that we did not invent ourselves, but that we had heard it precisely to the associations that have passed through this House, and moreover, as always we also wanted to focus a little on the importance that we give to ensuring that in this case the full attention to people with autistic spectrum disorder is guaranteed from the public, always in collaboration, of course, with the associations that do excellent work, but putting at the centre the importance of the public as guarantor of the attention to these people. Well, I believe that an agreement has been reached between four groups that has a number of points that are an impulse and the Government is urged to make a number of improvements that, in our view, will produce that, if, logically, progress is made, an improvement in that integral and interdisciplinary attention to people with autistic spectrum disorder, and therefore, we do not have much more to say. We have signed the transaction, it seems to us a positive initiative. We understand, we are also sure, that the associations that have taken the trouble of going through this Parliament also to explain the issue, we understand that they will value it as a positive step, and therefore, well, we are happy with that agreement, we will vote for it, and I will not further develop the issues that I think Mrs Garde has already put on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the popular group of Basques, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u83	Thank you, Mr. President, chief of departments, good morning, congressmen. Gaur autismareen espektro nahasteari buruzko proposeen bat daukagu. I too would like to greet the Arab Autism Association of Álava for its magnificent work, and above all for bringing this issue to the Basque Parliament. I believe that it was also a very rigorous intervention and that it allowed us, as I said, to know the growing reality of what autism is in Álava and in the whole of Euskadi, as well as the population affected has multiplied in recent years in an important way, and above all also as it has been said here from this rostrum, by an early diagnosis, which has (?) also enabled early attention to be given to the affected persons. It has been mentioned that there are 15,000 cases in Euskadi, and in addition, people who have a family member with autism, well, they also have the direct impact of what it is like to have a person with autism in their family. I think we have a wide deal on this subject. We also believe that the arranged points are necessary, and we're giving our commitments to the Eucommene, and we hope that you're also going to set up and do what you've done here, and we'll be on our guard. We also put forward an amendment in which we stressed that the necessary support and resources should be given to people with autism, and that the specific protocols should also be adopted. And we were also focusing on an aspect that we think is fundamental, which is coordination between the various areas and the various departments and specific areas that need to be involved in the treatment of people with autism. In that sense, well, these are the points that have also been taken up in the compromise amendment, which, as I say, we are going to subscribe to. And, above all, I think it is important that this agreement reflects the demands of the collective. I would also like to thank the sensitivity of the groups supporting the Government, and especially the departments directly involved, Mrs Artolazabal, Counsellor, and Mrs Sagardui, and the rest of the departments such as Education, which may also be affected by specific issues covered by this broad agreement. Like I said, well, we'll obviously be vigilant. I believe that this is a step forward, and above all, because we are helping a collective that, as we are seeing, is growing, and we cannot turn our backs on it, and in this regard, I believe that we are taking an important step in this Parliament today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u84	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Little more to say, today we simply have a good agreement regarding the comprehensive care of people with autistic spectrum disorders, and this agreement is born – as Mrs Garde has explained – of an appearance of the Arab Autism Association. Let me especially greet Mrs Red and acknowledge the work they have been doing since this association, and also in contact with other associations that have been working at Euskadi level in this same area. We were given a very clear picture of the problems with which families were in accessing certain public actions and policies launched by the Government, and I think we have done among all of us an exercise of pragmatism and political practice, to give solutions to what the citizens are asking us in this Parliament. I'm not going to stop at each... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... of pragmatism and political practicality, of giving solutions to what the citizens propose to us in this Parliament. I am not going to stop at each of the points in the agreement, but to say that this initiative has been an example of how we can all work to solve real problems of Basque citizenship, and I think it is an example to follow in future initiatives. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u86	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Euneraries, Mme Ruiz de Alegria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u87	Bai. President andrea, Sailburuok, legebiltzarkideok, eguerdi on. Greeting also the representatives of Arab Autism who are with us today. I'm out of my mind. Being different is not being unequal. Being different... Be different sum. We are all different, and we are all equal before the law. If we want to apply the meaning of this phrase in depth, it is not enough to eliminate discrimination against this enormous group. We must guarantee the full enjoyment of their rights. And not by chance, but because we are legally bound. I'm not going to stop at the description of the ASD condition, because Mrs. Garde has already fabulously done so. I also thank EH Bildu for the initiative, which is an ever-enriching debate. And I am especially grateful to you for Mrs Garde's efforts and affection to reach an agreement, and also for the will shown by the rest of the speakers. We've reached an agreement. An agreement that can be assumed by all, an agreement that, although with nuances, has united us, to which we have been able to live up to all. We have not suffered from bad heights, and we have abandoned maximalist positions. And that was based on an inexhaustible issue for us: the implementation of a health card of preference to people with autism. We are far from initiatives that only point and mark a collective, giving it a different attention. And we are far away because it is a proposal contrary to normalisation and inclusion. Contrary to the right of citizenship and to equitable and equal access to the right to health. In addition, the partiality they raised, meant an aggravation with the rest of the target groups. In the end, at this point we have reached a consensus, not without effort, in which we have been able to yield all. I agree that the Basque Parliament should develop and implement within the Basque Health Service a protocol of action for users and users with ASD to respond to their specific needs; in the same way, the needs arising from any other disability group should be met. Because based on the fact that each syndrome, condition or disability has its own characteristics, life experience, micro-discrimination, barriers and challenges are cross-cutting to all groups with some disability. The public authorities are under an obligation to address disability as a whole, with comprehensive, cross-cutting and multisectoral policies, giving an integral content to a phenomenon that is dimensional. Persons with disabilities are the largest minority in the world. 10% of the world's population has some kind of disability, and all of us at some point are going through a disability, and therefore all of us are responsible for making the barriers and challenges of people with disabilities less challenging. To this end, we must act in many areas: health, education, social or training, always with an integral vision. In Euskadi we have been defining our own strategies for decades, seeking the personalization and proportionality of each user's needs. Mrs Garrido also proposed in her own initiative, in her amendment, a strategy which is to promote the National Strategy in Euskadi. Tell him that we have our own skills to develop exclusive competences in education, health and social policy. All this is being done thanks to collaboration between all the different institutional areas and the entities of the third sector. We lead social protection and inclusion policies from the belief that community building implies accepting that public space is constructed in a shared manner between institutions and society. This is our model, a solid, solid model of social and health care. A model centered on the person. A continuous and longitudinal model improves. A model that collaborates and innovates alongside society. To this end, we have established a network of services which, from the perspective of this community care, provides assistance and support, both to individuals, families and their families. A fundamental pillar. The family members we care for people with disabilities are the ones we know best. We know your tastes, your interests and your needs. We collaborate with professionals who are involved in the intervention. We are your main reference and your support and stability framework. At the moment, the ASD has no cure, but the quality of life of those suffering greatly improves if it is detected at an early age and measures are applied to alleviate associated behavioral problems. Early detection processes are dramatically changing the lives of boys and girls. Those who have not been diagnosed at an early age have reached the adult state with varying degrees of social or intellectual dysfunction. Our goal is to understand and care for individuals and families in their contexts of life, beyond diagnostic labels and from an ethical perspective; listening, participating and collaborating. A person cannot be tied to his or her diagnosis, and has the right to be thought and conceived far beyond him or her, receiving support, mechanisms and policies so that he or she can develop in equality and in harmony with others. Together with the fundamental principle of non-discrimination, the principle of accessibility must be understood as an essential pillar. Today no one discusses the need to put ramps, the use of braille, or the tongue of signs. However, cognitive accessibility is lacking in the design of services, products, buildings and public spaces. Accessibility to facilitate understanding. Integrate cognitive accessibility within the field of... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... services, products, buildings and public spaces. Accessibility to facilitate understanding. Integrating cognitive accessibility within the scope of universal accessibility is a purpose shared by our group and agreed in the compromise amendment. Cognitive accessibility is an activity that can be regulated not only by the Government but also by local entities. More and more towns and cities are transforming their environments, services and products and making them fully inclusive, accessible and educational. Because cognitive accessibility is also a right that ensures access to many others, such as education, health or social participation. With regard to the right to education of persons with ASD, equality of opportunity is based on the principle of inclusion, guaranteeing both primary and secondary education. Education therefore becomes a key element in achieving the integration and personal autonomy of the individual. We will continue to promote, as has also been reflected in the transaction, the inclusion of TEA students in the educational system, promoting and guaranteeing support, resources, spaces, methodologies - as well as SAACs and others - including digital techniques, to enable the communication of people with TEA and students with communication difficulties with processes adapted to each student and to ensure access to and use of devices. Because we are moving towards an inclusive model with equal opportunities, an inclusive model, whose values we will be able to reinforce when the education bill is introduced in this Parliament. I invite you to work together to improve attention to special educational needs. I'm going to put in some figures. In May of this year in Euskadi he had attended 4,534 TEA students, 3,878 in ordinary classrooms and 656 in stable or task-learning classrooms. Students with ASD in ordinary classrooms have complementary personal support resources, while students in stable classrooms are cared for by (doing?) staff assigned to the classroom. Finally, we cannot listen deafly to the reality of our environment. Our commitment is a commitment to human well-being. We have nothing but further research into transforming the world for all people, not just for people with disabilities, as reflected in the 2030 Strategy. Then, we must understand and continue to investigate in this intimate, real and profound belief that each person is full in dignity, in addition to being unique and unique. And that disability does not permeate the person's life. Human diversity also permeates every person as well as persons with disabilities. And, finally, we congratulate ourselves on the agreement. An agreement that is a great step in the humanization of the system, not only for people with ASD, but for all people with disabilities. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u88	Eskerrik asko, Ruiz of Joy andrea. Does anyone want to be part of the answer shift? No. End of discussion, we're gonna vote EH Collect, together Podemos-Nozzerzka, Eukal Socialists and Eubertarian corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters of 71; contraries, 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-20.u89	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two o'clock in the afternoon.
