ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u0	Good morning, everyone. Please, sit in your chairs, please. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we shall call the Member of the New House of the Great Mountains. Good morning. After that, we'll have a minute's silence for Mr. Gregor Ordoñez. [[One minute's silence]] I may inform you that the two lords and ladies have inherited the vote, that the fourth point in the subject will be discussed in the eighth place, and the eighth point in the fourth place; the seventh point on the subject has been left for another, and the ninth is retired. First point in theme list: "Separation of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, the state of the candidate's compatibility in the election of the Senator of Euscal Autonomy, the Esquire. There is a debate and a final decision, and there may be a vote for the election of the senator." Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Are any of the legislatures willing to speak against or against the judgment? That's all we're going to vote for. We're gonna vote for the union committee's resolution. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 70; the votes given, 72; the opponents 72; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u1	So he's unanimous. Therefore the judgment is approved. Next, each group of legislatures, from the smallest to the greatest, is five minutes' round. Anybody want to talk? No, right? 4.1981 Laws, and Articles of the Acting of the Acts of the Common-wealth, are to be done by cardcards, and the name of one candidate in the Cards is written. First of all, the first secretary at the desk will get a number and then contact the congressmen. It starts from seven numbers. The first secretary at the table will call the congressmen to vote. The first secretary at the table has called the parliamentary members, Arrese Orka, beginning with the Lord of lété, to vote. [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] The first secretary at the table has called the parliamentary members, Arrese Orka, beginning with the Lord of lété, to vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u2	[[Pause]] [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u3	[[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: Gil Invernón, Alfonso, 19; white, 55.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u4	The selected senator is, therefore, as follows: Alfonso Gil Invernón. 8, March 18, 1981, the elect senators are to be informed of their nomination, and require them to accept it. After that, the nomination will be accepted, and it will be declared that they represent the senator of Euscadi. Senator, please come into the room. [[Pause]] Mr. Alfonso Gil Invernón, I am formally informed that in the House of Parliament, the House of Commons has made you a representative of Euskadi's senator. Do you consent to nominate a senator? Mr. Gil Invernón: Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u5	Hence, Mr. Alfonso Gil Invernón is declared to represent the senator of Euskauda, the 8th articles of the Law, and the 232th of the Rule of the Parliament. the way articles are worn out. So you can sit down on your offer. Second point on the subject list: "Provide the bill of law made by the parliamentary teams, in order to acquire the housing first of all, and to limit the activity of the investment funds. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented, so we'll start arguing without reading it. If they're on the side and the other side, on the side side side, apart from the EH Collect, is anyone else willing to participate? Side shift? Not on the side shift. On the other hand, together with Podemos and EH Union alone. The others? Okay. Well, 15 minutes, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño, your word is to introduce and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u6	Good morning, everyone. First of all, a change of warning has occurred during the last 15 to 20 years, between the requests of official protection. For 15 or 20 years ago, a majority of those who needed an official house of protection demanded property, wanted to buy it, and today, between the employees of official protection from those who are on the property, 80% demands a rental housing apartment, so the security requestr for the lease has increased in the last years. There may be a great deal of reason, perhaps even in culture, to a culture that is more founded on renting from a culture of property. But most of all the reason is economic. 15 years ago, when the bubble of the brick began to explode, and the financial crisis began, 2008, the ingregations registered in the Parking House were approximately 18,000 euros per year, and after 10 years, 14000 euros, 25% of the Housing data. So these people have lost a lot with the crisis, they've lost a great economic capacity, so they can't afford a house because they can't afford it and can't get loans. Which means it's their only chance of a social rent. How many units do we have on EAE's social rent? Well, with the final number of fun, we have 25,800 units. How many people are there for, how many − firsts are this 80% of what I've mentioned, how many people are named at the HUD? 60.300. There are 60.300 people right now asking for social rent, historical record, more than ever, and we have 25,800 units. So, theoretically, 40% can be satisfied. And I mean theoretically, because there are people in those 25, 800 units, who are occupied, so they can also be considered the demand for social rent. If we add 60.300, plus 25.800, we get to get EAE 86, which needs a social rental housing, which is 25.800. I mean, it looked like 40 percent of them were satisfied, but it's only a real percentage 30%. For 70 percent of them, there's no social housing. Moreover, these 25.800s are not all public, they are not all permanent; It's 6400. 6.400 these flats are at present social rent, but perhaps they are not to-morrow, because the owners are private, so they can decide to spend them at any moment from the social rent, or from another kind of rent, or to leave them to the sale, or to leave them empty. So, I think when they say that there's a little trap, 25.800, they should be removed from the 6400 program of the survival program, they should be removed from the other 2800 housing, even the private ones, the rents that hire the subsidies... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... there are two hundred other rooms, even the most private, of which the − numbers must be removed, to lower the rent than the price of the market, which the Arrila himself gave us. And in our opinion, the habits of life should be removed, whatever they may be, approximately 1,000 right now EAE. It's true they have a function, but it's not a permanent rental social housing. So together with these three numbers, we see how 10,000 units should be removed, as we believe, to count how many social rents we have in our public park: 25.800 off 10,000, 15,800. Those 15,800s are there for those 86,000 Scouts. So it's only 20% that we're satisfying ourselves, but 80% is not satisfied with the offer of our public housing. What do you do with that 80%? Take out the Tagonary. The preparations have to go back... helps that shouldn't be returned. And we have an additional housing preparation, economic housing preparation, we have a DoDA program, we can also consider a survival, not a preparation, but something like that. How much money we're spending on these preparations and scholarships? Well, for the next year, they're charged with 87 million and a half available housing, for economic preparation, 5 million euros, for the Castile program, 8 million euros. We're talking about 100 million euros joining in these three. And for the neighboring program there are 35 million extra presupressed Euros. So we spend 135 million euros per year in bills and collections that should not be returned every year. That money's in the hands of the tenants, but it's automatically in the hands of the owners. So we're trying to strip the public money into private hands, and we think the fun is getting too much based on this system of political housing preparations, which is becoming a product. We think EH Collect thinks it would be a different matter, and it's true that it can't be removed from one day to another, but we think we need a road to gradually remove or tear it apart, and that's why we need to increase our own park to strengthen the social rent. There are several ways of doing so, one might build, build new houses, and we do not propose it with the law which we have brought here today. What we propose is to get those already built. There are different ways of obtaining those already built. Maybe it's the one that's owned. In Berlin, for instance, in the past September, the majority decided to take possession of a lot of large housing owners. We believe that this path is interesting, but it's interesting to unite punctual cases, and even the housing law allows us to make use of the way of dispersal. The only thing that happens is that it doesn't seem to us the best way to increase the public housing parks because it has a problem, and it's priceless to decide what price the housing is to be removed. There may be a great deal of debates in courts of judicature, and consequently we believe that we ought to have recourse to another way before this, and that is what we propose by this law. We believe that most of the housing in the public protection must be acquired first. We propose the right to acquire with priority, or tanteo and retracto, to perform that right which is in fact in existence. It is what is done in the right of getting a fair one, when there is a trade, the administration puts itself in the position of the buyer, and buys a fortune. What we're proposing is to buy public housing, because the maximum price of those housing is rated, so it's easy to calculate how much invested it will go before it gets invested, and there's no discussion, because it's paid the maximum price. We have not invented this right by this law, whether right existed on the soil, or in the law of the housing; The Arrian himself has, in fact, only applied the right of tanteos and retracto to acquire public housing units for the last six years; they have been purchased only in the last six years by this mechanism of housing. And fun says he only uses it when he finds a clean fraud, doesn't he? We believe that fraud is much more extensive, and especially that in cities where many public housing are sold, the − and Gasteiz are one of which I think we all know, namely, that the sale of sale in the maxim, but often requires another sum of money in a different manner. And therefore, though the principal end of this law be not so, we shall end by it also. What are we proposing? To apply tanteo and retractotoise to all kinds of merchandise? Not exactly. What we're proposing is to use the mottos and retracto to get homes of public protection in some townships where there's a lot of tension between the social rental offer and social rental demands. That's where you'll have to buy it. That's where we want to force those homes to grow the public park and put it on social rent. What would these townships be? Now most of the townships, except for the small ones, are small, and some besides, where the offer is good. That's what we're proposing to determine in a sanctorial plot in the housing territory. The computer plan of the housing territory was in 2015 in article 11, but the Arrila told us it wasn't in the intention of this fun, in intention, of making that kind of cultural plan of land. We think it's an strategic error, in our opinion... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... He told us he wasn't in the mood to make that sectorial plot of land. We think it's an strategic error, because we think the housing policies can't be made with an exceptal, so we have to focus on the planes and give a lot of importance to the balance of the territory. And we think that we have to make a sactorial plan for the housing. We place in this law the duties, the minimal duties, and we give them more content. Meanwhile, as long as this plan is not made, we propose that theoretical relationship of which I have mentioned, between 60.300 Scouts and 25.800 flats, the −al too, the demanders of social rents, and the offer of social rents, of 40% of the theoretical relationship between the townships. And while it's not double-crossing, you know, it's like, you know, like, "You know, it's like, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, There is, therefore, a degree of planning, which at first requires a greater deembols, but at the end it must be less bought. How much? We have calculated that in the year the EAEE 700-800s are trading in official protection, and we believe that they must buy 600-700 units of property by applying this law in the year. What kind of gun would that bring? We think it's about 80 and 90 million dollars a year of deembolso. It is money, it is remarkable, but we think it is quite possible, for one thing in degree would at first be more necessary. And besides, it must be observed that the money which we are entering on preparations and all returnless subsidies could also be diminished. These $135 million I've mentioned in the year we spend social rents, well, in order to put it on the radio, because that money is supposed to be climbing the prices of the rents directly or indirectly. Even that would come down gradually and we could buy more. Besides, it's not the most important thing, but you have to consider that when you collect social rent, you'd get money. Right now, average rent is 250 euros a month. That's 12 months over 700 units, for instance, 2 million dollars a year. It's not much, but it'd serve to interfere, cover it, and something for more. And if the number doubles the next year, that will be doubled too. Therefore, as we see, we think that what we are proposing is perfectly possible. If there were any problems between the townships, or when you're in a state of disorganization, disbalance, or rather, what we're proposing is to create even a autonomous housing organization. That autonomous organization was also approaching the housing law, 5th. in the article. What we're doing is with this proposal of law that we're more likely to give that autonomous organization. This only law applies to public protection housing? No. In that case, we want to make fun of it, as I have said, to buy in the town of high tension, but we propose to make a change in the free apartment in order to extend the right to tantum and retracto, or to acquire it first. Because now it's true that there's a few cases in the housing law in −65. in article−, but we believe that he is not ready for a new casuistics case, and that new casuistis is the appearance of investment funds in the panorama of unmolesibles. Invest funds, vulture funds, as you would like to call them, but we see that they are entering other cities very hard on −Madril, Barcelona, Berlin−, principal capitals in Europe, and we think they'll be good too. And so we have to be prepared to spread the instruments before them and increase the power of fun. In this sense, we propose not only to buy whole buildings, but that is what we propose to do, even if they are scattered in the same town, these flats, when they are bought by an investment fund, are the −eta in the Basque Country, in order to apply tanteo and recracto. Are there brothel funds in the Basque Country? Are there investment funds in the Basque Country? Well, they're not like Madrid and Barcelona, but I'll mention three cases. In Donostian, 2016 in Benta New, a socimy called Thesta, which is part of the Black Stone, bought 520 flats. After four years, in 2020, in Donostian, another fund, Azora, bought an inmobilaria, the Inmobilia Vascongada, which had been scattered all over town, 320 flats. And the Gaste's at 2020, so that's an example. it's the last year, another fund, the Catalls, that bought 500 flats in the Salon and the Broad House. If you only got in touch with those three cases, the public park of our social rent would increase in 6%. And in the case of Azor, for instance, in the case of Donostania, where the housing are scattered, we believe that the legislation which is just now established would not give us a hand to apply tantoons and retractos. But in our opinion, with the law which we brought here today, that would be possible. And it's not stupid, because that's the fund that's raising rents to 33% local tenants. And some of them couldn't afford to pay any more, and they've already got their dates and dated. What's he doing? Looking away. And we think if this were applied, if the law we brought here applied, those housing would pass to the public park, and consequently the rent prices would be armored. Yes, they must have been promoted together with the IPC, but not from one year to 33%, as these funds suggest. Today... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] Up to 33% years as these funds suggest. Today this law will be rejected, but we think it's important to show that we have an alternative from the EH Union in the field of the housing. And we believe it will indeed be rejected, because it produces a profound change in the housing policy, because we now have a system based on preparations and non-transferance collections, and we propose to pass with this law to another system, in which the public housing park will be most important. What for? Those flats for social rents that would be armored and controlled from public institutions. So what we're proposing today is really a very important step to make sure that people have a right to the housing they have and have confessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u8	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. And first of all, thank the council, and also to Unai Fernandez de Betoño, for introducing this legal proposition, and bringing it back to the law. As you know, our parliamentary team is always prepared to work for rights, and also to give the Administration the power to develop important public policies. We believe that the legal proposition we are discussing today fills the premises. It is true that in the past the housing policies have been developed, and that rights have also been established. Nevertheless, the new time, which we all know, has been adapted to live, requires political imagination and ambition to continue our society. Obviously there's still a long way to go in the housing area. We basically also agree that we must tackle two areas which have been resisted so far. On the one hand, the regulation of rental prices and new tools for the public authorities, in which from United We can work intensively, which we are also concerned about the evolution of the rental price in Euskadi. We believe that such measures that can have a very immediate effect on a certain number of dwellings are especially necessary. And we must also continue to explore ways to expand and consolidate a public housing park that will allow us to influence the evolution of the private market as well. At the same time, housing claimants in Etxebide are given the opportunity to realize their subjective right to housing recognized by law. Gure ustez, Unidas Podemoetik bai Statu mailan, éta baita hemen ere Elkarrekin Podemoetik, proposamen asko ekarri ditugu, instrumentu legalak, juridikoak gauzatzeko, in order to be able to develop instruments that cover and allow the development of a regulation that goes against speculation, which is one of the great problems we have in housing, that disinfuse bubbles like that which we have experienced on many occasions and which some economists are also alerting that it can come and put in place devices that allow administrations to make the right to housing effective. He said that from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, as we said, all formulas can be explored and must be explored. In this regard, we welcome the fact that other groups in this House, in this case Euskal Herria Bildu, are bringing initiatives that will allow us to open debates and also challenge us to be imaginative and imaginative and to imagine new devices that will guarantee a fundamental right such as that of housing, a right that gives access to many other rights and that is a sine qua non condition for the development of a dignified life. In this regard, we believe that exploring new avenues for the realization of that right of tanteo and retraction, which actually exists in Euskadi, but which is not used, must be good news and should be approved today. Examples have been given. I could repeat many of the words that Mr Fernandez de Betoño has used. We've had cases like Bentaberri's, we've had cases like Catella's, which are houses that could have been part of the public housing park in a way... We are not going to say simple, but simple and direct. Therefore, in the face of this progressive loss of the rental housing park, which we also have..., of the protected housing park, which we have in Euskadi, any mechanism that seeks to strengthen that park and seeks, as is the case with the tanteo and retraction, that those dwellings should not be lost to Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita will always seem good to us. As has been said and is also reflected in the justification for the proposed law, the expansion of the public rental park is urgent. And we reiterate that there are more than 55,000 applicants for social housing in 2020. And that already Mr Fernández de Betono has also explained the number of dwellings actually existing to satisfy that need. This need is not covered by the current housing stock. Expand the park by all methods, by all possible methods, intervene in the housing market from all possible methods. That is why, as I said at first, we shall assent to the legal proposition which the EH Collect has presented to us this day. It's probably not perfect, and probably in a popular law we could all make our own corrections and our contributions, but that's why there's still time, but I don't think that's what happened, we call them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u9	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. We'll go in reverse shift. Who wants to participate in the opposite round? Social parties. Someone else on the other side? No. Mrs. San José, your word is yours. [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. The Basque Socialists will vote against the proposed law of preferential acquisition of housing by the public administrations and limitation of the activity of the investment funds presented by the EH Bildu group. I will start with the diagnostic errors that should support the proposed law. Here, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, there is no trap, there is data. On the demand for public protection housing in Euskadi, the Basque housing policy also provides for the access of the middle classes of their population to the ownership of protected housing, but without public aid, in view of the priority and concentration of all public subsidies and initiatives in rent. In Euskadi, first and second and successive transmissions can be accessed to protected houses of limited price and with permanent rating for the whole life, and these houses have a difference of one to two in the prices of sale with the free housing today; it became one to three at the time of the real estate boom. Therefore, they are a good instrument to moderate the prices of the free market for sale, and they subsidarily influence or can influence the prices of free rent. In the second and subsequent transmissions of used protected housing, the work of the Government is to control the legality of prices and compliance with housing requirements through the mandatory visa of all sales contracts and the exercise of the rights of counting and retraction in case of presumptive fraud. For this reason, the rights of counting and retraction applied by the Housing Department were limited to those cases where there is suspicion of possible fraud or functional misuse of use, e.g., the buyer exceeds the maximum income. Replacing this formula for controlling the transmission system with a systematic application of the preferential right of acquisition, as the proposed law does, is an improper mechanism for the purpose pursued. It means short-circuiting a second-hand market for high-end sheltered housing and curtailing access to middle classes with incomes of up to €39,000 per year in weighted terms to limited-priced housing ownership. The question reaches its true gravity if we analyse its impact in figures. In Euskadi there were at the close of 2020 51,050 legally acquired protected dwellings by their owners, of which just over 17,000 are temporary property of such persons, since the Government owns the land on which they were built in land rights. These houses have a rotation and, annually, a percentage of them are sold under government supervision. Let me appeal to a systematic fraud of these transmissions, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, let me tell you that this is an action of some interest, since today it is more difficult than ever to defraud in this matter, and everything seems to indicate that it will continue to be so in the future. Obviously, there are always people who are risk-prone, unconscious, insolidarians who try to defraud, and who seek to tackle this systematically by applying these rights of counting and retraction; and there are also public officials, notaries and registrars with very powerful systems of control and guarantee, who are obliged to inform the Government beforehand, and at the same time, the possibilities of fraudulently handling cash, with powerful measures against money-laundering and to combat tax fraud have been closed. And at this point, other relevant reflections come from Europe on the role of public administrations on the need to improve the conditions of access to housing for important sections of the population and not just those in a situation of social exclusion. We have the European Parliament's resolution of 21 January 2021 on access to decent and affordable housing for all, which calls for a focus on developing measures to ensure that everyone has access to affordable and accessible housing. In this regard, it implies the need to develop the concept of accessibility around disposable household income, so that, after paying the expenses associated with housing, a budget is available at least sufficient to cover other essential expenses for a dignified life. It calls for the creation of a broader concept of collectives to guarantee their right to housing, not only to the most disadvantaged, but also to those groups whose needs for decent and affordable housing cannot easily be met under market conditions in order to, and I say, guarantee affordable housing, the neutrality of housing for sustainable urban development and the creation of neighbourhoods characterized by social diversity and improved social cohesion. The justification for the proposed law makes a comparison between the 24,000 public rental dwellings that are said to exist against the 60,000 tenants of Etxebide, which indicates that only 40% of the tenants registered in Etxebide would have access to public rental housing if those 24,000 were empty. It is the comparison that you have also made here, Mr Fernandez de Betoño. The comparison is curious and hypothetical, but on its basis there is a new infallible discourse, in such a way as to lead it to conclude that, until there is a territorial sectoral housing plan, this ratio of 40% of each municipality rises because yes to 80%, forcing it to exercise the right of counting and retraction provided that such a relational situation, which will always be, be said to be by way, and by prior definition. This tangled argument once again collides with the data. The reality that we are moving is that 63 per cent of protected housing applicants already live in a free rental house, and in addition, many of these people and households receive a benefit for the payment of that free rent by the Government, which does not constitute a demand for first access, but for change, and what they demand is an affordable rent instead of the free market that they now pay. Therefore, the whole discourse assembled on this issue should fall. We are talking, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, about something else, about another situation of supply and demand that requires other different policies. On the quantification of the protected rental park, Euskadi has 25,823 protected rental homes. The rental fee thus amounts to 34 % of the public protection park. The figures tell us that we already have a remarkable level that long ago ceased to be marginal to become substantive and capable of influence or economic and social impact. And the Housing Department, with Councilman Arriola at the front, is doing its part of the job... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... to influence or have an economic and social impact. And the Housing Department, with Councillor Arriola at the front, is fulfilling its part of continuous, stubborn and consistent work required by the current housing policy. The weight of sheltered rental housing on the total built-up housing follows a growing trend, and shows a clear effort for the rental promotion of all sheltered housing policy at the state level over the past few years, and in an absolutely outstanding way in the Basque case. The evolution of the total rental park in Euskadi is not so positive, so there is a way and work to go. In addition to the direct promotion of public housing for rent, the promotion by means of a powerful system of public aid for the generation of social and affordable housing by third parties, public and private, and the programmes for the mobilization of uninhabited free housing - with great success, indeed, and from here I congratulate the Salburu Arriola for this - there is recourse to the acquisition of housing, both protected and free, by the Basque Government. This possibility is already included in the annual budgets of the housing programme, since Chapter 6 of direct investment envisages the new construction such as the purchase of pre-existing or under construction and/or rehabilitation as alternative or simultaneous forms of public investment. That is why it is false that this speech is included in the preamble that comes to propose - or it seems so, it has also confirmed here - to replace the budgetary resources earmarked for the payment of rent benefits, which seem to be a remnant, with direct purchases of housing and buildings in order to expand the public park. It is also fallacious, because, on the one hand, the policy of rent-paying benefits is fundamental and enormously progressive in its economic and social impacts, and it is necessary to maintain until there is a sufficient and fully capable public rental park on its own to facilitate the population's access to affordable housing. And, on the other hand, because the purchases of buildings and houses have gone into the category of impulsive and massive in recent years for obvious reasons of rapid and immediate increase of the public park when there are operations and these are interesting. Thus, from 2018 to 2021, 616 protected dwellings have been purchased through Alokabide, and the payment of advances for the purchase of 62 different protected dwellings has materialized. In total, 1,278 houses purchased or with a sales contract already signed with advance payments to account. In addition to this figure, there are 219 other dwellings acquired by the Government itself during the same period of time, and those which are expected to materialize in 2022 when this happens in real terms. Therefore, the oblivion of these operations is not at all understood, or, rather, it is understood whether it is intended to argue as a new policy, which is already a clear reality. With regard to the estimate of the subsidised rental park, and taking into account the expenditure incurred in the supplementary housing benefit, the social emergency aid for the payment of rent, the economic housing benefit and the Gaztelagun programme, it is estimated that the total amount of aid allocated in 2020 to the payment of rent amounts to EUR 97 million; much higher than in 2019, EUR 88 million. The relationship between people who have agreed to the different types of rent payment aid, plus the protected rental park over the total number of main rental properties, shows that 67 % of the Euskadi rental park would have had some kind of public support to cover its need for housing rental by 2020. As long as it is not possible to cope from the public housing park for rent to all the demand for social and affordable housing, the system of benefits to the payment of free rent becomes an essential and indispensable safeguard, which ensures the progressiveness of the Basque Housing Service. Therefore, the benefits should disappear to the extent and pace of growth and the availability of sufficient and adequate public, social and affordable housing. But, in the meantime, it works as a crucial social and economic insurance that, in passing, has allowed us and allows us to approach European policies in this area where they survive. Its suppression and alternative replacement by a housing procurement policy is by no means appropriate; it is not and should not be inconsistently political for quite some time. Overprices and housing rents in Euskadi, also here, in the preamble, makes the most negative selection possible in this matter, also more inconsistent, in this case, relative rent efforts on disposable income. If we have something today - and it is a clear statistical deficit in our opinion - it is a huge proliferation of statistics on public and private housing, for sale or rent, independent some and interested others, whose conclusions are enormously divergent according to the sources, thus supporting all the speeches. Since it appears from the reading of the preamble that it has preference for INE statistics, we propose the use for these purposes of two of its most serious statistical operations: one on the housing price index, and the other on housing valuations. From your analysis we bring the following conclusions. From the top of the open prices of housing, the real estate boom and its subsequent puncture since 2007 and subsequent recovery in prices since 2015, a path of moderation has been installed in Euskadi that has led us to that the recovery in prices since 2015, both in new and used housing, has been less than the Spanish average itself, and much less than in the more dynamic areas in price increases that have far exceeded us in these years. The result is that we have fallen into the escalator of housing prices at the state level, and we have already surpassed the most tense areas such as Madrid, Barcelona and the Balearic Islands. Also, there are already alcist tendencies in certain Spanish areas, which will surely cause us to move forward on a price scale in the future. Euskadi, and for various reasons of activity and dynamism, we remain settled in moderation, and it seems that that will remain a value to us; and that despite that we have clearly out of the ordinary Donostia, and pulls prices up. It would be good if we accepted that not being on top of prices is good. Despite that moderation and the fall in prices, we come from where we come from, so our prices remain high and are on the rise of the still high. In Euskadi the weight of protected housing is significant and has the capacity to influence. It is striking that the purchase price of protected housing in Euskadi is low, lower than the Spanish average, and lower than in territories such as Cadiz - for example, and as an anecdote. Apart from the reasons for the legal content expressed in the criterion submitted by the Basque Government, the justification for the rule refers in general to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. He said that this jurisprudence had supported the adoption of socio-economic provisions in cases where the necessity and urgency of the measure was explicitly and reasoned. You are referring, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, to sentence 61/... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... explicitly and motivatedly stating the necessity and urgency of the measure. You are referring, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, to judgment 61/2018 of 7 June, and you are referring to the justification of the legal figure of the decree law, to its urgency, and not, of course, to the substantial content of the socio-economic measures. So, let's just say it all. And it is also necessary to say that consistent housing policies need to be developed, and there are no miracles or magic shortcuts, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, because access to housing and its sustainability remain, more acutely, one of the socially priority issues, mainly for the most vulnerable sectors, the most vulnerable social sectors, but also, increasingly, for those middle layers of our society that do not find solutions in the free market or need to improve the sustainability, efficiency and housing quality of their homes. The housing policy must therefore ensure a comprehensive response to people in need of decent and adequate housing, thereby increasing the provision of resources for both affordable rental and improving the living conditions and sustainability of the existing residential park. The system of benefits guaranteeing the subjective right to housing must be implemented simultaneously, complementaryly and collaboratively with the new Law on GIR, while consolidating the growth and social cohesion of the housing stock intended for affordable rent, promoting rehabilitation and optimizing European funds. In addition, and in order to consolidate this scenario, it will be necessary to ensure a sustainable and shared policy with a long-term commitment to the Social Housing Pact. Euskadi is well positioned at the state level in the comparative indicators of housing, as reflected in the official statistics published by the Housing and Soil Observatory of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda: we are the ones who have built the most protected housing in 40 years, with more than 105,000 dwellings; the second in public park, in social rental in absolute terms, with 26,000 dwellings in 2021; the second in direct public expenditure executed in absolute terms; the first in direct public expenditure, more tax expenditure in absolute terms; and the second in absolute figures of protected housing put on offer, and specifically in rent, in the last decade. But it is not enough, and, from the Government, from the Department of Housing, they must, but they also want to do more and better. The rent has been the most demanded option in Euskadi for years: 63% of the population requesting protected housing in Euskadi resides in a rental housing. Looking at the desired tenure regime, the proportion of families residing on rent is much higher in the case of the population requesting sheltered rental housing, 68.5%. The monthly payment capacity of the population seeking shelter remains very limited; in particular, the average is 356 euros per month. The pandemic has only increased the difficulty and vulnerability of many of these people. Thus, the proportion that confirms that the health crisis has negatively affected their housing situation is 34.5 per cent of those seeking sheltered rental housing. All this hinders access to the rental market in Euskadi to the population with the greatest difficulties, especially in the most tense areas, located in the Basque capitals and its metropolitan areas, characterized by a greater shortage of supply at an affordable price and by the high demand for housing. To deal with these situations, the Department of Housing is working and wants to sign a new social pact for housing with the Basque economic and social actors, with a 15-year horizon and with the aim of ensuring that the affordable public rental offer is at the end of the period in 5% of the main dwellings in Euskadi. In other words, double the current percentage that are in the two and a half. Of course, this will also double in the decade and a half the current public housing park of 26,000 housing units, increasing its available supply by another 26,000. They also expect that the permanent public housing stock will reach 10 per cent of the main dwellings in Euskadi, i.e. around 102,000 dwellings, by the end of this period. Apart from these figures, the 26,000 affordable rental dwellings proposed would add to the current protected housing stock another 12,000 fully-owned or temporary-use dwellings for the year 2036. In this way, the total supply of affordable housing with public intervention would increase with 38,000 additional housing in the next 15 years. In the area of comprehensive rehabilitation, a new unified aid regulation was launched in September 2021, more in line with actual needs, and further aligned with current requirements for energy efficiency and accessibility. I'm finishing up. At the State level, with the adoption of the housing law, certain aspects that are the exclusive competence of the State Administration will be regulated. Strong development of policies to promote the public residential park and rehabilitation is also envisaged, as a result of extraordinary budgetary allocations from European funds within the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u11	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Passing the answers, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u12	I didn't know we couldn't talk about E. I don't know, if I'd mentioned some data about the EH Collector's housing team, but well, Instituto Nacional de Estadic, O sera, we didn't even go to the mountains. Well, thank you, Maria Jesús San José, for having taken the word in the opposite rounds, it's a little bit of a discussion. And you're not always doing that lately, and it's a relief. You say data, we fake them. And you've brought back a data that you've often been repeating, or how much social rent we've got from the public protection park. And today, you raised a 100-point, you said 34 percent. You said 30% a few months ago, then 33 percent, today 34%. Klaro, that's where you're cheating, because you're counting social rent on the whole park of public protection, and, clarro, that whole park... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... Klaro, this is where you're cheating because you're counting social rent from the entire park of public protection, and, kalaro, he's still spending that whole park, he's still spending it, because all the apartments that were built before 2003 are still spending, 600,000 public housing in EAE. What a trass database from the public capital to private hands. That's terrible. And they're still spending it. So, next year, even if you don't add a single social rent house to the park, the percentage will be higher because the total goes down because they liberalize. At least that trap won't do you any further than that, because in the next year there's no longer any way to make up for it, luckily. We think we should compare the social rental park to the whole housing park, at least 90,000 units of housing. And there's 3% of them, 3%. That %3, if you compare it with Spain, as you always do, is not wrong, because in Spain there is 2, 2,5%. But in Europe? How much's in Europe? With 28 European countries taken from the east, including 9%, three times more. And without going to the Dutch and Austrian very good models, touching a third, in France itself is 14% of the social rent; in the United Kingdom, 17%. We believe that these should be patterns to compare and patterns to which we ought to touch, at least as planning. Shopping. Yes, yes, you've been shopping, but what are you doing? You're buying bishop's housing in an opaque way, we don't know why, you buy some of his housing from the bad Netb bank, we don't know why. EAE is the only autonomy community in the whole of Spain which he has bought from the bad bank of the Spanish State. You buy from some bankrupt promoters the housing, Amenabar, and others, why and why, I don't know, there's a policy that you're making in buying. And in budgets, for instance, you mix the millions that will be used for tantrous and retracto with these other purchases, so it's very difficult to know how much you want to invest for one and the other. And that's your buy policy. Today, in my opinion, you have used a better tone, but in the process, the tone of my singing was enough, well, not only very laconic, but in a little paragraph, which says or throws the law into the street; and the tone is not at all suitable, as we think, contemptuous. It is remarked that this law is founded on a decree from Valencia. It's said as a criticism, but we think it's a piropos. For Valence, yes, it has been regulated by the manner of producing tanteo and retracto in 2020, but in itself it was regulated from 2004, as here we have been from 2006. And let us see what this new rule of 2020 in Valentia has been for, when it was tried in 2020, they had three hundred and seven figs in this way; and last year, in 2021, 400 other houses. So we really think that's a piporo. And then there's only one criticism in a little paragraph, saying that this law does not bring anything, it doesn't contribute anything. You don't justify anything, it doesn't export it. Apparently, every year, I'm gonna add 700 more housing to the public rent park, it's not a story. Because, oh, we don't say that social expense is to be diminished, we say that social expense is to be moved. And I said, you're spending 135 million dollars a year in training and bonds, and all that money ends in private hands. And that's what you're blowing up the rent price bubble. What we're saying is that money's in a gradual degree, I've said that it can't be done from one year to another that it must go in another place. And that's the place where the public park will be more controlled. That's our alternative. And we really understand that we looked at him contemptuously because he supposes an important change of direction in pretty flats. And we think most of the eggs should be placed there in that basket. Because we really believe that the right of the housing is so pretty that in a law it is acknowledged to be, but then the means of doing it must be put into action, measures, and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u14	You speak, Mr Fernandez de Betaño, of contempt for your initiative. And, well, with his initiative and listening to him, it seemed – and I say it with all the respect that I deserve any initiative that comes forward – that would have discovered the gunpowder. But it's not like that. He also talks about the data, the falsification of the data. I have not said anything about falsifying data or anything; you present yours, I present mine. You think that yours are the real ones, the real ones, the ones that are chosen from the right statistics, but, of course, the data I have are very good sources. I do have to tell you that, of course, there are no universal or miraculous recipes, it is a fact that the realities of each territory, you speak of here of Europe, you speak of other sites, of other provinces, but each territory requires the development of specific housing policies. In Euskadi, we all know, the biggest problem lies in the shortage of supply, which is why all efforts are aimed at... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... specific housing. In Euskadi, we all know, the biggest problem lies in the shortage of supply. Hence, all efforts are directed towards the promotion of the new building and the capture of this empty housing with public management programmes, as I said, with Bizigune. He talks about shopping to the Bishop, he talks about shopping to... I don't know, a lot of that. But all the purchases that have been made have been properly informed, haven't they? And when there are good opportunities, I said, you buy. Also, well, you say that I have said that this proposal of law does not bring anything. The laws are to make people prosper, gain rights and live more dignifiedly. But, as you acknowledge in the justification of this proposal of law, the rights of tanteo and retraction have already been explicitly regulated, and you have also said it here today, in the Basque laws of Housing and Soil and Urbanism, which, as you say, it is necessary to recast and clarify. So we think from the Socialist Group that this proposal does not contribute anything, and it is even more confusing when not even in this proposal of law does it propose the repeal of all or some of the precepts whose recasting arises. It also forgets that the areas of accredited housing demand and need have been regulated in the Basque Government Decree on Uninhabited Housing and that the Territorial Sectoral Housing Plan is already in the Housing Act. It referred earlier to SOCIMI and the three major housing acquisition operations in Euskadi by the investment funds. And I think that..., that, come on... that it's fallacious to mention that because it seems to be talking about a representative sample of operations, but that, unlike Madrid and Barcelona, these operations are the only ones, that is, they are three operations. It's not the entire universe of possible operations, but... Nor is it a statistical sample on which to infer and is the entire universe of events. I think from the department that these three operations... Two are protected dwellings for private rental, because they are of the few exceptional cases in Euskadi in which a large number of dwellings are involved. And both sales operations are between private forks. It is carried out on groups of 500 or more dwellings that do not exist in the free market and are well over 50 million euros. In both housing cases the transmissions have been made at the legally established price and the conditions and income levels of the tenants who remain in their dwellings as tenants are maintained and extended. In the case of Donostia we are talking about other rents of the high protection extract, while in the case of Vitoria we are talking about average rents on the protection scale above the usual ones in the government public park, but far below those in the case of Donosti. In both operations, social peace was maintained, as tenants who had already enjoyed housing were maintained and the period of income protection was extended. So nobody loses and everyone wins. There is no added value in the Government's purchase of these dwellings. Contracts are intended and the preferential right of acquisition by the Government is not exercised. And the third case is different, it's a purely private case. We talk about 300 free homes, free homes with rents above the maximum prices allowed. At what price should that operation have been closed, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, by not having a limited price system to apply in this case? At the price of Donosti's free market? Should the capital gains have been satisfied with public funds? To launch an expropriatory process, as you said before, of content and, above all, of unpredictable and dangerous results for public coffers? Therefore, the general interest affected by the public intervention in this case and its ability to meet the housing needs of those registered in Etxebide is nowhere seen. I was also talking, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, about the fact that this project does not contribute anything. I told you, this is all regulated, it applies, it's done and so on. And you said that we have to take out aid, yes you have, you have. We are the ones who say that it has to be progressively reduced. That is to say, in that, of course, both in the justification of the proposal for a law and in its presentation today it has said exactly so. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u15	If the debate is over, it will vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at table, 72; votes given, 74; supporters 26; contraries, 48; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u16	So the bill was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. Myst, Mrs Martínez. From there, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u17	To say that we voted against, of course, because it seemed to us a new attack on private property and a new attempt to intervene in the real estate market. This is what we consider to have been intended with this proposal of law without foundation, totally confused and that, moreover, we believe it is born without any route since... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... Real estate market. This is what we considered to have been intended with this unfounded, totally confused proposal for a law and that, moreover, we believe it is born without any route, because its purported aspiration to control the right of tanteo and retraction by the public administrations is already regulated in the Basque Autonomous Community. We believe that initiatives such as those that pose to us the only thing they achieve is to distort the market, drive out investors and punish citizens, who want to invest their savings in a home. For all this, we have said no.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u18	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the PP-Ciudados, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u19	Hello, good morning, counselors, parliamentary gentlemen. We will begin by saying that the proposed law on preferential housing acquisition that we are addressing today is ideologically out of date and is technically chaotic, to say the least. It is a text that presents serious contradictions in legally imprecise, indeterminate concepts, where calculated opacity prevails. The proposal that you bring us today for your consideration, Mr de Bildu, proposes a regulation more appropriate to an interventionist regime of the 20th century than to our time. I know it seems like the most to you, but, look, fortunately things are no longer like that. These theories have not prospered anywhere in the world except through their imposition. We therefore agree with the Government's unfavourable approach. The rights, which are not obligations, of preferential acquisition which the Administration holds are already regulated in other autonomous laws. This law does not merge anything, it does not unify anything; rather, on the contrary, it confuses everything. And, look, I'm gonna explain articles to you. In 1.1, it is stated that the purpose of this Act is to regulate the option of preferential acquisition of housing. In any case, the existence and exercise of preferential acquisition rights will be regulated. Article 2.2 is an absolute obviousness. Article 3.5, which states that the Government may delegate to local entities the rights of counting and retraction when delegated or, where appropriate, transferred. They are the powers, the property rights; they are transmitted or surrendered; and, normally, in public deed, if they fall on real estate, but so that they can be entered in the register of the property. See, article 5, for example: fundamental principles. Principles are not objective, or purposes of law; they are different things. I jump to article 7. They are overcome, in this article they are overcome. They get the most difficult: the compulsory application of the rights of tanteo and retraction. When, by definition, the exercise of a right is voluntary: I exercise it if I see fit; if it is mandatory, it is not a right, it is an obligation. In the wording of articles 9 and 10 it is confusing, unintelligible. You're fighting with clarity. By the way, the time limits for the exercise of preferential acquisition rights are not prescriptions, but lapses, and therefore cannot be interrupted. 9.4 imposes an obligation on the owner of a dwelling to allow access to the Government when required, without a court order, thereby trampling upon the most basic rights. Nor does article 10.2 (a) appear to pass the most elementary democratic filters, which states that "the Government may exercise the right of withdrawal where the notification provided for in the previous article has not been made; or, in spite of that, the Government would have refused to grant permission to transmit public protective housing". Let us see, when the housing is transmitted under the conditions set out in the Act, it is not to be authorized by the Government. Here we see the interventionist spirit and the absolute control over the property emanating from this proposition. In Article 11, for example, it is to be noted, as regards legal precision. You speak, and I read textually: "in the transmissions free of charge the purchase price..." and continues. If the transmission is free, there is no price. In any case, what will be a value, not a price, because there is no economic reward. I could keep reading articles that we can't... and we've voted against, because we couldn't do it any other way. With these premises, you can already imagine, why we have voted against them, but it is important to say that what you do not respect is the ownership of those homes and the effort your owners have made to buy them even if they were public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Our team voted negatively to consider this bill of law proposed by the EH Collectors. We clearly see that when we develop the housing policies, we must consider the wants of the different groups of society, and give them an answer as far as possible. And that requires planning, and this schedule has to take care of these different needs, right? Then, on the one hand, encouraged by the housing, on the other, the deserted flats, and Mr. Fernandez de Bethoño, who are also in the park, and then, taking them from other ways, protected and free. And to do that, well, there's also a live and immediate resource in the Euskok. And for the last few years, he has acquired many homes: By rent, 616 secure housing between 2018 and 2021. And also by profiting, he has agreed to acquire so many others. And it's also in direct possession of departments, housing departments, so from different roads... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... Getting so many others. And it is also directly the Departation, the Housing Department, that it obtains an answer from the several roads, and from the want of it. But as long as there is no answer to all demand from the house, the preparations are indispensable. We also agree that commercial policies proceed from the increase of the housing park, but we don't have enough room to respond to all these demands. But when you introduced him, you said you wanted to go and buy your Christmas houses. "Que el derecho de adquisicióne se convierta en una obligación, it is true, the las zones tensiondas, and so you have explained it to-day. But when I have read and examined the proposition of law, and have made it necessary for him to be bound from right to right, I have not found it, nor have I found it. In the same way, you said that when you introduced a law proposal in your statement, that no se obligaba, that was fulgar, pero es verdad que en impeción de ley no se obliga al Gobierno. Then we agree in this case with the criterion given by the Government, that this right is already regulated, both in the law of the soil and in the law of the housing. So today, bringing here another proposal of law to regulate the same thing, we didn't see any meaning in it. And therefore it was chiefly our opposition. We believe that the key here is perhaps rarely used by that right which you believe you have, or that you would like to use more; but we do not think it necessary to regulate another law, to regulate that right which is already regulated. And besides, we think, and I have at first said that these several wants of housing ought to be answered, and that when a house of public protection goes to sell in a second transmission, and perform all the conditions received by law, that is to say, when there is no fraud in this transmission, the person who buys it gets a need of a house. And it's true that when the fun rings out, it's because it's not allowed from public institutions, and that it's especially used in these cases by tantos and retractos. Perhaps it is your will, or will, to employ it more, and not the change of the regulation we now have, is it not? For, in the end, I think that this proposition of yours does not suppose any alteration in regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Third point in the theme list. Before, tell him the tenth was left for another time. Third point in theme list: "Mution, being introduced together by you as a member of the legislature of the Anician party, about the renewal of the treaty of education. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Martínezilion, you are yours to present and defend the action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u23	Good morning again. Thank you, ma'am. When we're discussing this motive, education is also in progress. On Tuesday we were able to examine the report made by the chairman of the commission. We have heard various voices and opinions in this form, and such precise propositions as Covenants and Laws ought to receive; many and many of them are useful in our opinion. But the process of discussion must not be limited to the activity of Parliament. Out of this even there is a dispute: In media, streets, motivations, university and many fields. As it is a subject that influences the whole community, they combine various subjects of education, and future laws: the segregation of the school, to the cradle, and even the more terrifying differences between the public network and the private bonded network, and many other matters. In fact, a report made by the chairman of the committee has been rejected during the last few days. In short, he only maintains the present unbalanced. And others like music, too, but there are few conquests. The downfall of the birth rate is significant. That has a direct influence on the education system, which will have such a much lower degree of license data that it's going down, and they're going down. In front of the apparent decline of the match, there must be a firm decision, especially in the field of education system planning, and, more accurately, about the offer that is over-produces on the low side of the compact network. Now we have learned that the order and process which will renew the educational treaty of six of the next year's educational schools is either in progress or in progress, the Board of Education has started; and that is why we engaged the Board of Education to the Board of Education, and also introduced this motive. Of course, the measures or measures taken on a network directly affect the other network, in this case, as we believe, and the measures we have seen in the last few years, do damage to the public net. It's not a big deal. As planning can be an excellent instrument to promote equity and euphora, it is indispensable to define the quality of the nets. In some townships the schools of the treaty are furnished with a number of more squares to satisfy the demands of the people, although in other townships there are only public squares, and in the schools under the treaty new classrooms are opened and opened. Offering more squares than necessary is a direct benefit to the college of the compact. In the gym, for instance, the state of public and private schools... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... the offering of more squares is a direct benefit to the schools of the compact. In the gym, for instance, in most countries where public and private schools are contested, the public network offer does not arrive at 40% of all the squares offered. We want to state clearly that the family priority cannot be the only item to be considered when they assign a school square. The Education Administration ought, on the contrary, to consider other areas, and it must be of special importance to prevent the separation of the diversity of schools, the balance necessary, and the students who have certain specific characteristics in certain schools. In this respect, as we have said today and always, planning is a necessary instrument, in order to end the offer situation and supply the school offerings to real needs. Benetan borondate onarekin ari garela ahal bezain bestean gure ekarpenak eginez. Hala Ere, Epeak, Edo Ezarri to say Epeak, Oso-oso laburrak eta urritzak to say. Eta, ore, dazen si urteak baldintzatuko dituzten itunak, dekretu hori martxan jarri da. Eta ez dugu ulertzen -esan diogo salilburuari and Gobernuari was zuzenean -, ez dugu ulertzen nola martxan jarri din prozesu hori. We don't understand, no one understands, at least I think a lot of people don't understand, how in the middle of the debate of the paper to define the system... the future of the education system in Euskadi and before the adoption of the new law, the process by which the Government will approve the decree of concertation for the next generations is under way. A decree that is currently from 1987, the year I was born, and that does not need to renew the Government to approve the new concerts facing the sexenium. We distrust, we distrust, the agreement that we could have reached today, precisely because we do not understand, and no one has argued us efficiently, what is the point of adopting a decree that is the backbone of the future education law before having the new law passed. Eta ere bai beste gauza batzuengatik, because we do not know in particular, at least at the meeting we had for the Government, we have absolutely nothing in writing, but today we also have a report, which has been prepared by the Government and which has been published by a means of communication, in which it is already estimated, in which you tell me that no, the means of communication say yes, there is a report that is published, we have it, we need to clarify who has done it, by which the budget for concerted education is already increased and planned by more than 300 million. That they can be. We don't deny it. In fact, in one of the 80 proposals it is included that a commission of independent experts is set up to create..., to calculate - pardon - the cost of a school place. Anyway, there's a lot of... There is still a great deal to be discussed. We are sure that in the proposals for Covenant, there are few in this proposition made by the President; but there are many of them in our Document, and others of other operators. But if there's a new assignment of the treaties, four, six years will pass through a lot of contributions and suggestions... That the many will be on the move. The representative of the treaties will be absolutely conditioned, and will perpetuate the position of the sacrifice upon the present occasion. And so, and that is precisely why we made a very exact, very concrete proposal, only to prolong the strength of the treaty a year or two years or two years, a course or two, to set up the agreements or disagreements given in education, and also the new law of education in force, and to make new treaties in it. We didn't make any deal this time. We were close. But we're on parole of a process that hasn't been given up so far. We don't have much confidence, but we want to be trusted. Gure jarra mesfidantzatik baldintzatuta dago, noski, ez daukagulako inolako bermerik ore approved by the erdibideko horren betetzeko (...). We have no guarantee on the part of the Basque Government that this will be carried out. So far we have had a non-negotiation process around the educational presentation; at least as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, we have had a single formal meeting with the Government. We have time, though little. That is why we also voted against the times of the education paper because we thought we had to give ourselves a lot more time. But there we will be until the last second, and if necessary, more, trying to improve that presentation and putting the public school in the center to enable Elkarrekin PodemosUnited Left to be in that agreement. At this moment, I'd like to meet the congressman EH, to thank him for the work he's done these days. Even Leixus Arriga, for our interviews and terms we've had recently. We are not so far from the quality of correction, but in the efficacy of this or that middle correction. Hau guztia isanda, the next few weeks are key to the educational debate. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, I say again, will leave the skin to be in that agreement. Our proposals are quite clear: we bet on the public school as a backbone of the education system, we bet, for example, on a strategic plan for the development of public education, we don't leave the development of public education to marketing campaigns, we bet on a plan against school segregation and we also bet on concertation in a universal and unconditional way. We call for real negotiations on proposals and on documents, concrete, evaluable and measurable proposals. And we are not, as in some spaces you want to see, a caricature, and the agents who defend the public school are not. Our model is that of public education, and it is just as valid as any other proposals when it comes to... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] They don't defend public school either. Our model is that of public education, and it is just as valid as any other proposal when discussing it. And we're as Basque and Basque as an ikastola director or as a freshman student at a public school in any town in this country. Therefore, and as Marjane Satrapi said, "education is a weapon of mass destruction." Eta was a horretan part hartu nahi dugu, éta was a horren bizkarrezurra euskal eskola publikoa baldin bada, was a horretan egongo gara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u24	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Gil, representing the Popular-Cellanos team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing, we started the year more or less as we ended it: with a motion from Podemos-Izquierda Unita to attack directly the concerted education. With it, this political formation - they will know what they are doing - is positioned in front of 180,000 pupils and families, and more than 400 educational institutions, which have demonstrated in recent years, in the last 30 years, a huge commitment to the quality of education in Euskadi. With it it is clear, with this proposal it is clear that Podemos-Izquierda Unita intends to take advantage of the new law of education to make the educational concerts disappear - they just said a minute ago -, thus attacking thousands of teachers, families, centers, students who today find in this network of centers an alternative that guarantees them high quality training. And they don't do it by making arguments that have to do with the quality of education, because they can't do it, because this network has levels of quality above the average, but they do it for prejudices and ideological reasons. For years now they have been installed in the belief that concerted centres are evil, segregating centers for the rich who indoctrinate children against the nationalism that they already defend without caps. However, the reality is different. The more than 400 educational centres of the network are very diverse among them, and we can find different projects of center, from completely secular and Basque schools to religious schools of centers inspired by the most advanced educational technologies to which they bet by more classical pedagogical methodologies, from which they follow the principles of the free educational institution, to which they are inspired in Europe and which they bet by language and technology training as the axis of their project. There's everything, as it has to be. Therefore, I invite you to learn a little more about the complex reality of concerted education, even if this may have the risk of their prejudices being overturned. But there is something that the concerted centres agree on: many of them allow families to educate their children without the imposition of the euskera becoming an added handful of difficulties that hinders the development of educational contents and that condition, for their whole life, the quality and depth of their formation. And that, of course, is what bothers them with the concerted teaching, because I do not explain what else it can be, which de facto means an escape from the indoctrination of the single model, and that seems unacceptable to them. And this is the reason why the network agreed in Euskadi also has the weight and the dimension higher than the average of other countries and other autonomous communities, because here the need for free educational projects is greater. Concerted Basque education does a great job: it covers methodological approaches and language models that sometimes the public network does not reach; and therefore enriches our educational system. And this we believe is the approach that should be taken: to stop looking at the concerted teaching as a threat and to accept that it is a wealth that must be protected. Among other things, because concerted education is also public: it provides a public service of great value that we must recognize, and it does so with public funds. However, it is a network that is underfunded, today it is in the newspapers (...) that you referred to. And it would be fair to adapt its financing to the actual costs of each place. But although their intentions are clear, they are clear, the proposal that We can-United Left brings us here is difficult to understand in its literality, because one thing is what it says and another what it means. He says the concerts are renewed in this course and, if necessary, in the next one. Although I think what you mean is that you are renewed for this course, only for this course, and for the next one. A drafting error which is true that completely changes the meaning of the proposal, although what is intended has already been made clear by Mr Martínez in the inquiry and today in his speech. Well, Mr Martínez, we are in favour of compliance with the law, as always. And when we go to that, we note that section 116.3 of Organic Law 2/2006 obliges us to follow a process. And it literally says, "In particular, the educational concert will last at least six years in the case of Primary Education, and four years in the rest of the cases." It seems clear that at least in Primary the minimum has to be six years. And as the current agreement ends this course, it must be renewed normally. The law is to enforce it, and especially in this house that is where we make the laws. That is why our amendment basically means that the law should be complied with. And that is why we propose: firstly, that the Basque Parliament should recognize without cover the work carried out by the concerted education, because it allows to increase the freedom of choice of educational model by the Basque families and their contribution to educational excellence; secondly, that the Basque Parliament should urge the Government to renew the educational concerts in view of the next course, for the same periodicity with which it has been held in recent times, adapting the financing of these centres to their real costs as they provide, I repeat, a public service. And it's that families need certainty, because they need to plan their children's education. Education, in general, cannot be subjected to attacks or waves of this kind. We can't have thousands of families in town saying "it's renewed for a year, then we'll see if we renew for another and the third depends on how the political wind blows." You can't play with families, you can't play with education. That is why this initiative does not seem good for anyone. You say you do it well-intentionedly. I don't doubt it, but I don't think it's good for anyone. We don't think he's bringing anything. And we believe that its goal is not what it should be, which is to improve education, which is what we should devote our efforts and resources and our time to. The intention of this initiative is to tell the concerted that much eye, that with the future law you will go after them, and to the families to convey to them a very clear message: do not bet on the concerted... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... The concerted that I see so much, that with the future law you go to them, and to the families to send them a very clear message: do not bet on the concerted because your future is uncertain. But the network is much stronger than all of this. It has survived 40 years of concerned nationalist management, because it is based on a real demand from citizens who need an alternative like this. And it will survive you, too. The renewal of educational concerts should not be affected by the new law; that is what we think. At least by the law that we understand should emerge from this process: a law of minimums. A law that does not intend to regulate everything, that strengthens the autonomy of the centers. Or perhaps what is being claimed is a restrictive law, which instead of covering the different initiatives of teachers and centres, limits to a possible project that responds to the interests of their political projects? It wouldn't be very democratic. But, in addition, we have repeated it many times, and we will continue to say it as often as necessary throughout this process: we think that education should not respond to the interests of any political project. Neither from ours; none. It is, moreover, ladies and gentlemen, that we are wrong to face from the political debate an absurd battle between the public and the concerted. And we think it's a serious mistake, because it affects the future of our students. Both networks have their strengths. They both have excellent professionals. And they also have the two many points to improve. But that will not be achieved by confronting each other, or by proposing the practical disappearance of one of them. We respect both of you. Let us give sufficient conditions for both of them to develop their projects. We do not interfere politically with their work, nor do we have the temptation to impose a certain political criterion. And above all, let us respect the free choice of families of the educational model they want for their children. We have to say that, in the light of the amendments tabled, we have seen a transaction with the PNV, which has shown indecently that in matters of education it wants to move away from any possible agreement with us. Then their mouth will be filled by talking about auzolan, collaboration, extended hand and consensus, but in the process I have been drawn to the attention that the PNV representative has told me that she does not want to make an express recognition of concerted education, and less so at this time. Why, Mrs. Leixuri? Why? What's the problem? In case you're angry with your partner Bildu? Anyway, you'll know, but you should have more consideration for those 400 centers and those 180,000 students. His proposal to adapt the criteria for renewal to future regulatory frameworks is also giving us clues as to his intentions regarding the treatment to be given to the concerted, and it does not seem difficult to deduce that the renewal of the concerts - now called contracts-programme - will be for a shorter period than the current one. They realize what they're doing, don't they? Concerted school needs stability and certainty. Well, of course they know very well what they're doing: they're orchestrating a concerted school attack, attacking their stability. What I find difficult to understand, and that is why I have no choice but to look at, to question directly on this subject, the role that the PSOE is playing. Are you guys going to play this game? Are you going to allow this attack on the education being prepared? Do you agree with this? Finally, I hope that we will be able to hear your answer in your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u26	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u27	Yeah. Thank you, Chief. Good morning, everyone. It is undeniable that education lives at the intersection of the harba, Bizia, and Gipuzian. And I'm going to say − in the last decades, that we're living a state of political and education that hasn't been given in the past 30 years. Luckily, we're living, probably too late. If many of us say that we have a great deal of haste, it seems to me that we have not entertained such a quarrel about our language, because it seems to us that our education model for the past years has been in the way to transport our galbher system of education. And I'm not going to repeat from this here and there again, with all those non-consumptions of the day's educational systems that we've been talking about. But I think that most of us can all agree, at least that our education system needs a radical transformation. And this is precisely what we are seeking. Hence, and as we all know well, we began a process of reflection in October, and agreed to produce the power to obtain the alliance of education, and for us this educational agreement must be a national compact, beyond the agreement of the party. And we think it's important to be clear. The first work of this power has brought Araba, Biscay, and Gipuian education community to identify who the community is: 100 operators, scholars, and professionals have been passed three months from school, and we've traveled to Catalonia, and we've brought the best instructions from it, and, according to the Basque People, we're better off today than in September. Some discussions that didn't go on September are being discussed in the public square today. And, in our opinion, the discussion on education today was more oxygen than the one that was in September. And this, in the other case, has been owing to the process of reflection in education, and also to the vast process of learning in the Eusterium. And this has brought every party to stop the political program we have, and to devote ourselves to education, because, as I have said, we are willing to obtain a popular contract than a party agreement. And I have said more than once that in this fine path of education agreement we have tried to strengthen our relations, that we have tried to create confidences and honestly... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... that we have tried to strengthen our mutual relations, that we have tried to create confidence, and that we have treated at least with sincerity. And this leads us to the steps we make, and to beware of the decisions we make. This course is aimed at renewing the educational concerts of the concerted centres, and this renewal is the responsibility of the Department of Education. And the Department of Education can do so with its criteria or can do so by sharing them with the rest of the agents and with the rest of the parties. This approach in the debate on the Education Budgets in the Commission has already put it on the table for Councillor Bildarratz, warning that the renewal of the concerts could bring, could bring, and could question the credibility of the possible educational agreement. Because the renewal of educational concerts can put in check the credibility of that educational agreement. Because what's the point today of agreeing on one thing in the agreement, what's the point of defining the criteria for concertation, what's the point of talking about school planning, what's the point of writing what our ideal school map would be, if the concerts that are going to be decided today are going to mortgage the next six years? I insist, the educational agreement needs rigour, it needs confidence, and therefore, for all that, I think it is important that the compromise that we are going to adopt today. The downfall of the rate of birth will cause a change to our system, a new planning must be made, a request must be adjusted, and, of course, the school map must necessarily be renewed. And all this must be made in the new parameters, which we agree in the treaty of education; and then the law must receive all these parameters. But again we wish to speak of the decisions which are made today, the resolutions of the renewal of the education treaty in six years, and the credibility of education can be doubted. That's why we're asking the Board of Education to act carefully and responsible for this education community support because we have to work together all these things, all these complex issues. And therefore I desire to confirm that the half-way proposal to which we shall make our agreement today is in the right place all this innovation of education and education agreement. And, in short, I would like to take advantage that I haven't had much talk about EH Collect, many times saying things that EH Billa doesn't say. Sometimes, with a particular will of manipulation, I mean that what EH Collect says does not say, and that what EH Collect says is EH. I'll be more specific. EH Collect no compartimos la concertacion universal. En EH collect no compartimos la pollia de concertacion universal, I de concertarlo todo ni de dar un cheque en blanco a la concerda. Tampoco compartimos que, pesa a tener los conciertos acactivos, haya hostros que recivendos plublicas que niegan a algún de alumndo la matrícula, que sexos, que sulos, que noscalta que noscalta que noen ninún de reponscida soli. In EH Bildu, I make it clear, we are against the current system of concerts and believe that concert planning has to respond to the new reality. And that happens, the new reality is that the public school is the backbone of the education system. And these new criteria will truly make public school in a much better quality than it is today. In saying this, the Basque People are quite consistent with the proposal that Podemos-Uuerda has brought us together today. We think it's a right proposition, and therefore we will protect it, and we'll vote together for Podemos IU's proposition. But it seems to us that it is only a short time, because it takes this proposition itself, and makes it deeper with the Jeltzac Party and the Socialist Party. We don't understand, I still don't understand why today there's not the signature of Podemos-IU together because I think it's a decision to place that signature in other factors than in content that it's focused on or not. However, we will protect your original proposal. Of course, we'll do it for ours. We are glad to get our proposition out, and I will add to it one of our wishes: We're making a way to get an education agreement, no one is superfluous in this way of getting a education agreement; we still have time to correct the original agreement, we still have time to improve that original proposition. And the Basque People will do theirs and their two efforts to make PodemosI feel comfortable together in this education treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u29	Good morning. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Martínez for this initiative. It seems to me to be one of the important issues within the new education law. And that's why it doesn't bother us, quite the opposite, we think it's one of the issues we need to talk about, and we need to talk about a lot. I have often said in this Parliament, in the Committee on Education and in plenary that there are many educational models in the European environment. At one end we have the Finnish model, all public; and at another end, for me unfortunately, we have the Basque model, where we have distributed almost 50% of the education system, concerted and public. That's why I think it's very... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... Unfortunately, we have the Basque model, where we have distributed almost 50% of the education system, both concerted and public. That is why I think it is very important that the Department's initiative to implement a reform of the education law and a reform that is necessarily - as we understand it - should be as broad as possible from the political point of view and, moreover, lasting, because we cannot be at the dawn - as, unfortunately, it has often passed in the State - of educational models that are changing according to the political party that is governing at the time. I think that's lethal to the world of education and to give it stability. That is why we applaud the Department's initiative to proceed with a reform of the Basque Public School Act of 93, which was carried out by socialist Fernando Buesa, with a remarkable consensus, and we understand the option of extending the current concerts that express the motion submitted by Podemos. Well, it's understood you want to introduce him like this. It would seem, indeed, more prudent to do so instead of renewing the concerts for a period of six years, which will presumably exceed the moment when we adopt a new law, which, of course, will have to say something about our system of educational concerts, the very debate of the law. But there are, however, - and you know it - legal obstacles to such an extension, as you put it. And given that the current concerts are already coming to an end, and given their weight in the educational system, as I said before, enormous, it seems appropriate to proceed with their renewal within the existing regulatory framework in order to avoid unwanted situations. But that is also why, and that is why we must also say that, precisely in this context, it may not be the most appropriate thing for the Department to propose at this time a modification of the decrees regulating the regulation of educational concerts and the implementation of the payment system delegated to the private educational establishments in Euskadi. Because we understand that it must also be the subject of that political negotiation, which is why the presentation has been made in this Parliament. If that were to be done as intended, it would come out of that agreement. As I said before, the law will have to say something about the system of concerts and the needs arising from the new challenges posed by diversity, the social cohesion of students, etc., etc. Various expert analyses point to school segregation as one of the problems facing our educational system. And, therefore, it should take a very important place in the reflections of the educational agreement. Of course, for us, for the Socialists, it is no small matter. It directly affects one of the basic pillars of our conception of education: equal opportunities for all, the right to a quality and equitable education that provides the enabling framework for our children to develop their full potential and acquire all the tools they will need to develop in a time of change. It is a priority, and it must also be a priority for the whole of Basque society, because here, like all societies, here too, Basque society plays a lot of part in its future, for the next 15 or 20 years, which has lasted the previous education law. And this debate, moreover, is not, of course, alien to another fundamental element of the Basque educational system: the commitment to the model of the Basque public school and its essential trunk character within the system. Therefore, so important or more important than solving emergencies, that it is true that there are, more important than all that is that we do things right for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Well, yes, Mr Martínez, we've been going for months on our way to establish the future of euscal education. And the treaty of education with the colleges of the compacts that are financed by public funds is an affair that is weighted in our disputes, which we have discussed before the establishment of ponciferation. We think... Well, and I think we all share this subject with the ideological depth. On our part, the Journal Party has always acknowledged that life between the two networks as a reality of euscal society, as a consequence or peculiarity derived from the social context of the past few years. It's not an anomaly (... ), as we have heard it, it is our peculiar peculiarity, that we are here to arrive at this state of our day, Euskandin, which answers to our political and social context we had 40 years ago. And now we are in another context, and therefore we believe that beyond these ideological principles the state must lead us to another mode of action. The process we're living in is positive, it's being honest, it's freeing us from many prejudices, it's appropriate, it's necessary. He's getting very rich, and we hope it's a positive result. But as in interpelation, the head of the Union answered, so long as all this is determined, while the changes are proposed, we have the everydayity. And this and this department have some duties: schools, students, family needs... The answer to these must be given. That's the office's job, too: To give these answers, to answer yesterday, to give them the answers to today. And today, it's amazing. The courses have to be started for the next course, the premants have to be deployed, they can't be left in a stand-by... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... schools have to be started for the next course, premants have to be deployed, they can't be left in a stand-by. They need answers today, guarantees, they need certainty. As you know well, by the compact of education, the support of private schools is regulated by public funds. And I shall mention the law in speaking of this subject, because technical arguments are very important, and these are objective, and we all know them. "Esquekadin is a Decree of '87, Mr. Martínnez has mentioned it. He's still strong and his 5th is 6th. and the sixth Articles determine the ends of their Covenant. In the State, too, there is an Organic Law of 2006, whose 116 and 117th these Articles have a right to autonomical Institutions, and establish the rights and duties of Covenants. In this law, the article 116.3 sets a 6-year-old period for the First Education, a minimum, and a four-year-old period for the next stages. And, furthermore, our decree, the famous Decret of '87, is established by the 18th. that this economic module to support each school unit must be like the cost of public instruction. As the chairman of the Union answered in interpelation, education has the object of being a service to those families, who choose, as an opportunity for the education of their children, a net under covenant, to all the students and their families. Thus, the concerts are agreements whereby the Administration takes on certain commitments, which are already defined, and the centre undertakes on its part to impart the relevant teachings free of charge; so far everything is correct. I think we all agree. Beraz, aitortu beharra dadokagu, bachita ére, legez, Saila derigortua dagoela. Ituna izadiko eskubidea duten ikastetxe pribatuek baldintzak betetzen dituzten horiekin itundu behar dute; baldinzatuta dago. Elkarrekin Podemoek, mozioaren bitartez, itunak gaur egunean indarrean dagoen araudiaren kontra, six urteko epean ez lumatzea proposedzen digu. Baina, horrek, Sail Honek eta Jaurlaritza honek legez kontra jokatzea edo jardutea suposatuko luke. Legally, in accordance with the current regulatory framework, it is not possible to renew the concerts in the terms proposed by Elkarrekin Podemos, even though now Mr Martínez says publicly here that he does not understand. You do understand, and you know it; you know it perfectly. But that's not the problem. The normative framework to which I refer is clear: the system of educational concerts as a legal instrument to give effect to the right to free education at certain levels was initially established by organic law in the year 85, the LOE, and has been maintained by organic law in the year 2006, the LOE, and from that law derived... of the previous, sorry, our decree of 87. On the basis of this decree, in 2016 a public call was made for the renewal of educational concerts here in Euskadi, and the subscription of new concerts. Six years have passed, and, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 85, the expiry of the term of duration of the concerts currently in force is the cause of extinction unless the renewal or extension takes place in accordance with the rules governing the regime of the educational concert, which today has not changed, because the LOMLOE, its LOMLOE, has not changed this. Are we going to let those concerts granted or renewed with a term of validity until the end of the 21-22 course go out of date, not renewing them or prolonging them? Are we going to leave all those centers without a way out? Are we going to give them the blinding? What about plan B? Do we have plan B? That is certainly not the style of this Government, nor of this Department, nor much less of the Basque Nationalist Party. We must act rigorously, in compliance with the rules in force. And, of course, it does not constitute a power of discretion, and for that there is very recent jurisprudence, moreover, giving reason to this argument that I am not going to mention right now for lack of time. We've all made this clear, and that's how we've always been dealing with the Department and our Party. However, the change comes now, and here the proposition comes, yet,−, within this frame, may be examined or adjusted by these rules of play: to lower the number of students in a compact college, or to equal the distribution of the students with a change of alliance, amongst all the schools which are kept by public funds. And she's ready to give you those steps. And it's ready, too, fun, if you change the framer. And so the active part of our −denon− is important in education poncientia, and to arrive at extensive agreements, always being as a sharing and adequate source, − we are not to be mistaken in adapting the education treaty to this. And then, changing the rules of gambling, he might be able to act differently, but not now and not with this regulation, as long as he makes us act thus. And being the best of all, and living in the power itself, we must leave the suspects at the door. Commitment is honest and self-evident. We've said it a thousand times, the bureau repeated it a thousand times, and I think our proposals and our journals have revealed it. And that's why, and for all of this, we've been able to get to the middle of the day. And I want to thank Mr. Arrese for his honesty, for making bridges and trying to clean them up. We'll go on. Today it is not possible to accept or agree a large agreement between us, but if there is a way, Mr. Martínnez said that we are very close. Seeing I've run out of time, I'll leave my first speech here, and we'll go on in the second.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing to the teams who've been running any corrections, Mistto... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... this is my first speech, and we shall continue in the second.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Here we see an attempt to buy time as the paper develops to define the basis of the future educational model of the Basque Autonomous Community. This is what the Lords of Podemos put to us today with this motion. An attempt to advance the entry into force of his longing education law. On the subject, they propose that the educational concerts be extended in the next course 2022-2023. And as they fear that even by then the law may not be ready, they want the concert to be extended for the next 2023-2024 course. Their fear is not that private-concerted educational institutions will be left without subsidies, that is clear, what they fear is that the next course will be implemented by the Order of April 27, 16, of the Education Council, and the concert will automatically be renewed six more years. Six years in which the ideological political instrument that they want to convert the future education law could not be applied. In short, his plan is to stop the renewal of concerts, leave them on stand by until the new law is passed. In Vox we are not going to allow this new attack on educational freedom, which is the background both of this initiative and of the future law. The current requirements for a school to have access to the concert go hand in hand to nationalist dictates and, they say, meet the needs of schooling. And what are those school needs? I quote: "the results of the process of linguistic normalization of the Basque language and the educational demand in this language". They make it very clear: the euskaldunization of our students. Parents should be able to choose freely how they want to educate their children, in which centre and in which language. And governments must respect it, shield the free choice of educational centre at all levels, as well as the educational model and guarantee the right to be educated in Spanish throughout the Basque territory. But, of course, the imposition of the euskera is a lobby, a lobby, moreover, very well assembled; a round business for those who promote it and for those who impart it, a perfect circular economy. These should be more than enough arguments to stop drowning the concerted school, but I'm going to give them more. Each student of the public school costs us 9,175 euros, compared to 3,450 euros of a school student studying at the concert. In addition, concerted education saves the Basque Government just over EUR 1 billion a year. That is to say, thanks to the concerted schools, the Government has more budget to invest in the public; not to mention the uniformity of the educational model and the values that are imparted in the concerted. Ladies and gentlemen, it is much cheaper to arrange places than to create them. Guaranteeing freedom of education is incompatible with the ideological indoctrination in the classrooms and the exclusion of Spanish that Basque schoolchildren endure. Our students want to study in their mother tongue, which, as much as it bothers them, is Spanish. That is the reasonable thing and what is also reflected in the Constitution, the Spanish Constitution. And what we have defended for all children since Vox, live where they live. Regrettably, progressive nationalist plans are not going this way. His idea of education is to use euskera to manage our students and indoctrinate them. How? Through the linguistic immersion. The one they have recently gone to copy to Catalonia. That is what is hidden behind the goodness of the nationalist parties and their pretended support for concerts of concerted education. As I told you once, children are like fresh cement: everything taught to them now will leave a mark on them for life. We are still in time, ladies and gentlemen, in time to imbue them with excellence and help them grow up as people and future professionals; speak in Basque or speak in Spanish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, Mr MartínnezIón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u36	Thank you. Mr Gil, yes, of course, it is well-intentioned, like everything we try; at least we try. And no, we are not against it, and in the 80 proposals - I believe that, I am sure, you have analysed the 80 proposals we have made from my group - we are not, what we are against is universal conciliation and conciliation without any kind of control. That is the situation we have at the moment, that the public money invested in the concertation is not controlled and that both a centre of any employer of the concertate is located - which assumes, even, rates of vulnerable students or of immigrant origin, more than 80% - as schools of Opus, elitists, or other kind of elitist schools. Our proposal is the public as the axis. And another thing that is not - and in that I believe that if I read the 80 proposals it will also be - nationalist. It is neither Spanish nor Basque, nor one thing or the other; nor Basque or Spanish nationalism. We are talking about the rights of students living in Euskadi, therefore, of Basques and Basques. But do not introduce debates that are not currently in the education paper. Because there is an ideological debate, that is, and I believe that Mrs Arrizabalga too, and I believe that Mr Arrese has also commented, and that must be defended. It is, of course, an ideological debate, therefore, of course; we are in a Parliament. The Basque Nationalist Party has its ideology and I have it, and we have ours. The question is whether we agree on the future of the Basque educational system, and there will be a mixture of all these ideologies. Mr. Arrese's speech was quite clear. Our proposal is in the same sense, and we demand that we make a people's covenant. And that's why Tuesday, Monday, we voted against these times. Not for a whim, but because we think of the discussion (... ), in this, it is necessary to be given in the legislature, but also in society. And we don't know, we don't know, we may as well agree between the proposals, that's what we're working on, and we're working on it, how it's going to work in society... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... We may, as we have already said, agree, and we are working on it, how this dispute which ought to be discussed among the agents of society will be made. But, well, the only thing I don't agree with is that yes, we like to bother ourselves and want to bother ourselves if that means, moreover, assuming contradictions, but assuming as axis the public school. It's a yummy horret. And with Mr. Pastor. Well, well, I appreciate the words about the initiative. And I agree... We agree on the strategic aspects of this debate. I think it might be... Beyond the more than 30 laws to be passed, I think it is the central debate of this legislature. And that not only the Government and the groups supporting the Government play a lot, but all the parliamentary groups, especially the future of the Basque education system, because we play a lot, a lot in this debate. That is why we are also unrelenting in this matter. And this is a subject of the ideological depth of Leixus, in which we agree. The singularity, the experience, you and I have always had a great deal to discuss about it, and there's a Basque sperm. But in this identity and experience there is a great deal of plurality, that we make these propositions either to be eroscal or to be euvocacy; and because they are many ways of being eroscal, I say that these peculiarities are not only the collisions of the two networks, and are much more numerous. It was the bermea buruz aritu zare era bai. Guk ez dugu sinatu, bainsa absentituko gara proposimen honetan. Ez dugu sinatu proposemena, ba, ez ditugulako ikusten nola bermatuko dueen erdibideko horrek Eusko Jaurlaritzaren ekimenak hemendik aurrera. Bath of the burus hitz egin duzu ére bai; of the burus kontzertua. He spoke about the agreements between the Administration and the educational institutions. And he quoted a word that I think is key, he said "freely." Are these new concerts going to be held, in your opinion, because it cannot be agreed bilaterally, as the adviser here stated in the response to the inquiry, a bilateral agreement with the educational institutions, will be guaranteed free in course 22-23 in total? Because that's what the legislation has been saying since the 1980s and it's 2022 and it's not happening. Por tan, we'll bring the proposals back. We're keeping confidence at this moment, and I've even said it out loud and clear. And that they've conditioned certain things outside the litter... or else I have publicly said that they conditioned our position, O sera, we must not invade it. But promises, promises, and guarantees must be introduced into the papers. And until we insert them into the papers, our suspicions will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u37	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Group Popular-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Starting at the end. Mr Martínez Zatón, I was very surprised to hear that your proposals do not support nationalist proposals. Careful, uh, see if they're gonna be working for nationalism without realizing it. I mean, let's see if it's gonna be unintentional, huh. Anyway. Many of you have repeated here that this education law has to be a country agreement. And I totally agree. I think we could all agree on this. I don't think it could be any other way. I think anything we do that isn't a country agreement is going to be a mistake, and it's going to last a little longer. Of course, then, you are also supposed to incorporate the views of the non-nationalist parties. Or aren't those countries? Or is it that country is only the nationalist country? And, in that sense, I have to remind you and everyone that the debate has not begun. At least the debate has not begun with light and stenographers. There has not yet been any negotiation here, there has been no conversation here, I repeat, at least on the table, there has been no debate here. In the presentation there have been about 100 appearances; questions have been asked to the participants. And there has been no debate here yet. Well, let's hope there is in the future. And let us hope that this debate will indeed allow for a certain country agreement. But for today let it be clear that our appearances... appearances are not a debate. And I say that because the document that the chairman of the committee has drawn up... You've considered the appearances as good as you thought. And, in fact, it has completely excluded the contributions of much of the appearances. Therefore, I repeat, there has been no debate here, there is no negotiation yet, at least with light and stenographers. Good. This debate has served to clarify, first, who is against the concerted and who is not, and also to make clear who is working to counter the concerted against the public. And this is a mistake that seems very heavy to me. We must support the concerted school, of course, and we must support the public school, of course. Both have serious shortcomings. And we both have to take care of them and we both have to give them the resources they need. Both are not enemies. Both do public service. And we need to support both of you. It would be a mistake, from our point of view, for the public school to face the concert or the other way around. Furthermore, we believe that this is not the case with a country agreement. We are sure that the public school does a great service to citizens, of course it does. And that it is necessary to strengthen it, of course it is. And that there are thousands of people and thousands of families and thousands of teachers who give up for getting a public school ever better, no doubt. And we also want that to be supported, recognized, strengthened, substantially improved, which is lacking. But that has nothing to do with us, in parallel, also attending to the other part of our educational network, which is the concerted network, which also feeds on public resources, which makes... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... in parallel, we also attend to the other part of our educational network, which is the concerted network, which also feeds on public resources, which does an excellent job as it has shown so far, and which is not enemy of the public network at all. So, I repeat. If we agree that a country agreement must be reached, I understand that, in order to be consistent with this, the views and contributions of the non-nationalist parties, even those who believe they are not, must be incorporated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u40	Thank you again, Chief. We think it's not just a technical debate. This is a technical debate, because legally technical responses must be given, but education − and I don't think it's strange to say this is a political ova debatæ. And for this reason, or unfortunately, our education remains dependent on it, and we can't forget this either. And we cannot forget that there are three organic laws in the root of this subject we are speaking of: LOE, PSOE; LOMCE, PPrena, and LOOMOE, PSOE, and Unidas Podemos, and so are the compacts of education, and educational compacts, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. Hence it seems to me that the time exists beyond what is regulated in Madrid, and that is the process of education. It wasn't the right thing to do, is it? Well, maybe. That this agreement needed more time? Maybe. Is it possible that suspicious people can show up? Maybe. But I want to put it in value. I want to put it in value, because it's the first time this size is created in this parliamentary law. That all the occurrences of this establishment are −100 public scenes, con luz y taquígraphos, and that any one may have seen them, and that they have appeared in a full file. It is also the first time that the operators beyond the jurisdiction of these parties, even a second turn, will be allowed to contribute to all who have passed, and to suggest. And because it's the first time, in the process of a law of education, that is to be decided in that state of this legislature, that the idea of fulfilling it has appeared in that process which ought to be done by the law. So I'd like to put this whole process in value that's been run by education agreement. For us, not the agreement at this moment is no longer an option, because the agreement will bring us to a state of things we have today. And we don't like the current situation, it's what we want to change. "El no accerdo para EH no es una option, porque creemos que, de verdand, con tenceridad, tumos a las puertas de lograr un granderdo de país, y specamos − impossisto que podamos ese gia gau coerdore la fuercis est, parmento." The agreement of the people, yes, of the education treaty in this country seems to us to be of great importance; And once that's done, the practice of the legislature will end somehow. And I'd like to invite the students of the community who have shown some distrust or other, and to start a process outside this legislature, to start a social process, to get a social contract, to get a new education agreement among the agents of education. And that would be, with political agreement, and with that accord which could be obtained by the educational operators, we should certainly succeed in obtaining a great educational agreement, and agreeing with each other, that the process of education of future education, which is really to begin, should be the case of the law of future education, and that of a new education, which will certainly attend the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u42	With your permission, from the seat. Well, as has been repeated on several occasions, we already have a document. A document that is called "the basis for education of the twenty-first century"; we are studying it. And in that document there are things that we like and others that we don't like so much. And that is why we think that there is still work ahead, because we understand that the previous consensus has to be given within the Government, and that is why certain aspects that have not just convinced us must be polished. So, we're on time. The goal is for us all to be able to leave hairs in the catera, as I have said on several occasions – as I believe we have all said in this rostrum – to make a broad consensus. Therefore, let us stop barren debates, and let us start working from now on to achieve that great agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u44	Thank you, Chief of the legislature, again. Well, yes, I ended up taking my first word based on legal and technical arguments, but I ended by saying that we could change the rules of the game or change us so that we could act differently. And that's where we attach the political point of view, which is today... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to be able to act in a manner. And in this we attach the political point of view, which is now half-seasoned. And I'd like to put it in value, too, because it's a strong and light-showing commitment. Eta bai Gil jaunari Eta bai Martínez jaunari nik esan nahiko nieke honetako eztabaidekin itunpeko sarea stigmatized Egyptian her. That's a hard one, baby. Eta guk you dugu bidea sareen arteko konplementazia izan beharko litzatekeela. Eta, horretara, Gil jauna, zure proposemenari ezezkoa ematera. Alde battik, argi dugu urruntzen gaituzten aspektuak diguula. He talks about the imposition of the euskera and its harmful consequences on the health of the student. And speaking Spanish-English, Spanish-German, doesn't that affect them in the psyche at all? I'd really like to see that medical report confirm that. It's not serious, and those kinds of issues drive us away. And, on the other hand, he also commented that he had proposed to us to recognize the work carried out by concerted education. And, of course, and the public, and the public. And that's what I wanted to move, because it's enough to confront each other, because they're complementary and both are necessary. Then do not misunderstand my words, for (...) what I answer him. That it was necessary to value both of them. And on the basis of this, we believed that it was much more timely and much more interesting to work on the proposal that was beginning to come between the rest of the groups, that went much further; because, in fact, it could be a step further, to take a step further within what we have already been working within the education paper, and it had all the logic. And the role of the bond network, Mr Martín, and the place in our education system, is legitimated according to the established regulations. And apart from this, and as we are opening the ideological positions to the desktop, this is the case with the Jeltzac Party: the model of the bond compact is a model of historical tradition, which has a regard to the country and has an approval of the euscal society. It has the strength for excellence and the pedagogical patterns, and it cultivates the strategic framework. And we believe that we must value the strengths of living together, both networks. We may agree that we ought to establish new rules of game, which we have made clear to make new commitments to society. And that's our proposition, today's proposition. And we were so close. This agreement, which received common points between us, might have been discovered. A step forward was very important. But here's what you said about fun. Elkarrekin Podemos has been given vertigo to agree with the PNV and to agree with the parties that support this government, because with this agreement we win all, we win all. They win the students, the students, who are the center, right? We're always talking about being the center. Families win. Win the education community. Ez ezkutatu mesfidantzen Azean. Ez izan beldurrik, izan ausartak. We will soon have to debate, we will have to agree and we will have to vote on the background document of the presentation that has been criticized by Mr Martínez. A great job on the part of Mr Alvarez, by the way. But we must remember that it is a basic document, that it is a document to start working. We're going to improve it, we're going to improve it, but honestly, I'm asking you for sincerity. And I wish you, I wish Elkarrekin We can have the courage to act responsibly, because that is what will give guarantees. Berme horiek horrek ekarriko said. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u46	Mrs Arrizabalaga, I very much disagree with you that we all win, I think you win a part of society, in this case the one that is nationalist, and we lose all those who are not nationalists. That's very clear to us. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, they are always against freedom, every time we talk about something always against freedom. It is, moreover, very typical of communist ideologies. You sell public school, but you go to private. This is not coherence. They sell that we don't eat meat, but good chops take you away. Forgive me, but there's no way to clear us up. What is sad is that in a plural Basque society we have to continue to stick to the freedom of choice of parents to the education they want for their children, and I think that is the first thing to take into account. How many public schools in the Basque Country have Spanish-language education? I'd like to be told. I can tell you: none, they don't give that offer. Is that the educational freedom you want for our children, really? Linguistic immersion, for example, to Catalan? That's not what we want from Vox for all Basques. We want equality and we want to be able to choose in which language we want to educate our children, we want the educational merit to prevail and not the language in which it is taught. We also believe that an educational agreement with Bildu little can benefit all Basques. It will benefit a part, that of them, but not that of all. And I believe that I also share the view that it is essential to live together peacefully and on an equal footing, with both the public and the private. We agree, but let us make the necessary moves so that the concerted ones are not subjected to the nationalist yoke and ideological demands only in exchange for subsidies. That's not what the Basques want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u47	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The discussion is over, and next we shall put the original text of Mr. Martínezin's motion to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u48	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the Euscal Socialists, EH, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 62; the opponents are 7; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u49	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposal of the Community-Populary of the Euscals-as made by the parlamentary band of Ciudadans about early attention. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mrs Garrido, representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadanos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u50	Gracias, señora presidenta. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President. The chief physician, the head physician of health, especially...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u52	Good morning, congressmen. To-day, the popular party has again given occasion to discussion about early attention. It is true that in the former law we encouraged the same debate, but when we saw the results, we thought it convenient to encourage it again in the legislature. I am glad, Mr Lehendakari, that you are here today in this debate. I am pleased that there is the Education Adviser and the Health Adviser, because, obviously, this debate is aimed especially at the Government, which (...) like the Government of people. But that a certain type of person and family is not being given the attention they need, of competences that fall to this Government, to the Government that you preside over, Mr Urkullu, and in particular to two specific departments, such as health and especially the Department of Education. I hope that Mr Bildarratz, who is now a little distracted, will listen to me carefully. If not, you have the opportunity to go out to the door of this Parliament and listen to the families who have so many times addressed the Basque Government with complaints, many of which have received no reply. As I said, this is not the first time we have brought this matter to Parliament, we have brought it to the last legislature. But seeing that things are still the same, or rather worse, that have worsened, we have considered it appropriate to bring this debate back to this Parliament. We all know, and you, Mr Bildarratz, Counsellor, Mr Lehendakari, will know very well what early attention is. It's not funny to me, Mr. Lehendakari. Looks like he's laughing. Looks like he's laughing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. It sounds like he's laughing, because I've seen him laughing. And the families will have a chance to check it out later in the video, because we're going to take the video out. He's smiling or laughing. Lehendakari, there's the video. [[Berber]] Well, I've seen what I've seen. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u53	Laura. Mrs Garrido, it's not, it's not, it's not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u54	He just laughed. I saw him smiling and laughing. I think it's a serious enough subject for the lehendakari not to laugh at...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u55	And who says he laughed at it? (... )
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u56	If you do not want to be present, leave, but a little respect for the families who are following this debate and those who are outside. Early care, as I said, is defined as a set of interventions aimed at children from 0 to 6, their families and their environment, from a health, educational and social perspective in three specific areas; we would say two in particular, such as health and education. The aim is to provide this comprehensive response to the permanent, transitional needs of these children with disorders or at risk of suffering from them. We're talking about transient, permanent needs. These are transient needs when we talk about rehabilitation therapies that can cure these children who come from premature birth injuries; or they are injuries that can be permanent, that we talk about serious cases of cerebral palsy and serious diseases. What kind of needs? All the needs that these children can present are special educational needs. Children who need to meet these motor needs, speech therapy and physiotherapy derived from language disorder, psychomotors, cognitive, sensory, behavior, autism, rare diseases, cerebral palsy. They need treatments and/or interventions enabling, rehabilitators and therapeutics. Therefore, no one - and families are well aware of this - is escaped from the importance of adequate, prompt care. When we talk about proper care, we also talk about proper care in intensity through the means that are needed. And I'll talk about this later. To act quickly, to give the required response, as I say, quickly, can clearly mark the evolution of the disorder that these children may present, clearly marking their future. What is the answer to these needs? What is the primary care model we have in the Basque Autonomous Community? This is the model that has been developed through the 2016 Decree, February 2, which was approved six years ago. And I would like to make a brief tour through the adoption of this decree and all the substantive processing and discussions that took place until this decree was adopted. It was a decree that was passed late. He waited for the PNV to be the one to control the three outlaws, for there to be a monocolor government in the three outlaws, as with many things has happened... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it was expected that the PNV would be the one to control the three outlaws, that there would be a monocolor government in the three outlaws, as with many things has happened. Because the Álava Diputation, ruled by the People's Party with Marta Alaña as a foreign deputy of Social Affairs, or the Gipuzkoa Diputation, ruled by EH Bildu, opposed this decree, because they said it was insufficient and announced what has happened, and what they have done to these families has been an abandonment in the need to care for children with these needs. The decree, as has already been seen, suffers from clear shortcomings by not detailing what is appropriate in the fields of health and education. We can therefore speak of an absolute abandonment of the functions of the Basque Government, when the attention required by these children is not being given. Attention is given to three levels, as described in the decree: in the primary, secondary and tertiary spheres. In the primary field, preventive actions; in the secondary field, detection and diagnosis; and in that of tertiary food, interventions that have to do with therapeutic sessions of all kinds. And this is where the three systems: education, social and health. But the consequence of the fact that no attention is being paid, especially in the educational sphere, Mr Bildarratz, is that the parliaments are in charge of functions which do not belong to them, because the Government does not assume those which it would have to carry out. The consequence is that the deputies, who are already making an effort - I know the case is that of the foral deputy, who is making a very good effort to care for these children as far as he is concerned -, in the attention now, once the decree of 0 to 3 years is in force, are saturated and overloaded. I don't know if the deputies general... of course, they're monocolored, they don't complain anyway. But the truth is that the situation of the parliaments must be seen because of the abandonment and inaction of his Government and his department in the attention. Yes, I'm going to focus on the attention now, Mr. Bildarratz. Look, these kids don't get the attention they need. And I encourage him, I encourage him to follow the testimony of the parents who are outside, and to listen to them and to listen to them, and to at least those complaints that he receives read them, and to answer them in at least some way, but to answer them. Look, they're not given the sessions they need, neither speech therapy nor physical therapy. Some children are given one session a week. These children, these parents, have to resort to private sessions, which is an important disbursement and that many parents cannot afford. And those who are given to their children make an important effort, because the public administration, the Basque Government, is not in charge of giving those help, those support, those resources in the form of sessions that these children need. They don't have enough staff to help them. In this respect, I would like to give absolute recognition to the staff and professionals with whom these children work, who fill in gaps; lack of means, lack of professionals, lack of training, many kinds of deficiencies that fill because they do not take charge of the Basque Government. Look, I'm going to give you another example. There are situations where people with disabilities are 70%, grade III, where there are 12 hours of caregiver. You tell me these children are absolutely dependent on how they can be with a caregiver for 12 hours. How do you treat those kids at school? The material is absolutely insufficient when we talk about material, or old, because if it is not... when it is not insufficient, it is old, because, of course, there is no new. Positioning seats, moulds, walkers, bipedestadores. You have to be aware and this Government should be aware of the importance that it is for these children to be well seated, to be in a good position to breathe, to attend to. It is essential that these children be in a good position for their evolution. Not to mention insufficient coordination among professionals. Look, an issue I heard yesterday in an SER program, and I also want to thank the parents who are following us here today in plenary, Berta and Sonia, and who, of course, draw a lot of attention and say a lot, Mr Bildarratz, and that is that in schools there are no inclusive swings in the courtyards of schools. We're not talking about exclusive swings, we're talking about inclusive swings for these kids, they're not. Look, in the public center that is the only one that exists to care for these children, Gorbeialde, there is a swimming pool, but there is a swimming pool that is not in operation, a swimming pool specially prepared for these children, is closed. Children who need rehabilitation in this pool cannot do so and are going to other pools in other areas which, of course, are not prepared and which is a greater effort for parents. This is the reality of the care given to children with special needs in the Basque Country. Of course, as I said, the future of these children depends on the attention given to them by education; a care, as I said before, of quality, necessary to ensure development. Children with educational needs in Euskadi are not being given the attention they need. Children in the Basque Country are not being given that attention, Mr Bildarratz. And I regret that Mr Urkullu is not following this debate, because here he had to be following this debate and listening to families; and if not, he has a chance to get out and listen to them, because they are out, but to hear his testimony, because a government that is precious, that serves people and that puts people on the axis of its government's action cannot leave unattended a type of family that is in a situation of absolute vulnerability because this government does not put the necessary means to meet these children as they require and meet minimum needs. It's just that we're not talking about caring and extra attention, we're talking about minimal attention, giving these kids what they really need. As families said, they are tired and are already in a situation of total impotence. Of course, I think that a government can speak for nothing about integration and an inclusive school - which you like very much, Mr. Bildarratz, to use these terms in your speeches -... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... I think that a government can speak for nothing about integration and an inclusive school - which you like very much, Mr. Bildarratz, to use these terms in your speeches - when children with special needs in Euskadi are not being treated as they need to be. This will be anything but integration. It will be something else, but, of course, Mr Bildarratz, let us not call it integration. That is why I was telling them that I invite them to listen to these families, listen to them and do something, and that they certainly do not remain in the position they are holding so far. Look, in this regard, and I am finalizing, we have put forward an initiative, which, as I say, is the same as we put forward in the last legislature because there has been no progress, we have gone to worse. And, in this regard, we propose the amendment of the current decree of integral intervention in early care in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to specify, once and for all, the competences of each social, health and educational system both in the financing and in the execution and provision of interventions at tertiary level. And we also urge this Government, especially the Departments of Health and Education, to lend themselves to all these shortcomings, all these shortcomings that I have highlighted today in the attention... from the care of these children, which I have not taken from them, who are from the testimony of these parents, we call for these treatments that these children need especially in the Departments of Health and Education. I'll tell the three- or six-year-olds they're the ones who're in school. With regard to the proposed amendments, I would like to say a number of things. I find that Podemos and Bildu are insufficient, especially because they refer to an evaluation. I believe that Podemos does provide some more than we could agree on, such as strengthening and equipping more professionals for early attention, strengthening inter-institutional coordination. But the one that, of course, does not have a pass is that of the groups that support the Government, when they say to continue, to continue, to continue with what is being done, to continue to promote collaboration, when there has been progress... I don't know where they call advances... what they call advances to what are setbacks and can't be... I do not know how they can continue to say that what is being done is going on when, practically, nothing is being done and no help is being given to these families, Basque families, as they specify and as they require the needs of these children. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u57	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who were running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u58	Bai. Egun on. I think I will be more or less brief, but not because it seems to us that the issue is not important, because, moreover, it is an issue on which we have already discussed on previous occasions, as Mrs Garrido said, and where, moreover, there was an agreement in the previous parliamentary term, in which we, of course, were, but it is true that we too consider that no progress has been made towards that agreement. We share the concern expressed by Mrs Garrido about the need for changes in early care. We also note a lack of such comprehensive attention. Although we believe that at present it is not so much a problem of lack of definition of competences, as the People's Party explains in the justification of its proposal not of law, but above all of lack of development or of deployment of services. The problem, in our view, is that decrees are established by setting the criteria for care, but then the public services are not deployed to ensure that these criteria are fully met. It is also true that resources are lacking. We also agree on this. They have already ensured that there are no resources now, or at least that there are not sufficient resources. But we did want to warn or at least put the magnifying glass on a question. We are concerned that the solution is not to benefit the private health service company, but rather to ensure the deployment of services in the areas of health and also in education, but to enhance public resources. This is an important issue for us. It seems that it is never at the centre of the debate and that we cannot let go. It is important for us to ensure adequate early care, understood as a right and as a public service. And that requires public resources, but it also requires leadership from the public. Early care is part of educational needs, it is true. It is true that it has to do, of course, with health, but it also has to be done in the educational sphere. I think we all agree on that. But it is very important to bear in mind that early care also covers or should cover girls and boys without schooling, who are in the age groups where education is not compulsory. And we think we have to take this into account. It was very positive to extend it to six years at the time, but we think that at the moment the early attention given is limited in a very important area to those girls and boys who are not attending school, but, of course, in the educational field as well. What we propose in our alternative amendment to which Mrs Garrido proposes is to strengthen and provide the necessary resources, because we do agree that more resources, professionals and materials are needed for early care in health, education, indeed, and in social services, which also have to continue to play a role, guaranteeing direct public provision, we add, of them. Because, as I said, it is a debate that, of course, we do not want to leave out, for our group it is important. Secondly, strengthening inter-institutional coordination, because, as I said, we think that it is not so much a question of defining competences at this time, but of ensuring that they are fulfilled and that... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Interinstitutional cooperation, because, as I said, we believe that it is not so much a matter of defining competences at the moment, but of ensuring that they are fulfilled and coordinated in an institutional way. And, yes, we include through the evaluation and also subsequent updating of protocols. Promote evaluation together with individuals and families who are users of early care services. This seems fundamental to us, we have to rely on them and on them. We include promoting the mapping of reference and proximity professionals set out in the Social Care Strategy itself. Finally, we propose something that we believe is important: to ensure the ability of families to choose an early care centre, as reflected in the guiding principles of current legislation, but ensuring that all centres have the necessary profiles established to ensure that early care is comprehensive. Because the latter, that freedom of choice, is formally enshrined in the regulations, but it cannot be complied with if it is not guaranteed that all the centres, or at least all the areas - I am not going to make myself great - do not have the necessary profiles for early care, because the lack of some profiles in some places then totally conditions that capacity of choice. In this respect, it is the amendment that we are presenting, which, in the end, I would like to stress, for us, the important thing is to ensure the full deployment of services from the centrality of the service as a public service intended to guarantee rights, and this requires coordination between institutional areas, certainly we share that, but it also requires leadership and centrality of the public, and this is where we wanted to focus on this debate today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u59	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Representer of the EH team, Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u60	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, all of you who have come to the congregation and to the members of the family; welcome. Well, for starters, I'd like you to notice the importance of today's subject. For all the interventions and all the protections which are paid at the early stage of attention, and which are unfortunately not given, have an enormous impact on the life and daily life of many children and families, and on the projects which they will have to build, and on the level of their autonomy. And, in order to realize that, I invite you to do a little exercise. For a moment, imagine what it is that is supposed to be either difficult or to have a child in danger of having them. Because he knows what he's got, but at least we can try to figure out who doesn't get us, right? We can try to put ourselves in the other's place and imagine how you have to feel when you perceive or communicate that your Txiki has difficulties with language, in behavior to relate or any disorder at the level of development, at the motor, cognitive, sensory, evolutionary, behavioral, emotional level, right? We can imagine how complex and difficult it has to be. And in front of that, what is needed and expected by families and children? There's protection and attention. The best attention, the continuous, the integral, the necessary ratings and treatments, of course, but also information and advice, because such situations are very difficult and hard, and many families feel very lost. And therefore it is necessary that they should have proper tastes, to give them the means, to prevent the situation. And all this, of course, in public, without bleeding family economy and pockets. This is what families expect in the face of truly complicated situations: they expect information, support, support and care, but comprehensive care, of quality, sustained in time and public, that their Txikis receive all the necessary tools at the health, educational and social level. Hori dai, Azkenean, Eta Finan, gaurko eztabaidaren muina: complete goiztiar arrest Bultzatzen jarratizea Eta Aztertzea, egun nolako were an ematen zaien haur eta familia di horia. And in this sense it must be said that the discussion is not new; here it has been mentioned. Before he accepted the decree, he had rather a few discussions about it. And then, in 2017, the same discussion we are to have here, or very like to-day, was here given in the legislature, and the middle-direction was unanimously signed, to expand and to develop, to encourage, and to direct the decree of the early-time intervention. The common principles were established. And from this discussion, I would like to bring in two accounts today, because I understand that they are very useful in understanding the situation of today. On the one hand, the decree had a suitable purpose and purpose, namely, that it was in the early care to overcome chaos and to arrange and co-ordination all the interventions, based on the fertility of the scissors. It is, therefore, a good nature and a useful principle, but it is but little and little in the technical application and distribution of the duties and cares of the system. And that has had some consequences. In that sense, it's been six years since the order has been approved. We believe that time will suffice to see what development they have had, and how their interventions have been structured on three complicated systems, and in many cases they have not been properly developed. And knowing that there are benefits, but there are also great deficiencies and defectes. We know that the role endures everything, that the decree can have a good basis and be full of good intentions, but it has been six years since its adoption and reality tells us that there are still imbalances between the three systems involved in early care, that there are deficiencies in coordinating with each other and also great inequalities between territories, and, ultimately, that we should be doing more and better. Eta, zentzu horretan, ba, bai ditugu adibide batzuk; hemen Garrido andreak aipatutako batzuk, baisa, sektoreko profesionalek eta famek behin baino gehiagotan azaleratu dituzte beste batzuk, éta, buen, gaur nik batzuk aipatu nahiko nituzke. A system of education and social services is given collisions and intangibles. Professionals and families show that in many cases the axiss are given in one system or another, and not arranged in the same way as the decree foresees. That is to say, some children who go to early centres are not assisted in schools because the Administration understands that they are already paying attention. And vice versa, if attention is given to them in education, they are not directed to a center. And one thing doesn't have to get rid of the others... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and vice versa, if attention is given to them in education, they are not directed to a center. And one thing doesn't have to be removed from the other, the decree clearly indicates that we have to focus on three systems for integration. Heinera, izan daiteke --hala izazen da askotan -- haur batak behar batzuk izaza eskolan bere hezkuntza prozesua aurrera erateko, éta bieste laguntza mota batzuk aurre egiteko inguru sozialean. And to put it another way, because it is receiving attention in an early-care development center does not take away that support is needed in a classroom; and vice versa. Because in order for attention to be comprehensive it has to be given in the three systems in a sustained, coordinated way. And this doesn't always happen in every case. And if there's a problem at the coordination, right? The workers of early-term centers tell us that they don't have enough to do proper attentions and co-ordinations, or even to develop their educations with families. The outfits of the companies assign to the children a series of sessions in a month, less than was necessary in general, only some of them give two sessions in a month, and for each, only for two hours of co-ordination. That way it's impossible to concentrate on an integral and continuous attention. And it's serious because it breaks the same character as the decree. And one more thing: Pressing on diagnostics. According to what the professionals accuse, in order to acquire the means of assistance in education, that is to say, which the innovations assign to the schools, there is much pressure over the families to be diagnosed by children. And often we think we ought to be very careful about it, because sometimes, in the stages of development, it is impossible to make a precise diagnosis; and, on the other hand, because it is not often convenient, because it may suppose that we put the weight on the child, classing and limiting it. Then we think that's dangerous. And to finish, I'd like to say a last thing, because the experts have also warned us about it. The pandemia has had a very negative impact on the development process of many children, and still more among those who have difficulty. On the one hand, because the gates had been shut up for a time by the strongest of the pandemonies and the early centres of attention, the attention was interrupted, and the entrance was shut up at the service, with the harsh consequences of it. And we know that in the period of development, and in the early part of an early period, it is in time and quickly in the intervention of hand. And, on the other hand, in the pandemae, because the strict measures which children have suffered have not assisted them, because they have in many cases brought serious consequences. The tools and means of overcoming things in a natural way have often ended; others the contact, the movement, the relations around them. And just think what it was for a lot of kids to hear that you can't take toys to class or share things with classmates and co-workers, that you can't join other kids, touch them, hug them, and watch out what you can do with grandparents. They've received hundreds of such messages through the pandemonies. The first years of life are very critical in the development of many arts, even in social affection. And, well, that pues area has been very conditioned for the last two years. We think, then, that there are enough elements on the table, and that the time has come to reflect, is necessary for us to examine and analyse and evaluate in our early attention the decrees, and in our development, objectively, and to make decisions on it, and not to make decisions about it? ; a decree to update and adapt, but after a thorough examination. For us simple and simple: to evaluate what has been done so far, what have been the successes and, above all, what we are failing in, where are the shortcomings in the attention, in what we can improve; and, on the basis of this, to modify the decree so that interventions in the early care are truly integral and respond to the support needs of our txikis. This is the moment of egokia izan daitekeela hori guztia egiteko. In this sense we have made our corrections, according to the agreement which has hitherto been given. And I'd like to put that on the table today that there were some agreements and we think we should be here today, right here on the table. And that's why we'll protect our correction. And simply, but remember that such chances, such a future, that the chances we give to our children today, will determine the future people, nay rather, that they are our futures, and that we are. So it's time to be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u61	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u62	Yes, thank you very much, President. Issues affecting the health and development of our children always have a significant impact on families. From our parliamentary group we believe that it is necessary to continue working to improve the set of interventions from the institutions so that we can develop... to prevent and treat this type of disorder as much as possible, and to do so from a global, health, social and educational and interdisciplinary perspective. Early care is now targeted at children aged 0 to 6 years, with developmental disorders or at risk of suffering from them, involving three areas: education, health care and social services. The Basque model of early care involves different institutional levels, and that is why my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, believe that it is necessary to continue to promote this inter-institutional collaboration in order to further improve the quality of life of minors with this type of needs. This is one of the lines of action that we put forward in our electoral program and that we moved to the government agreement to develop during this legislature because we share the need to strengthen early attention. As a result, this line of action has been incorporated into the Euskadi Social Welfare Strategy 20212024, presented on 22 October, which will be developed in this mandate. This is the last one, but they're not the only... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... of October to be developed in this mandate. This is the last one. But they are not the only actions taken in recent years to strengthen early care. And I will focus on the actions carried out until November 2017. As has already been said, the adoption of Decree 13 of 2 February 2016 on Comprehensive Early Care Intervention in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country established the regulatory framework for early care by laying down the basic rules for organising and coordinating interventions to accompany it in the fields of education, health and social services, with the aim of ensuring comprehensive, effective action; coordination of actions between the different areas indicated is a key factor. The Basque Council for Social Welfare was established. He prepared a document on the model of early care in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And that served as a reference to an Interinstitutional Technical Commission that also served for the elaboration of the decree of 2016. We also have the Interinstitutional Council for Early Care. At the plenary session on 16 November 2017, a subsequent motion for an inquiry by the People's Group was discussed, which is the same as what was presented here today. What the People's Party then proposed was that it did not agree with the text of the decree, because when it ruled in the Foral Diputation of Álava they did not agree with it. He was told at that time that we felt that there was no need to amend the decree, but that further progress was needed in its development. In addition, we made an effort on the part of the various parliamentary groups and signed a six-point compromise amendment, which was quite broad, where we found ways to make further progress in this direction. And since that date, another series of actions have also been carried out. During the year 2018 within the Interinstitutional Council for Early Care, a working group was held for the analysis and evaluation of the funding data provided by the education, health and social systems in order to seek joint funding formulas for the early care services in which the systems are provided... in the health, education and social system, and draw up a report with the conclusions drawn from that analysis. Conclusions that were provided in November 2018 in order to further advance the design of joint funding. Secondly, after a participatory work and after the preparation of all reports and memoirs, Decree 110 of 2019 of 16 July on the Catalogue of titles, studies and professional competence that allow the accreditation of professional qualification in early care was adopted, thus fulfilling the commitment made by the Basque Government in this transactional amendment. In 2018, a new Master's degree in Early Care was created at the University of the Basque Country, which includes a specific postgraduate training in early care already adapted to what this decree of 2019 marked. In addition, the master's academic committee contributes to early care research and provides innovation in this field with specific academic professionals for such purposes and collaborates with the Interinstitutional Technical Commission for Early Care in all necessary aspects. In 2020, following its process of study and participation, a number of documents were also approved for implementation in the education, health and social systems, and in the outlaws and municipalities. A guide to action in the intervention and provision of early care services in the Basque Autonomous Community was developed, which includes secondary and transition coordination protocols between the education, health and social systems and the completion of the intervention process; a specific protocol for the completion, where appropriate, of the transition between intervention process systems and a summary guide for families on information on the comprehensive early care intervention system. Valuing all these protocols and guides to strengthen inter-agency coordination. Fifthly, a study is being prepared on the intervention of early care specialized in children and families of foreign origin. And sixthly, work has been done on designing personalized care plans. And finally, seventhly, in the common state framework for early care, the Royal Patronage on Disability, a body attached to the Ministry of Social Rights and the 2030 Agenda, has prepared in 2021 a proposal for a report on the deployment of the right to early care. To this end, a diagnosis is made of the current situation of early care and contains various proposals for action in this area. It also incorporates a work strategy for 2022. The Basque Government's Directorate for Families and Children has made a number of contributions to the report's proposal to ensure a work proposal consistent with a model of early care of public responsibility that plans intervention from an interdisciplinary health, educational and social perspective. In short, we are making progress in improving inter-agency coordination, which is a fundamental issue for us, and action has been taken to improve all protocols of action. And we must continue to work on the commitments contained in the recently adopted Social and Social Strategy 2021-2024. It is not necessary for this the reform of the Decree 2016 as again to ask the proposing group... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... the reform of Decree 2016 is not necessary for this, as the proposing group again asks. But I have not only said so; other groups in this House have also said so right now. And, in addition, diagnoses are being made of the current situation, but a complementary assessment could also be made, also to assess the situation. That is why we will support our amendment to the totality signed by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist Group, which calls on the Basque Government to continue to promote this inter-institutional collaboration between the education system, health and social resources of the Foral Deputies, so that the person, in this case the children with special needs, remains the axis on which public services aimed at improving their quality of life and their social integration are based. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u63	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gourga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone, and welcome to the family too. We didn't understand very well from the start why this discussion has been brought about in this manner. We didn't quite understand it, especially because there was the same discussion during the previous law. You started from that maxim in the past law, but there was an agreement, and from that change of decree a step was taken, in order to make an commitment to everybody on the way to the agreement, and to ask you to make a few commitments. And today, it has been clear to us why this initiative has come. This sense of politics has been introduced, in order to play politics, and today it has become clear what has been done in this chamber. He doesn't have a walk for us today, and we're very clear what he's come for. I wrote here, "We don't understand very well." Well, today I understand very well why this initiative has come. As I said in the previous law, we had an initiative that was unanimously accepted. Mrs. Sánchez mentions the commitments that took place in that enterprise, and we'd say that it was almost 100 percent. So, funk has an engagement to take steps in front of this. I think it's a very sensible subject to be playing these games, and I think it's the President's head. You talked about your family, and you brought your families here today. But when you talk about the family, we don't even like using them to make theater this day. I'm family myself in this case, and I don't like what's been done today, and I don't know what intention it came here. For us, when an initiative like this comes along, it's meant to do a serious job first and to find an agreement between us. And we think that's not what happened here in the last few weeks. We therefore believe that it does not have a pass on how this initiative has been brought here today and the attitude that has been taken to present this initiative. And we didn't know, we weren't very clear what you came to, and you made it very clear to us, Mrs Garrido, why you brought this amendment. You have brought this amendment to make noise, but not to reach any minimum compromise, neither for families nor for these children. We have a clear notion that the way of agreement is about this subject, that we must establish our action in agreement, as well as that of the legislature; for if this decree has anything to be its foundation, the agreement between systems is that which we ought to do in this matter also. Education is a decree that contains the system of society and health systems. And he supposed a very important step forward to set this decree to work, as early from December 26, 2016, early notice became subjective. And we believe it was a clabe, that it had been a progress, and that he had supposed a very important step on the road he had made so far. Then it seems to me that we are standing in front of a system that is based on a constant analysis, and that it must be so. We clearly see that we are in the presence of a system which we must continually evaluate and improve, because these children deserve it, because families deserve it. And, as I speak of agreement, I would like to insist on co-ordination as well. It seems to me that co-ordination is very important, that it requires dynamic teams that will work between systems, and that we need dynamic and co-ordinate groups of jobs which will know how to respond to the needs of children and families. As it is a very instinctive subject for us, we are now discussing a subject which is extremely important, as it is explained in the decree: In the development of children between 0-6 years, these privations can take place at any time. We've been born since the time, and in that process of gadding, since the time of the baby, right? And if all systems respond, we have a lot to do. The dimensions of the community are enormous because the children's − and −% of families support it, and, to resist it, we need the best equipment and services. Why? Now, because I say of scientific evidence that some cases can be avoided if they are carefully handled by time, others may be corrected in some measure, and this − is important, which has the most negative consequences, if they are well handled. So, I think it's important to stress the work we've done for the past few years. I read bestekoaren head jotzen baldin badugu, hemen has inbattio daude guk bat egiten ez dugunak. We believe that the argument behind this initiative does not, does not conform to reality. Because, on the one hand, it is said that historically these interventions had been assumed by the Foral Deputies in the age range of 0-3 years, and by the education and health systems in the range of three to six years. Well, we are very clear that this decree contains very well what the competencies of each system are and how they have to deal with them. But we are also very clear, both the education system and the health system, what steps they must take. The health system, from the beginning of life to the end of life, has a relevant role, and we believe that the educational system also plays a great important role. And I'd like to talk... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... until the end of life has a relevant role, and we believe that the education system also plays a great important role. And I would like to talk about what support is being given from the education system, which will certainly be capable of improvement and which, when we talked about this earlier, we have said many times: we agree to improve, to seek improvements, to seek commitments to move forward. But there are already support from the education system: support for the development of communication and language; support for the development of basic skills; support for access to basic skills; support for the development of autonomy and access to skills; support for the development of functional skills and access to the curriculum. There are several supports given, which are improveable? We have no doubt that they will be improved, and there you will find us. But we believe that the attitude that has been brought to this Parliament today does not help us to work together to take further steps. I would also like to point out that the functions and services are different for the three systems, as mentioned here; and it is important to talk about them, but it is also important to talk about the early-care assessment teams, which are the ones that set up a personalized plan for each child. And that's where you frame within each competition what functions each system has to carry. And that is where we put the strength: in the agreement, in the coordination and in the individualization of every child, child and family. Finally, I wanted to make it clear that we are not about amending this decree, we are about improving services. If we're about to move forward, we believe in coordination. I repeat again, if we believe in the agreement, we do not believe in the theatre that has been held here today, and we do not believe that we do not start from anything or that some do nothing. Yo creo que otro de los... One of the commitments which Mrs. Sánchez has made during the preceding legislation, is one of those engagements which she has said, and which she sees she fills and has an interest in. And it's another social strategy. In this social strategy, it is said that we must take a step here, and that this attention must also be coordinated between the sociantary and the degree of education, and that we must increase in this. And that's where you see progress in strategy, that 2021-2024, that makes progress as though it were progressing. And in this way we have an absolute disposure to make agreements of agreement. But to do what's done today, nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Passing the answer round, representative of the Basque Groups of Popular-Cellanos, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u66	Well, yes, Mrs. Gurutxaga, that's clear to us. And it has become clear to us not only to our group, but to the families who are represented here today and who are on the street. And you who speak of so much sensitivity, I would like you to listen to them, to listen a little bit to their testimonies or to hear yesterday a conversation in the Being, which is only half an hour, and to hear the testimony of these parents and in the situation in which they are in parents for the abandonment of the Basque Government. And the group that you represent would be asked, because today you have come to this rostrum, that a respect for initiatives that echoes a demand from the families that are in the situation in which they are. They are in the situation because the Basque Government and the Department of Education do not give them the attention they need. I don't know if you think it's enough for an hour of logopeda. I don't know if you think it's enough that these children don't have the material until they are six years old, which takes 3 to 6 years in schools to get up. That there are no inclusive swings in schools. There is a swimming pool in the only public school of these characteristics that is closed. What are you telling me here that if you do, you do...? If they do nothing, if they do nothing, if we have gone backwards, because there are the cuts; it is that we have gone backwards. And, look, the consequence of this government's abandonment and inaction has been that families are abandoned. These families are abandoned, they are in a situation of impotence, they no longer know what to do, they no longer know what to do. And the consequence is that you sell us here that do things, of course, do things, then it's the deputies that have to carry and you're suffocated because the Department of Education doesn't do what it has to do. If there are children who are taking them out (...) teaching hours, in their class hours for them to receive a speech session that must be given by the congress; because the Basque Government is unable to put in the necessary means for this. Material and human means. What are you talking to me about? What are you talking to me about? What are you talking to me about? It's all word of mouth. They are always installed in their discourse of self-congratulation, that they do not admit criticism. They have their eyes closed to reality. The Basque Nationalist Party only sees reality, its reality; but the reality in this country, in Euskadi, goes far beyond what the Basque Nationalist Party represents, and it is the needs of these families, special educational needs that are not being given, that are not being given. And since the decree has served no purpose, the decree already suffered from inadequacies, because, of course, you tell me the assessment teams, of course. The Chambers are valued, and the competences and what belongs to the Basque Government, which serves them later, as they are not valued and attributed and are not distributed what the Basque Government has to do, then the Basque Government serves to wash its hands. It's just that that's what's going on, that's what's going on. And that's not what they're going through. And that's what families, which is what's serious, is the situation that you would have to blush at least a little bit, is that it's the situation that families are living, the situation with these children. Please listen to families with these children, the needs they have. We are talking about children who are often transient disorders, who, if they intervene soon, can have a better future. We are talking many times about disorders as they are permanent. We're talking about those kids need everything, they need support to stand up, they need support to sit well; they don't have the material or make the molds so they can sit well in school. It's just that I'm not saying it, it's just that I've listened to the parents. Have you dedicated yourselves to listening to the parents and mothers of these children? How can they come to this rostrum and say what they say when they haven't done...?... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I've heard the parents. Have you been worthy to listen to the parents? The parents of these children? How can they come to this rostrum and say what they say when they have not echoed any of their demands? What are you telling us here? Tell us what the decree says? If we already know it, we know it from memory, parents know it very well. But if I don't care what the decree says, if the decree isn't worth anything. We need effective tools to respond to the needs of these children. And we need a committed government, and we need a committed government, that when I talk about inclusive education, it's really inclusive education and it's not a farce, that's what inclusive education is in Euskadi with these children and with these families: it's a farce and it's a lie. And you tell the children and parents who are out of this Parliament now when you come out, tell them that you keep your agreement, that your agreement is to do nothing, that your agreement is not to help them, that your agreement is not to remedy the multiple shortcomings and shortcomings that these children have in the attention that this government, the government of Urkullu and the government that stands in the people's government at the moment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u67	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u68	Bai. Very briefly. Mrs. Garrido, I agree with you in many of the things you have said, but not in another. And I believe that in your intervention, now, at the end of it, you have contradicted yourself in that sense. To us (...) the problem both the decree, moreover, that we know that the paper endures everything. You have put a lot of emphasis on the lack of inaction, which is what we have been claiming: the deployment of services. And that is why in our initiative we are putting forward concrete actions for the deployment of these services, which is where I think the problem lies and what we should demand or ask the Basque Government to actually deploy these services. Then we have focused on the attention with our own resources, which, as you know, is an important issue for us, but which, beyond that, I am sure we could have reached an agreement or agreement even wider than on another occasion. But I believe that we should not focus so much on this amendment of the decree, but rather on the deployment of services, because we can amend the decree and, surely, whether the political will of those who have responsibilities in the different institutions, which are also currently governed by the same parties as you know well, because, surely, in a few years' time, we could encounter the same problem and the same debate. That is why we want to maintain our amendment and we will abstain from its initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Collect EH, Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u70	Thank you, ma'am. Well, so am I. Very brief. I do not think that I am going to prolong much in the taking of the first word, that we have made our proposals clear to each one, even to our dispositions and intentions; I think they have been made clear. We didn't understand it very well, we didn't quite understand what was meant by the initiative that had been introduced, which was previously established in common agreements about the early 2017. There was already an arrangement, a medium in which some of the minimum of it was marked to work. And today's exercise and the proposal made didn't bring anything new, it made it worse. Today... they were common, because they despised their former agreements. And, well, to-day, in this discussion, we have tried to make two things clear: on the one hand, that these common foundations and decrees also give us certain grounds, but that reality shows us that there are some privations in the early care, some flaws between systems and countries, and that this has a serious impact on the lives of many children and families. So what we planned was to make a thorough evaluation to see where these deficiencies are, and how we must improve them, and then the changes that we have to make will come, and perhaps a revision and some adaptations on the decree. In this sense, at the last moment, we will sign half-way with the government, because we believe that we really need to know what direction we're going to take, and that's why we need an evaluation. So it's a little bit too small, but we'll bet, and there'll be other initiatives coming from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u71	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u72	Andrea: Look, Mrs. Garrido, in the absence of arguments, you have used bad forms in this rostrum today, but I remind you that that is not why you are more right. You have made no effort to reach agreement with any other group in the House today. You've introduced this initiative, you've come here, you've started talking in the gallery, you've started spewing at each other, you've said why there's not one, why there's no other... Well, look, I'm telling you, little should matter to the rest of your group because you're alone in the chair. And you've been drawing everyone's attention in your interventions. Starting over there. Regardless of that, as I have pointed out in my speech, we believe it is important to keep moving forward... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... Over there. Regardless of that, as I have pointed out in my speech, we believe that it is important to continue to make progress in promoting inter-institutional collaboration in the education, health and social resources system of outlaws so that people, in this case minors with special needs, continue to be the focus of public services. On the other hand, I have also pointed out in my first intervention that, although a diagnosis of this situation is being carried out at the state level, of the current situation, we too would not be wrong to carry out an evaluation report of this decree of 2016 of 2 February of Comprehensive Early Care Intervention. That's why I think we could try, if you want, perhaps, to reach a compromise between our point and its first point. We still agree. I think there might be a meeting point there. If you want, we could do it, we're still in time. I believe that this could be perfectly compatible and our amendment as a whole could be completed with its first point. But that's up to you, too. For our part, we have already pointed out what we had to point out. Nothing more. (Thank you so much?)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u73	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it is a very sensitive issue that we are discussing here today, and I have repeated it several times. And you talk about families. And I repeat again, I am also a family; I also know the complication that this has and the sensitivity that it has and what it generates in families. I have no doubt what's going on behind all this. But what I'm clear is that through this theatricalization we're not going to get anything. You have spoken of respect for initiatives. Initiatives are respected by working with them, trying to reach agreements and clearly also having an interest in them. Because now Mr. Barrio has arrived, but where have you been?, as Mrs. Sánchez has said. What interest has Mrs Garrido's group had in this initiative? When you so much like to talk about the lehendakari, the Sailburus, and what interest have you shown today in this initiative? I think coming in that tone, coming to do those grades, looking for drama to families, of course, won't help. What would help would be an agreement. And therefore, I would like to ask, President Andrea, for a recess to try to reach an agreement. Because, as I said, this government has every commitment to finding ways forward and it is on the road that we should all find. You yourself signed an agreement in the previous legislature. And that agreement has been set in motion point by point. The commitment that the Government has maintained is unspeakable to our group. And I believe that the interest they show is also not greater, as I said before, when neither the agreement has been worked out nor sought. You have also spoken about the case in question. Well, we could talk long and hard about this case. Because outside parliaments have been working on this for a long time, and it is true that since 2013, 2015, on that turn, we could say that the parliaments began to take more significant steps. But it is also true that Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia went a long way and the Alaves, on the other hand, waited to get closer to this decree. And when you have spoken of political colors, I think that every political color should also make its own self-criticism and its own reading of why each one started from where it started. And I believe that this decree if it is helping anything is to homogenize those services, to seek joint attention. And that's what you're working on, isn't it? And I believe that, for that reason, this decree must be valued. That he's got things to improve? Of course. We're not gonna deny it once. Not once will you hear us deny that. But we believe that through the theater that is not solved. I was just wondering, "Y como he dicho..." I'd ask you to try to come to an agreement, I don't know if it'll be possible. But I think there are propositions, evaluation, and propositions which are founded on continual improvements, to examine the propositions which are proposed in the improvements of the future. Yes, I thought it was a job for a team to make commitments today to find out ways for consent, and it wasn't that way. And I think that's why we're just like we're at the last minute. And that shows the seriousness of the proposed team to the last moment of our lives. So I'd ask for five minutes to see if we can get to talk about this evaluation that appears in the EH Collectation's proposal, to talk about improvements, because it seems to me that we can always find it in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u75	All right. Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Well, for the time being, we'll just break up and follow... I'll call for the vote. The meeting stopped at one and twenty in the morning. One o'clock in the morning and thirty-seven o'clock began again. [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u76	We'll do it again. We're going to vote. The first vote will be the original text of a proposition like the popular Basque Group-Ciudadus. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters 7; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u77	So it's not accepted. Next up, the whole Podemos-Nozzer distribution of the Anixite team. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u78	Not accepted. And now, in the next place, the Euskal Socialists, the EH Collectors, and the Middle Amendment signed by the Eucators of Euz. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 62; the opposites are 1. Abstations, 12; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u79	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Jason Aguirre Gartanodia EH Collectors, in order to protect the Euscal media and promote the eucalyptic communication. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Aguirre, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative. Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u80	Thank you, Madam President. And good morning or good afternoon to all and everyone. but I think it is more proper to say, that this is the consequence of an injustice. Because it's an injustice to support the largest, the covida de, and the loss they've had, to maintain 5 million dollars, and to give the rest of the media, the local media, the digitals, the magazines, and some radios, as if they hadn't done any harm to the smiths. And in front of that, the logical question is what criteria these scholarships have been distributed. We will leave the institutional publicity for another day, but we may say, as in these aids, that the unbalanced are obvious. And not just that, any private company makes publicity for making a profit, and that's why when publicity is done, it measures how effective it is for that, as I said, it is. Is this where you're talking about? No. It doesn't measure the efficiency of this publicity, because, after all, the advertising institution is a sort of subsidy. But we'll leave that, as I said, for another day. So we asked Kultur and the head of the political department about the covid and the money he had given us. And Mr. Zupiria took us to the table of euscal media... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... Compliments of covid. And Mr. Zupiria took us to the table of eucalypment media, which is composed of locals, or locals, and enterprises. And so, as the chief physician described, in 2021 7,7 million euros were directed to finance the eucalyptic media, exactly 78 media. And so it is, and all right, that sector needs it, and they think it's a good help system. But this number, 7,7 million euros, is based on a check charge made in 2018, and it's up to 2022, but, as we all know, there's a pandemy involved. And if pandems have caused great media to lose publicity, then the rest of the media have nothing to say. Then, to face the damage caused by the covida, why do some media help and others not? The happy decree says that access or audience will be based on distribution of aids, if it could be quantum criteria, but where do you get the gate? Why is everything divided between a few and not all, in a proportional manner, of course? And, on the other hand, how is this access measured? It's based on one happy instrument: The CIES polls. And I want to emphasize the word incest because they're polls and not exams, that is, the CIES partners, that is, the great media that is to say, the polls that are ordered and paid to their size. And this is perverse. CIES can measure small eucalyptic media and, in measuring, how many and how are they measured? Therefore, we believe that we need our own system of measuring audiences, which will measure the audience of all media. And these measurements must be quantum, but they must also be quantum, because we must know how many people consume a communication, but we must also know whether those consumers are women or men, e.g. young or old. And, above all, we must also know what the social function of these media is, whether in this case they serve to strengthen our language. If we want a strong field of Euscala communication, we need our own tools, fitted to our reality. It's not going to be an easy job, so we agree with the Chief Zupiria, who says that since this universal landscape is difficult for a government to strengthen the sector of media, it's hard to make it clear that politics must be developed. All right, but let's start making small strides. It's not technically difficult, nor very expensive, but it's only a matter of vision and will. And if we continue to mention agreement, we are satisfied with the chief physician that we need a strong system of eucalyptic information and communication, on the one hand, because the right of the citizens to receive information is to be maintained, and, on the other hand, because the contents of eloquence are reserved in our case for the proceedings of diminished languages, I have spoken in words. Within this ecosystem, the Chief EIB shows the importance of EIB and the reference of reference to the opening of the eucalyptus. And he's right about that, too. But I think of one of these days, because it's rather paradigmatic... You may know, but, well, I'll tell you all the same... Well, to the point of the Olympic Joku of Beijing, a direct one in the Telenew sport, with the Chinese correspondent, with the Waters of Olathe. Besides being a good reporter, there's also a polylogy: He adapts himself to Chinese mandarin, speaks Russian, English, Spanish, Spanish, and, of course, to his mother's language. And on the direct, after a long, cold, complicated day, as he explained later, the word "dalalalla" did not come out in the direct, youthful style, and "Joder, Acómo se medal"? "He threw it away. The story spread very widely on social networks, and the eucalypists applauded it, for once it had been a mistake because he had emerged from the language of rhyme and thrown it into the eucalyptic telegram, in a Spanish chain, and in a very natural way. But if we take a step back and look, the situation is very absurd. It is absurd, on the one hand, that Sara Gandara, the Basque, the Basque, the entire Basque, with another of the Basques, directly in conversation with the Wavez Urki, and a great part of the audience which is looking at it, is able to understand either the whole Basque or at least its euphora. On the other hand, it's all about youth. And it's absurd: They were all consumed with eucalyptic and rhythmical offer. That doesn't reveal real, linguistic reality. It is like an act, which now began 40 years ago, with another reality, and which has continued to this day, although reality is now another. That's the paradigm that EIB perpetuates in the EIB communication camp. EITB, with this paradigma, cannot be keyed to renew a smaller language like ours. That's why it's so important to guard and protect the rest of the eucalyptic media too. But the way the world hasn't changed, it goes on like it hasn't changed. In this division of $5 million euros, the paradigm has been seen the same. They do not support the eucalyptic media, but the greater part of the money is directed to the great young men, and they do not require them to be more engaged with the eucalyptus. In this town, the greatest experts or anything that can be said about the media, (... As he explains very well, here in the Basque Country, it happens as much as in the world... or that which happens nowhere. And, look, that's where we're different. (... ), says he, that is, the only place in the world that people buy the press that is contrary to their ideology. And I should say more: he who buys the press written in a language which is not his diary. Paradoxes... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... and I should say more: and he who buys the press which is not written in his everyday language. Paradox, funk's policy about the media strengthens and perpetuates that paradox. This distribution of covid and co-operation of money is likewise another example, which has supplied with money the principal media of youth. Aren't they supposed to demand anything from them? Can't they ask for any special effort to publish more eucalyptic contents, for instance? Those millions would help, wouldn't they? It must not be forgotten that these media receive a million dollars a year for publication of something, I think one day, not much more. Can't we increase this exigency of the ratio of the minimum eucalyptus content? Or, at any rate, consider the presence of the euchasis when they are separated by the help of these communications? We believe that some of the media that have received subsidies must be more engaged with eucalyptus. The question is, if they have enough journalists to write about it, I don't know. The press at the Basque University of Basque Town has been more than 30 years in shape by euccanic journalists, at least they should be. But it's still with the same paradigm. The order to distribute covid's support by 5 million dollars is a dress made to the size of great media, and some of them are well dressed, and the other one has left bare fur. It's so obvious that it seems to be unbalanced, doesn't it? It's like what it looks like to think. That way we won't go on as a village, so we'll never get a solid field of eroscal communication. It takes balance. We do not deny that large fishes are necessary in this vast sea, but also small ones, and many fish. Our system now is not exactly what this town needs. Again, the head of department says, "Morcimation of nations to build a system of information, entertainment, and communication, and that we have a system of public and private agents, of equivalence and youth, of ideology, of various editorial traditions, of community, land, country, and place, and entertainment, which furnish information, either general or specialised information, or at random." I've received a word from the chief physician. He drove us a whole catalogue of screws from the smallest to the largest machine, without explaining what he's got to do with the others. He did not say that we have not our own domain of euscal communication, but that it is entirely dependent; it is a sphere in which private communications of the State prevail. It is therefore neither manifold nor plural. It is a digestive system of communications, and the eucalyptic is quite marginal. The public Euskal media are behind and they're not going to change the subject. And all this has to be added to globalization, technological revolution, change of consumption, and, in return, a pandemia. I don't know what else can happen to the eucalyptic media, it's really a terrible situation. So let's use the public money to build a system of independent communications. Let's make a fair and balanced distribution of that help. And for this purpose it is necessary that the audience should have a special system of measuring access, the media of the place, the small media of the media, and not the great media that can pay for an incest. And, on the other hand, we think that if you're getting some kind of special help, those people who get those help, they need to fill up a public function, they need to demand a social compensation. This is why we believe that the number of the contents which they publish in the Euscay ought to be considered in the distribution of their helps. That's what we're proposing today to step forward. Let us consider as a people, and do not perpetuate that ancient model of submission. We've got a clear idea what the way is. Others have left behind. There has been no way to make a deal with the government parties. In our proposal, we asked for the two points I mentioned in our initial proposal, and, well, we've been adapting ourselves to an agreement of our position, and we've been begging him to say, "Let him know how to give us those steps." And there's no way. You'll know why, you'll have to explain why. Thank you for that. We wait, then, to find out the way by which you are able to go, which may be done together, and which will only contribute good to the inhabitants of the Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mr. Podemos, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u82	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, everyone. Although today's transaction has moved a little further away from the initial inquiry that has focused on language policy, the fact is that there have been several forms of discrimination in the granting of aid. On the one hand, a communicative model focused on a few references has been favored, compared to the whole of the press that takes place in this country. In this way, only a few media outlets and news groups have benefited from these covid aids. And that is despite the fact that the communicative ecosystem of the Basque country is much wider. Less traditional media outlets have been left out, which I'm sure have had a bad time during this pandemic as well. And I'm not criticizing the need for these subsidies, because the pandemic has been a hard blow... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...also had a bad time during this pandemic. And I am not criticizing the need for these subsidies, because the pandemic has been a hard blow to everyone, and the advertising sector has suffered a lot. From InfoAdex, which is a consultant specializing in measuring advertising, they have calculated that the impact of the pandemic on advertising has been about a 30% drop, and this has a direct influence on the media, of course. But this decline on the part of the brands has been compensated by the Basque Government with these five million euros. Moreover, some of these media had previously received support from other departments such as economic development. What I want to criticize here is the way in which this aid has been granted. These subsidies have been given directly, without competitive competition and in a completely discretionary manner. Only those who have been decided by the Council, leaving out the smallest means, which have not been allowed to enter these aids. What is also quite bloody is that, while on the one hand they were granting these aids, on the other hand, these same media, or at least one of them, was echoing the very high number of users and visits that they were having in their digital media, looking for this also, of course, their increase in advertising, because it goes directly. The right to information is a necessary condition for citizens to exercise their political rights in any democracy. And if we favor the interests of a few media against others, weak favor we are doing this democracy. And in the face of other groups that have had to go out on the street to claim this aid, the majority media in this country have not had to show up, it has only been enough for them to meet with the counselor to obtain this aid for the losses caused by the publicity in the pandemic. It is a fact that the Basque Government has distributed EUR 5 million among a few news groups and the media, an increase of 50% over what is usually spent, more or less, on average, by the Basque Government on advertising in all the media. In order to guarantee the right to information and freedom of the press, the distribution of public funds, so that the media can continue to report, is a crucial issue, and criteria of balance and fairness of treatment must be met. In no case can there be any comparative aggravation between the small and the large media. We therefore believe that the fact that the hearing was the determining criterion for the allocation of funds seriously harms independent media, small and medium-sized enterprises and local print media. That is why we include in our amendment the need for the Basque Government in its plans to include all actors in the press and communication ecosystem, regardless of whether they are local or autonomous. All this leads us to see the need to create a new audience measurement system that is not only quantitative, as Mrs Agirre said before, but also qualitative. We believe that other variables, in addition to the audience, can be taken into account when granting public subsidies: the rigour, the reliability of the news, the defence of democratic values, the labor and professional rights of the environment, the measures that the media takes for the effective equality of men and women, the level of transparency of information of the corporation or the fulfilment of the obligations of ethics and professionals in the sector, among other variables. And indeed, along with these variables, it is essential to include euskera as a very important factor, euskera must be present in the media. To this end, news groups, media, platforms, channels should be encouraged to echo the importance of communicating in Basque as well. And if more financial support is needed for these means to move forward in their euskaldunisation, because there is no problem, for our part, we see it well. But this cannot be done as an imposition, but as an incentive to use it. These are some of the criteria that, in our view, should be present in the allocation of public money to the media. And, as I say, to ensure the fact of political plurality and linguistic plurality is also reflected in these media. And so avoid that only the voice of large communication groups that already have access also have many more resources than small or local print media and therefore start from a privileged position. In this way, I am going to enter a little into the publicity of the Basque Government. And a little outside of the Covid aids, there is also no justification for the Basque Government to systematically focus only on traditional and autonomous media when it comes to putting its advertising, leaving out the local media, which are the ones that make the news come to us every day. These media also want to be involved in advertising, at least they should also be consulted. And in this way we would have two benefits: on the one hand, we help the middle in their daily livelihood; and, on the other hand, we also have more information plurality. I made a small amendment about how... about the Basque government stopping advertising on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram or Tiktok. It's important, I think, that's why I'm going to bring him here on account, that he's not in the transaction. The Basque Government spends more or less EUR 13 million on media advertising. When this advertising is placed in large media, the influence of the Basque Government on society, or at least on trade - there is not the Trade Advisor - is very small, but when the Basque Government places its advertising on the large social platforms, its influence, with those 13 million euros is very large, and what it does is to increase the price of this advertising for the little ones. Well, well, in the form of advertising auctions these platforms use, what's worth 0.14 is worth 0.30, 0.40 or a euro per click. That is why I ask the Basque Government to reconsider its advertising policy on these large platforms, because what it is doing is working against small business. We also include the value of data transparency and ask the Basque Government, together with the advertising memory that should be referred to this Parliament, to make user segmentation data public as well... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... and we ask the Basque Government, together with the advertising memory to be sent to this Parliament, to also make public the user segmentation data it has on its different websites or on the EITB website itself, so that, in this way, all actors in this country can play with the same tools, with the same data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again, ladies and gentlemen. Let us not communicate with those who refer to the media as victims of the pandemic, victims of new technologies, weak companies to which administrations must support and subsidize with public money. And we think exactly the same for those who spread and publish in Spanish and for those who do so in any other language, as in this case it is in Basque. Apart from the public media, the others deserve the consideration of companies that compete in a free market and that, in addition, do so with products and with a concrete ideological bet, something that corrupts, of course, the eruption of public administrations and their obsession with financing the media covertly. For example, the self-employed, the thousands of entrepreneurs who have lost everything in the past two years, would like to have the aid that has actually reached the media, some of which are also very powerful. They would like, as with those who publish in Basque, to have subsidies included in the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community each year, more than six million euros to be distributed and with which to condition bets and contents. Hundreds of small entrepreneurs would already like to be able to opt for aid such as those with which this government feeds media whose main language is Spanish but includes publications in Basque. It is many millions of euros each year that the government in turn, in reality, this government, and the previous ones of identical profile invest in the purchase of adhesions and fidelitys. Because in a scenario as complicated as the media, where the advertising dispute and the hearing television reader is voracious, who bites the hand that gives him food? And this economic injection is the difference between life and death for the smaller media. It's a guarantee of no aggression. You understand me, don't you? Hence the approach of our amendment radically opposed to EH Bildu's motion, whose aims are neither informational diversity nor the free press nor the survival of media that guarantee plurality. That is why, since Vox, we advocate that this Parliament urge the Urkullu Cabinet to truly defend freedom of the press and plurality of information, avoiding any preferential treatment of any means of communication, to publish in the language it publishes. In this connection, the Basque Government should cease its efforts to budget lines of help to the media for reasons as pilgrim as the language it chooses to disseminate its messages and news, which benefits almost exclusively those who do so in Basque. And being aware that institutional advertising is an important source of revenue for any medium of communication, prioritize those with higher levels of audience and deployment in this region, not forgetting the important role that others of lesser scope can play in the dissemination of certain campaigns in specific geographical areas. An undertaking which survives, to a large extent, by the aid it receives from the Administration shall be ordered to avoid any encounter with that Administration. And the same goes for the media. Also and especially for those who use Basque as their main language and have benefited for years from a linguistic policy committed to financing the imposition of this language.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u85	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u86	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, my group will vote against the motion put to us by EH Bildu in relation to the media. Mrs Agirre has done a series of reflections, some interesting, but the motion says what she says and asks what she asks and we disagree. My group is in favour, as you all know, of the freedom of the private media to use the language that professionally suits their journalistic, commercial interests, better served for the purposes of information - in theory, to the people to whom they are directed - those purposes of information, entertainment, culture, sport or the dissemination of so many subjects, of what we all know, we have all seen, in Spanish or in Basque, freely by those private companies, of those media. It is clear that in the public media the situation is different and should move in balance in the response to the socio-linguistic reality. But, well, that's another topic. The private media carry out their information and commercial work according to many and various conditions: the demand for information; a very heterogeneous and very diverse audience; the media used in relation, because the press, radio, television, the Internet, the new technologies, so, well, there they are. And there is the fact that in the freedom in which laws allow you to act, you can be able to decide in which of the two official languages of our community you can and want to work, and you want to work, and it is for the target audience to work. And many have been harmed by this pandemic situation. Of course, many companies, including the media... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... many of those affected by this pandemic situation. Of course, many companies, including the media; media in Basque and Spanish. That is why there is no reason to establish a discriminatory system such as that which you intend to grant aid for the damage caused by the pandemic, nor for anything, as you want this motion; that is, there must be no discrimination in relation to this issue. That is, this is equality before the law, equality before the institutions, isn't it? Why? Because it is the listeners, it is the readers, it is the viewers, it is the netizens, it is the digital readers who choose the media that inform them. And if these citizens choose the medium in Spanish, and they are discriminated against in favour of the means because they are not less heard, read or seen in Basque, then those citizens, in addition to the means, will also be discriminated against. And that can't be done. Citizens cannot be discriminated against in this regard through what they choose in the media. And that is not fair because we are all equal before the law, and in that sense also the citizens who choose the media. It is the Basque Government that has decided to award the aid in the way it has; well, it is its responsibility. Well, we also regret that some digital media that have more follow-up than some written newspapers have been left out, but, with the proposal of EH Bildu, just like those digital media that have more follow-up than many newspapers, they would have been subjected to double discrimination, right?That is to say, the digital being, which has not entered the aid, and, moreover, the being in Basque, because one is not in Basque precisely. I believe that there the Basque Government could have fine-tuned a little more in relation to certain realities which are also being established, and which have been adversely affected by the situation. On the other hand, we understand that there are already audience meters, purchasing information products, or monitoring of certain media, right?; well, they already exist. We do not, of course, consider it necessary from our group that there should be anything more to the effect, and less with a public articulation, which would again be a director, again an interventionist in relation to some issues that do not seem to us at this time. There are instruments, there are means, and in that sense they must be used with balance, with responsibility, right? That is the fundamental element. We too have to say that we have tabled a total amendment, but we also have to say that you know it perfectly because you have had a favourable attitude to the budgets themselves by 2022: your group has negotiated with the government... You know perfectly well that in budgets there is a... in linguistic policy, in the Department of Culture, therefore, there is a very important item - very important item, millions of euros - for the media in Basque; many millions of euros. So, in that sense, there's support, too, isn't there? It's very clear, within Linguistic Policy, about the media in Basque, isn't it? And well, someone's been talking about the local media, too. I guess, well, with your concept, I understand you'll have a connection with local institutions, right? Well, many will be hanging, having agreements or having agreements with municipalities, with deputies on how to also articulate this information system to listeners, to local viewers, and I suppose they will be able to benefit from that. In any event, we also ask the Government to consider whether there has been discrimination in this regard. In any case, my group has tabled an amendment in its entirety on the basis of the reasons I told you. That is to say, to declare that the Basque Parliament defends the freedom of the media in this country in relation to the production and expression of information in Spanish and Basque, to their freedom, and after this freedom, therefore, that they are treated on equal terms in their relations with public administrations. All equal before the law, in the objective and law-of-hearing conditions, etc., which must be studied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u87	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u88	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good at noon. I think, in this discussion of today, several planes get confused. It would therefore be proper to distinguish these different degrees. In the first place, it is the theme of euphoria. I think that at this point, at least the majority of the groups have completely agreed with him. The media that transmits content are of most importance in our decosystem. For instance, I have more than once remarked the importance which EIB and other media of EIB and others have in the last 30 years been able to strengthen the eucalyptus. Our way of speaking, so that we can understand each other, especially in the formal area, has been adapted and adapted for the great work of professional communications in the past few decades. But on this subject there are some facts which do not appear in motion, though they have been discussed in the discussion. It is not said, for instance, that these media have their own institutionalized forum, as the chief physician advanced in his answer to the interpelation. It's not said; you mention today that he'd agreed to a formula of help which involves the Euskal RailkM and the Three Blue Foru in 2021 that he put 7.750.214 to help and encourage the eucaural media on the table. But there's another second level. I'm talking about the state of the communication sector, Mr. Aguirre. I'm completely satisfied with my team when you say we need a strong space of Eukadin communication with you. Nay, not only Euskikak. Any democracy permanent in time and firm in its principles... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... When you say that we need a strong one, and still more, not only in the Euskakia. If any democracy desires to maintain time, and to maintain its principles, it must require a strong space of communication, to be consistent, to be youthful, to be in every language. Indeed, I said, my group fully agrees with you when you tell us that Euskadi requires a solid communication space. Moreover, not only Euskadi; I would dare to say that any democracy that pretends to be sustainable in time and firm in its principles needs a strong and consolidated communication space, whether in Basque, in Spanish or in any language. And the bad news for everyone is that it's been a long time since that, that the media network of all kinds and in either of our two languages is going through very serious problems. Problems that deepen their roots in changing the habits of consumers of information and the centrifugation of advertising investments towards the different environments of the Internet. Not to mention the pressure of certain political and economic interests to try to erode a system in which they feel nothing comfortable. Like I said, it's a big problem. It's a serious, global problem. And Euskadin, of course, is not a stranger to us. It's not necessary to remind them that journalists are losing their stability in employment every day. In fact, Covida's work is going on long before we get to live. We have seen the closing of the Euscala media or the reduction of eroscal Escals from the Spanish media. It has been decided to recentrate and to narrow the planillas. And that, obviously, has been a direct influence on the professionals of communication. Unfortunately, this process is a direct method of diminishing for the evil of our profession and the democratic quality of our people. And unfortunately that's what we're still doing now. Therefore, I do not consider it fair to draw a panorama of means full of strength, great sharks you said in your inquiry, solvents and powerful, in front of others who live in a constant difficulty. Unfortunately, difficulties are widespread. Following the metaphor that you yourself posed to us during the interpellation, here the problem does not go to large fish that sometimes eat small; unfortunately, the problem is of polluted, damaged oceans, where all marine fauna dives for survival. Eta mundu errealean bezala, bertan daviden espizieen biziraupena arriskuan jartzen duen itsoso kutsatua albiste txarra da, bear berri txarra; komunikabide free professional ageik gabe, demokrazia, lehen esan dudan bezala, ahuldu Egypt hut. It is bad news, very bad news, because without free and professional media democracy, as I said, is resentful. In such a serious situation for the media, the urgency must be to support the maintenance of a supply of proximity information, guaranteeing access to it in any of our languages. Let us not forget that this offer is the one that ensures that today there are information professionals following this debate, echoing our interventions, in order to inform citizens from their firm commitment to truth and democracy. I'm done. Let us not confuse the different plans of the debate. One thing is the support of the media in Basque as a necessary tool, as an engine that feeds and enriches our language; and another very different is the crisis of all the media as a result of challenges - the advisor defined us up to 11 in his response to the inquiry - challenges that are being faced as a result of the profound social, political, economic and cultural changes that we are experiencing globally. I'd like to make one last warning. And above that, it has become clear, I believe, after some of the interventions. There will be those who intend to confuse us with the different plans, who will do so in order to try to end the Basque era and to energize the fabric of free and independent media, aware that by doing so they are energizing the two fundamental pillars of democracy: plurality and freedom of the press, which bothers them so much. Let's not follow the game. Let's follow ours. It's a lot more than what comes near us. Let us continue to stake the true information, the free, the concrete, the nearness and the guarantee of the two languages we speak of in this country. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. I think it was December 2018, but we still had high budgets. He was negotiating with my accounts for the last cover. All the newspapers told us, for the first time, the arrangement could be possible, even if it had been in the way somewhere in the course. These budgets for 2019 contained an important development in the Cultural and Basque Department: to fix and stabilize the finances of the eucalyptic media. The issues went on without cover from the gatherings, so that theme took off its refusal. At that time I was a member of the Basque Council in the name of our party, and as we waited for a meeting called, I was sitting beside me a well-known representative of eucalyptic media which I had begun to express without telling me how pleased Mr. Zpiria was to work with the department of the head, described the situation with pretty words: generosity, commitment, future sense, etc. I replied that our people, as far as the institutions and the field of the eucalyptics, are willing to work out long-breathed policies. I was thinking of this incident while I watched and listened to the speech of the interpenetration that caused this motion. I was wondering what the problem was, where the stability of money would be changed, whether a table set for the sector and whether a table had been turned into a covida because of its covida, or whether the pressure in some area would be to be included, or that the pandemia would be in this situation with the problems of − hers, but in a permanent sector in which there is −.................................................................................. [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... so that he might want to put pressure into some field, or in this pandemia with the problems of −bes, but in a stable sector,−, he had been in this house on Monday, as the wardens call him, Protagonism, who say no to EH. As I tried to examine the subject, I confirmed my suspicions, and I found that things were still in the same way, and that Mrs. Aguirre was not involved in the description of the situation. As the Euge Arrigs of our teammate recently said in an article, especially those who listen and do not know the subject, reflect the surrounding confusions, the uneasiness, or, in his case, the confusion of events. Here, there are two standard subsidies and another that's unusual. The usual two. One: 7.750.214 euros to finance the eucalyptic media, from which is a direct friendship given by 6,1 million Euskelek, and the rest of the $1.6 million in full support. In addition, in order to promote the presence of the eucalyptus, the media which are chiefly published by the young man, have a annual appeal, a million dollars. And next, there is an unusual one: A direct 5 million euros scholarship to the written press and radio sector, because of the economic influence of COVID-19 pandemia. And we could say with this, you know, "Euskong" and, in general, that institutions are making a tremendous effort. So 5 million and zero, just like you said, you said today − and today in this tribe showing us a graphic on the day of the − the interpelration, no, Mrs. Aguirre. The Euskal media have their way, and the economic influence of COVID-19 is a different kind of scholarship. Most people who weren't benefited by this unusual scholarship haven't got a financial system set up with fun. They don't work with a dinner table that's just fun and stuff, trouble, worries to the desktop, debate and decide, including the covidas, of course. These direct contributions are located in the economic earthquake caused by COVID-19, where even the extended sector has been damaged. Pressed down the papers' sales, one after another, and on radios down advertising. In a society, as remarked by the institutions of the European Union, there is an indispensable tool for disinformation and democratic values, including the diary of Gara, which has received 30,000 dollars. Will Gara apply the thesis you're defending here for 300,000 dollars? I have no doubt about the commitment to Gara, no doubt; but how much more will Gara offer us for those 30,000 dollars? Or is he using them for anything else? Therefore, though there may be many opportunities of making a great number of interests and pressures, let us put things in its place, without confounding the places. It may be said that the criterion of the access of this extraordinary income of the economic effects of COVID-19 is not appropriate, because we have no special means of measuring audits. And first, theoretically, to have a system of its own is always interesting in everything, because any system of its own presupposes a greater conformity to reality. But the want of this particular system does not necessarily destroy the conformity of the criterion around the access used in these subsidies. Besides, the subject of the central system of judgment is to be considered at the table of works created for the eucaural media. Let's let him get back to work. Here everyone tells us how good it is and how important it is to come up from below, from the sector, from the agents. But if, then, something rises out of control in this descent from below, on the one hand, that is to say, in the matter we now have in hand, we try to press them from the legislature to become champions of the theme, and again, small protagonism. And I'm telling you this to the thread of the sentences we've been involved in not getting to the deal. I won't deny that when you said that you didn't have the reason for the half-way in which we made it, you shouldn't refute me, just as you proposed to me, the study of a system of its own-that is to say, that there is no table of works made for eucaury extensions. There's another point I wanted to talk about. In fact, I think I've treated or answered the principal subjects which first introduced and afterwards formed the motion. In the original initiative, i.e., in the motive, I'd like to refer to what wasn't shown and what we deserved to correct. When we use the articles of the Euscarese, as some others have said, we ought to have the rights of the fundamental language which the citizens have always confessed to us in the Frontispition. And it must be remembered that the normalization of Euscara in 1982 is a confession of essential language rights, including 5.2c. He says, "The people of the city of Euscal are acknowledged to have these fundamental rights." And in the c, it says: "the right to receive performances from journals and radios, televises, and other media." And that's why it's important and necessary to protect the eucalyptic extensions we're talking about today, because they're tools that are acknowledged in the 52c section of the Basque Normalization of the law. After all, what we ought never to forget about a right, or, according to the same article, because so many essential languages are speaking of rights. And this ought to be useful to us for the eucaural media, and for all the subjects we make motion and dispute about the sphere of the eucalyptus. The people are founded on all the articles of Euskara, and the rest ought to be adapted to it. On the subject of the latter, I would not like to end without making a reference to any of the other amendments recorded, in particular that of the Group of the European People's Party. You will see, Mr Barrio, that the Basque Parliament declares that all the media in the Basque Country will be treated on an equal footing in its relationship with public administrations. And I believe that when we come to this point we should define the term equality, because of course there is equality before the law. Do you have any doubt that there is equality before the law? We have..., what happens is that on the issue of equality there is formal equality and real equality... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... Do you have any doubt that there is equality before the law? We have... What happens is that there is formal equality and real equality on the issue of equality. A formal equality that makes table rasa with everything, and a real equality that treats equals and different to the different. And in this area, the media in Basque are different, because, in addition to guaranteeing the right to plural information that citizens have, it is those that materialise the right we have recognized in the Basque Autonomous Community to access that information in Basque as a basic linguistic right, based on the recent article I mentioned in the Basque part. And that is the aspect that some have forgotten, because no one has put it in their initiatives or in their amendments, except us. And others seem to prefer not to remember. And on the other hand, they are the reason why the media in Basque have their own way, also when it comes to funding in view of the linguistic and communicative situation we enjoy in this country. And I think it would be best, when it comes to judging things, to differentiate the various nuances that things have and not try to put everything in a cocktail pot, not try to put everything in a cocktail pot and confuse things. The media in Castilian and Basque have had access to the extra aid, to this extra aid on a covid basis, not on the basis of whether they were in Basque or Spanish, but on the basis of other conditions under which everyone has agreed, and I have no doubt, on equal terms, Mr Barrio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u91	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing the answers, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Alonso, I think you said the code of the sentence, right? : it is more than that which brings us nearer to us; it is so. And there will be few subjects in this legislature that can achieve more conformity than culture and support. And yet we have not made an agreement. We're good. I will not say this to you, but we have examined the Cultural Department, and we may say that it is the hardest of all departments: the most fluid, with the least flexibility. There's no way he could be committed in such matters... I do not know, in those matters which will appear to us. Today, we may safely say that the Cultural Department does not move a coma from their positions. Few waists, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Zupiria, you don't show much waist. And, Mr. Faraway, I must tell you the same thing: What you taught little waists to negotiate this mutation. Her legs are light, yes, I must confess, her legs are light, but her hips are not. What we proposed today was to examine certain measures. On the one hand, we didn't ask or doubt... that was not the question of the protection of its system for the eucalyptic media. He does not require a step back from those distributions which have been made in so unjust and unequal a manner. What we alone have proposed, and have brought into dispute, was a proposition to give us steps, that there should no more be an injustice of this kind; and, on the other hand, to take notice of the presence of the support in those media which receive subserviences. And in order to test that, in our initial proposition, we asked you to do that, and in order to make an arrangement with you, we adjusted our position, and only asked you to take a step back and examine it. And yet no. Well, you'll tell us how flexible that is, and also with this subject that makes so much harmony. So, as I said, there are few waists here. With this attitude we can hardly advance, to strengthen and maintain the proper sphere of euscal communication which requires all our strength, and to remain as a people. It's not like that, we can't move on. We see, even at present, that there are enemies. And you, standing there in your own place, stretched out our hand for the agreement, and the answer to you was no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Angulo mustn't speak. Misses, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u94	Well, I think the first thing we should ask all of us here in this House is what kind of communication and media we want. I believe that we agree that what we want is true and impartial communication. I think that's the fundamental thing. But this is difficult to digest with this paternalism of certain political parties with the media, as if they were weak companies that need to be covered and protected by all those who make the laws and decide what aid and subsidies and to whom they are given. I believe that what we have seen today behind these defences, in fact, is the defence of every political formation of its related media. I think that's what's been portrayed. I am curious that what is not being debated today is neither freedom of the press nor informational impartiality, nor the free exercise of the journalistic profession, nor the right of citizens to truthful and conflicting information. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is really important. Political parties that sell themselves as democratic, as defenders of freedom of expression, equality and justice are advocating in this House for the control of the media with money and subsidies. And, besides, they do it by hiding it behind a smokescreen that is the euskera's defense. I think what we should think about is really betting on freedom of the press, for eradicating any conditioning that can... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... of smoke that is the defense of the Basque. I believe that what we should be thinking about is really betting on freedom of the press, for eradicating any conditioning that might have an impact on giving biased information. And I'm gonna end up saying that what we have to do is let the journalists work. Let them do their job, and not impose chains that silence them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u95	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Popular-Ciudad Group, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u96	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President; with your permission, from the seat. Mr Urrutia mentioned our second part of the amendment in its entirety, where we stated that all the media in the Basque Country will be treated on an equal footing in their relations with public administrations. Well, it's normal, isn't it? I mean, I think it's logical; it's law enforcement, right? The law is the one that marks it, and we don't want to be discriminated against. But the law marks, and we assume it. I did not vote in favour of the budgets; I voted against it, but the law marks a number of political positions in favour of the media in Basque. Well, it's the law. But, in everything else, all we are being asked is the scope, the temptation of discrimination, the strategy of discrimination. What is the law, is the law, and we have to comply with it: conditions, hearings, if they have to be helped, they have to enter those keys, and also, that they have to be all, that we think the aids have been cut in relation to some media, but it is the law that marks it. And, in that sense, I believe that in our total amendment it is very clear in relation, first, to the freedom of the media by the Basque and the Spanish, I have already explained it before, and then, the conditions of equality before the law. And, just to finish, Mrs Agirre, you speak of the Basque media to say the media in Basque. No, no. The Basque media are all in Basque and Spanish. And that's very clear, because it's a perverse language in relation to what it is, and the reality is that the media are: it's Berria, it's El Correo... These are the media; there are many more. That's pretty clear, isn't it? But you try to bring the sardine to your sardine in relation to the usual, Basque media like the Basque media in Basque. No, it's all Euskera and Castilian. And that is why we must take advantage of this moment to pay tribute to so many Basque journalists who, working in Spanish, have given their lives for this country, for freedom of expression, for working in public media, in private, constitutional media, or in public media some of them in relation to freedoms, right? I mean, in that sense, that tribute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u97	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u98	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. I did not intend to intervene in the reply, but Mr Angulo, of Podemos, has said some questions before, which I resist not answering. And this issue of advertising is true that Mrs Agirre has also said that it is possibly another debate, but I would not like to let it go, right?, because we often talk about the limitation of advertising. Let us see what we mean by advertising and what is the real role of the publicising campaigns carried out by the Basque Government. Because if we really believe - and I believe so - that the campaigns have to do with the dissemination of information, the awareness of citizens, I believe that it is the Basque Government's duty to put them on those channels of dissemination that reach more citizens. Look, I had the great honour of being part of (...) Government in the previous legislature as Director General of Osalan. The campaigns we carried out, if we had taken away those media you spoke of, those platforms, would have been reduced by 70% on arrival at the citizenry. This message of awareness, which had so much to do with safety at work, with the health of the working population, would have been undermined. That would really have been effective. I believe that we must give this issue a deep debate, and not forget the meaning of what an advertising campaign is, and it is to reach out to the citizenry. And it is true that the debate may have its dilemmas, but, of course, I believe that the channel that the Basque Government has to look for to arrive with that information, that dissemination, that awareness in the different campaigns must be those tools that reach the greatest number of citizens. That, of course, I do not think it is possible, under any circumstances, to remain in question in this debate, because if not, we would not be talking about advertising, we would be talking about other issues, and if you want then we will discuss it on another occasion. But, of course, let us not confuse one issue with the other: the purpose of advertising is to disseminate, inform and raise awareness of citizens, not any other issue. And, Mr Aguirre, indeed, I would like to recapitulate quickly in my speech, because I believe that these are two issues on which we absolutely agree. On the one hand, push and support the euskera. Of course, no doubt; my group has been doing this for years and years and years, and you know it, and so we have reached consensus. For that there are the tools that there are and for that there is a linguistic policy and for that we have different tools in our hands. Support the media. I believe that this is a debate that does not even make sense in a democratically sound parliament. Of course, the media must be supported, because they are a fundamental pillar of our democracy. Some people don't feel comfortable, and they've shown it today, haven't they? Possibly, they prefer to continue feeding lies and misinformation on farms (beginning?) on Twitter and things in the style that this humble parliamentarian is already absolutely unaware of. So, let's spread that. Where was the meeting? For, possibly, issues that have to do with methodology, how to measure and other issues that have, say, another debate and another different issue. But I would like to stress, because you already know that I am optimistic in nature, to underline what I believe has united and unite the vast majority of the groups in this Parliament. Support for the Basque, of course; and support for the media, of course. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u99	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, far away, your word is yours... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be short. Mr. Barrio, I'll start with you. Look, we can disagree, and a lot; we can get into the context of parliamentary splendour, but I do not think that even the system that exists, not even the initiative that we are debating today, poses any strategy of discrimination. No, no, I deny you the greatest absolutely, you do to me the gestures that you make to me. The discrimination strategy does not exist. And I'm going back to this thing that I've put you talking about equality; formal and real equality. Real equality is equal treatment for equals and different. And, in this sense, the media in Basque fulfil this dual function of providing the right to information and the right to information in Basque, which in this autonomous community we have recognized as a basic linguistic right. Mrs. Aguirre, I don't have the waist. There... That phrase, that phrase, has what the fool used to say to the raven, doesn't it? The fool called the raven, not physical, political, political. I know I can win you in physical war, just look at you. [[Barres]] And I'd say I'd beat you in politics too. But here it is important that we should not confound the nature of all media, because it is not the same; and a little out of what I have said to Mr. Barri. Here, in the end, there are some eucalyptic media that have been introduced into the covida's subsidies and have been able to enter. And it seems to me that since it was an interpenetration, everything has been a little confused, and I have had it to-day, especially today, at your first lecture, for a moment, I did not know what you wanted to talk about; for I thought that you wanted to speak also of EIB. After all, you said, in your first speech, you said he had money for the media of youth, and you've been talking about big fish and small. And here came a reflection, I believe, from all parts, and from comparisons, if we seek a collision between eucalypancy and youth in some ways, that we shall not go well; for the little one has never eaten much, but great and small. But there, on a farm in Markina, our ancestors have left us, that they have also small opportunities of finding their way and their place, and they also gave us formulas, and this formula was intended and knowledge. And I think that we challenge, especially in the area of the eucaïe, and in the area of the eucaural media, by the hand of the eleven points mentioned by the chief physician in the first speech of the interpelation; and we must here guess, if we wish to gain the future. And besides, we must do this in a way: in shared form. And the distant Andreas, as the eucharists said, without any protagonism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. End of discussion, we'll go to the vote. We're gonna vote for EH Collect and together Podemos-Nozzer distribution corrections that have been signed by the Animal Teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u102	So it's not accepted. We're going to vote for the total misto group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 75; the supporters 1, the opponents 68; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u103	Not accepted. The full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadnos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 6; the opponents are 62; abscessions, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u104	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the total correction presented by the Euccaner. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 75; the 10th, 41; the contrary, 6; Abscesations, 28; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u105	Beraz,... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 75; the 10th, 41; the contrary, 6; Abscesations, 28; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u106	So it's accepted. I interrupt the whole meeting till four-fifteen. The meeting stopped at two o'clock in the afternoon and at fifty-two.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u107	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. The sixth point in the theme list: "Mertion, Pazis Gartea Ortega EH of the DUGs, represented in great public works, and exact from the works of the Rue d'AHT and Donostia to promote a decent employment. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Garcia has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u108	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ... and we introduced to the chairman of the U.S. Department of Emp., a high-speed train and an interpenetration on how to promote a decent job in the works of Donstrosty. We had just announced the agreement with the Spanish Government in order to get most of the jobs of the high-speed train over by Eusk. The entrance to Gasthex and Bilbo will take care of these works by commission from the Basque Institutions. And the same afternoon yesterday, the Gastés, the Esscal institutions signed the protocols which the Spanish Government has made in writing. In accordance with information, some works will soon be released. And that was one of the main reasons for our interaction. The signature of yesterday's protocols contributes more of today's experience and need to the motion we're discussing today. We wanted to know, and we want to know if the government has taken care of the works of the high-speed train, when yesterday, when the protocols were signed, it means to end the work with the pre-estate work that is developing, and to take care of it. In this translation, the few conditions of labour and the watering of labour, which are developing in these public works, have been published by the unions over and over again. That's why, as we said in that intermediary, and even in the motion today... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... the dives, as the unions have insisted on it. So, as we said in this interpelation, we won't talk about the waste of money, or the incest of the environmental environment of these two great works. We wish to speak of the rights of the people who work for the day, and the influence of their conditions of life; and above all, we wish to speak of the commitment which M.M. is to ensure a worthy and exclusive employment, as well as of the other great public works which are to be developed in those public works in the future. First, in our motion, at the first point, we propose to express that the wager for worthy employment and inclutive is incompatible with those conditions of work which are developing high speeds and the works of the Donostian subway, and we also propose the need of firm engagement to maintain worthy conditions of work. The chief physician said that the Government does not look at what is going on in those works. And if this be so, if he look at what is going on in public works, and if the union hears them, it is plain what we say on this point. Even if I don't want to confess to you, as the corrections you put in, it's in the right to mention these works. It is not difficult to know what abuses are in the works of a high-speed train, as is said in the Hole of the water. And he goes on: "In this investigation we have succeeded in entering into the work, and by the mouth of the workmen to know what their condition is, how they live, what they really charge, and how many hours they have to enter." By this fact, therefore, and knowing that the exceptions and isolated cases which occur in these public works are not, the explanation of the Public Administration is necessary, in order that the commitment to the employment of a special quality may be applied to exact measures. Public administration must have a pattern at the creation of a quality job. It must be consistent with the work strategy, and cannot continue to pay public works based on public jobs and other water-level works. As the chief physician said, one must take advantage that the public work should be a terrible opportunity for employment. Of course, quality as the chief physician added. But in reply to the chief physician, we did not fail to confess the reality, and suggest exact measures: to pass from words to action. And today, from the corrections introduced by the political teams of the government, we do not see much courage to pass from words to actions. The public administration must be a driving force and an example in the creation and promotion of quality employment. And today, in the working conditions in which public work is carried out, paid with public money, it is supported in precarious employment and in the denial of basic labour rights, including the right to safety and health at work. Therefore, a commitment consistent with the commitment to inclusive and quality employment, which is reflected in this government's employment strategy, must be translated into effective measures. Quality employment cannot only be a holder or a desire of the Government; it is necessary to commit to measures that will give effect to the commitment made. And this is what we put forward in this motion, Euskal Herria Bildu, with the three measures we propose. Number one. That the price should not be the only decisive element for the allocation in the limits of the great public art, to prevent the representation of the offers which commit the requirements of the work. In order to do this, the companies will require a guarantee of high-quality inclusive employments and a preventive prevention of labor risks, and a set of social and laboral clauses. The consequences of public works awarded to the best bidder with low prices are already being seen: precarious working conditions and endless subcontracting chains, where the main objective is nothing but to lower labour costs. Subcontracting chains where responsibilities and compliance with labour and safety rights are being diluted. But besides that, there are other effects for the hundred of our construction company, and the corporations who want to do things right. As it explains in the hole in the book called − again, they turn to subcontradiction. The outside companies do their jobs a lot cheaper, so they can exhibit very low budgets in public competitions. With this pressure, many small and average companies who have always worked in construction, usually familiar, and rooted in villages, have had to close the doors without a chance to compete. And this is a direct connection to other ends taken by the employment strategy: to encourage and develop companies that are rooted in the environment, and to place them in the centre of the person. But these targets are on paper, but they don't reflect, considering the political policies of the government. However, in addition to requiring and prioritizing the enforcement of labour rights and preventive measures for occupational safety and health through the inclusion of social and labour clauses, it is necessary to follow up to ensure that they are complied with; they do not remain only in the formal drafting of tender documents. That they don't, as is usually said, remain on wet paper. Today, just by ensuring that working conditions are met, that the collective agreement and measures to prevent labour risks are implemented, would be a major step forward in the working conditions of people working in public works. For this reason, the second measure we propose is the creation of a monitoring table for public works, attended by trade union representatives, companies and administrations, to ensure the fulfilment of decent working conditions and guarantee the... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... participated by trade union representatives, companies and administrations, to ensure the fulfilment of decent working conditions and to ensure the prevention of occupational risks of workers. In the control of what happens in public works, it is necessary to listen more to the unions, to all the unions, who know on the ground what happens. That is why, together with the public administration and the contracting companies, trade unions must participate and be active agents in this task. The counselor said, in the answer to our question, that the channel through which complaints have to be channelled and who has to be the tool is the Labour Inspectorate because it is so marked by law. And this being so, it must also be added that the control of compliance with working conditions cannot be left or run alone at the expense and risk of the people who work in these works. The responsibility to put an end to the precarious nature of employment, which is structural in nature, above all, in construction, cannot be shifted to those who are trapped in it. It is necessary to break with the vicious circle that generates job insecurity, which in turn becomes the mechanism for its maintenance, so that no one changes, through vulnerable staffs, which prevents such complaints in many cases from being carried out. Subcontracting in the public sector cannot be an instrument through which the public administration disagrees with the working conditions under which it lends itself as if it had no responsibility. Therefore, the need to set up this monitoring table for public works, which, together with the Labour Inspectorate, organizes regular visits to the works. In the amendments tabled by the groups of the Government to our proposal, it is opposed, and it is said in text, "to maintain the commissions of great works, having become an appropriate and effective framework for better application of the prevention of occupational risks". These public works commissions were created 11 years ago. And I have to ask: What have you done during these years? What results can the Government present in saying that they are functioning effectively? What have they done in the face of union complaints in a work such as the high-speed train, where there are ten people who have died from accidents at work in these works? What measures have they taken? What decisions have they made to prevent what happened in the works of the high-speed train from being repeated, as is happening, in the works of the subway of Donostia? I believe that proposing these committees as effective instruments clashes with the harsh reality that the trade unions are denouncing. Or, as I told the counselor, do you believe that all trade unions lie when they describe the situation of labour exploitation, non-compliance with the agreement or lack of occupational health and safety measures? Seeing the situation of the public work today, 11 years later, there are few reasons to claim its effectiveness and many to be, at least, self-critical and analyze why these commissions of great works have little results to present. Not doing so, being content to remain the same, which is what is proposed in the amendments, only shows that there is no will to put an end to job insecurity, to corporate impunity in public works. If you intend to continue doing the same, why do you think that in the new phase of the works of the TAV the situation will be different? And the third measure we propose is to secure technical resources and human resources necessary to work inspection. We are far from the ratios of the inspectors recommended by the International Organization of Job; and therefore it is necessary that this ratio should be strengthened and needed by human resources and technical resources. Newly, as the unions that participate in the Lablager have said: There's but little use in the strategic plans without resources. We must, therefore, speak of the necessity of strengthening the inspectorship which is referred to in the strategic designs of this government; we must speak of the ratios; we shall pass through the words in this matter too. And these are the measures which we propose from the United States of the Basque Country to prevent the prepotence of great public works. I'd like to thank Podemos-Nodez Jon Hernandezzi, for his honesty and contributions to the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs. Larre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u110	Thank you. We have come to talk about the social clauses and the Labour Inspectorate, but, as you should know, nothing has to do with one thing with the other, but it has a lot to do with it at the same time. Look, I'm gonna start talking about intern Miraconcha-Easo. We have talked many times here about this great infrastructure. But what's coming to us today... What we have to talk about is the abusive working days of the workers, the exaggerated rhythms of work, the non-application of the norms of occupational and road safety and prevention in the execution of this public work. Therefore, I have to admit that we are faced with a misconception that only shows the mismanagement of this work. If we add that in June 2020 the Social Room of the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country found a violation of the fundamental rights to the life and physical integrity of the operators carrying out the transport and movement of land of the works of the subway of Donostia systematically failing to comply with the maximum authorized weight of the trucks, because we can continue to give him the reason, but the Inspection has worked in this case. If we talk about the works of the TAV, you have already mentioned that there have been numerous accidents, some with lethal consequences - this is the last thing we want -. That is why I can tell you that we are... and we are clear that we are in favour of the inclusion of social clauses, as the law says, in the forms of public contracts. And we also believe that to avoid such events, to avoid accidents as much as possible, it is mandatory to have inspections that review the working conditions of all workers, all conditions, even those that have to do with the prevention of accidents. [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] ...obligation to have inspections that review the working conditions of all workers, all the conditions, even those that have to do with the prevention of occupational risks, which are the ones that affect us in this matter. From the public point of view, therefore, we have an obligation to prevent and ensure the safety and health of workers. And that is what, for example, is not happening in San Sebastián with the works of the subway, and so the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country has said. Now, I will focus on the first point of the motion that talks about the inclusion of social clauses. And, look, I will tell you that in 2014 the European Union already adopted a directive on public procurement which already forced social, environmental, innovation and development considerations to be introduced into public procurement, in order to calculate the best relationship, quality and price in each procurement file. It also added new calculations, new valuation criteria, including social clauses, and the calculation of the cost of the life cycle, which correct the previous criterion of the lowest price or most advantageous offer. This directive was incorporated into the Spanish legal system in Law 9/2017 of 8 November of public sector contracts. And, as we say, this law - which most of its articulation comes into force in March 2018 - has come to order, clarify and, in some way, to overcome the variety of types of social, labour, environmental, ethical, gender and linguistic clauses that numerous municipalities, parliaments and other territorial-based administrations had included in their various recruitment regulations and instructions. It is for the contracting authority to apply such social clauses as may be appropriate for the end of the contract in question. With regard to social clauses, we only have to apply the law. Explaining already the subject of the introduction of social clauses, and which is already a matter of compulsory application in public contracts, gives me the feeling, as with many other times, that you intend to wear a medal, and that every time you come here to Parliament. It's not a receipt to show that they do things when they're already done. I said at the beginning of my speech that the work of the mole has its light. That is why inspection is necessary to ensure compliance with the law. And labour rights, working hours, workers' safety and security are issues that must be monitored in order to preserve the law that protects workers in the field of risk prevention and all those that apply to workers. That is why, in the second point of my amendment to your motion, it contains the implementation of human and technical means for the Labour Inspectorate to carry out as many inspections as necessary to check whether the workers' labour rights are being complied with. This requires an increase in inspections. And you speak only of great works, but you have at the point (...) only those two great works, because historically, politically you are against the realization of those works, the high speed and the intern of Donostia. What about the inspection of the other public contracts in which workers operate? Don't you have to emphasize them? Don't they deserve inspection? It is that I believe that when you focus only on the works that you do not care about or that you do not agree so politically on the realization of those works, because, in the end, you really take away the weight of the need for a good inspection for the rights of workers, the prevention of risks is actually being fulfilled. I think it would have to be a broad aspect. If we have to talk about increased inspection, inspections, it has to be all sectors, including the major works that are being auctioned from this administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u112	Yes, good afternoon. This is not my first time discussing this issue of working conditions in large works. It is true that on the other occasion, in which it was also the EH Bildu group, in which it brought such an initiative, it was focused, if I remember correctly, exclusively on the works of the TAV, and, on this occasion, they also add the works of the Metro of Donostialdea. The last time, which I think was in 2018, it has been four years, and, of course, it seems that the problems of poor working conditions in these works have not been solved, because this is what we have been hearing recently from different unions. Works that we have not forgotten, as has already been said, are paid with public money, which, of course, in our opinion, makes, in some way, doubly bloody that there continue to be unfortunate realities that the unions have denounced and to which we have been able to listen even in this Parliament. And it is also important to address this issue in relation to possible future works which, as has also been mentioned here, are being or will be tendered in the near future. And, of course, for our group, this is a matter of major concern: the working conditions of the workers; in this case, in the area in which we are proposed to debate. Because it is true, and it must be noted that these works, in particular that of the TAV, beyond the opinions that each group may have on the TAV itself, since they have already developed for more than a decade, have been characterized by a great precariousness of work that has come on many occasions since to absolutely unacceptable. I believe that this statement is now unquestionable: working hours that have long exceeded or exceeded what has been allowed in labour regulations, collective agreements, the pace of brutal work, pressure on workers, motivated by the need for deadlines on the part of both contractors and subcontractors. In addition, wages have been shown to be below the corresponding level, and labour rights such as the enjoyment of holidays, days, rest periods, and even the right to liberty have been consistently violated... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... and there have been constant violations of labour rights such as the enjoyment of holidays, days, rest periods and even the right to freedom of association. There have been constant practices of fraud in hiring and non-compliance with social security obligations, as well as in compensation for dismissal or termination of contracts. Not to mention also the obligation to perform tasks not corresponding to the category or without the timely information; which, unfortunately, has on some occasion cost some life in any of these works, in that of the TAV also, specifically. All these violations of labour rights, along with already precarious working conditions and, moreover, harsh - for the sector we are talking about - have resulted in a high level of occupational disaster and a clear high degree of insecurity and lack of occupational health. Accidents at work, particularly serious accidents at work and the most serious ones resulting in death, have in some cases been shown to have occurred after a serious lack of safety and health has been investigated in some of these works in these years. We are talking about works that, as we have said, cost the public coffers billions of euros, but also generate large private contractors. For this reason, it seems especially unacceptable to us that these works of such high economic cost, but of so many benefits to some, because they have been characterized by being carried out in precarious working conditions and with constant and continuous violations of the most elementary labour rights. That is why, yes, we believe that the management carried out in these great works in our country has proved perverse and with harmful consequences for workers. Although, I must say that I am shocked to hear the representative of the People's Party, because it has not only been because of that disastrous management that has been done, it has also been allowed by the labour regulations that have been in this country. A public procurement in which they continue to prevail today - despite these social clauses that exist and in which we agree, beyond how we believe they have to be implemented later - continue to prevail economic criteria today, aimed exclusively at minimizing the cost to contractors. And this, logically, is done at the expense of expressing the workers. It is a practice that, of course, is not exclusive to these works. But it has been evident in these works that move billions of euros, with, in addition, substantial, very large costs. With the participation of many companies, temporary unions of companies, contractors, subcontractors, successions of companies. A practice that has been evident in works that are subject, moreover, to political interests, also to the propaganda needs of governments and parties and, of course - and which I am most concerned about - because to great economic interests that have gone beyond these working conditions on many occasions. Standard practices of perverse subcontracting with the same objectives of labor exploitation, successions of companies to circumvent employers' obligations, public inability to enforce collective agreements by contractors and a great lack of coordination, too, in the field of prevention of labour risks with the most terrible consequences. All these harmful characteristics in these works during this long decade, in our opinion, have been demonstrated, above all, through hundreds of union complaints to the labor authority and to public institutions as well, but also through clear judgments and demands for labour inspection. We are not going to say that nothing has been done, but, precisely, many of these work inspection requirements demonstrate the conditions under which work has been done on these works, and work has unfortunately been done today. Complaints - and we have to remember - that were denied for a long time by some political parties, certainly by the construction companies affected, and also by the public administration itself in many cases. It is true that some of the issues of fraud that were being committed could be corrected by the recent approved labour reform. Of course, the application of the convention, in this case, in most cases the construction convention. But for that, you'll have to be on top, too. And that's why it's very important, and that's why we talk about comprehensive monitoring, because in the world of work one thing is the law and another thing is law enforcement. That is why we think that the first task after the adoption of this labour reform is to be on top of the cuts so that it can be carried out in companies. And also recently one of the construction agreements, Bizkaia, has been agreed, I think with some good conditions. But, in fact, we must also be on top of it to ensure that it is complied with, especially in the case of subcontracts. We believe that the institutions, and in particular the Basque Government, have an obligation to ensure effective mechanisms for monitoring the quality of employment and the fulfilment of working conditions. And we think that in these works it has not been done, or it has not been done properly, as the result we have seen in these years shows us. A supervision whose objective is to take all necessary measures to put an end to this situation and to ensure that any employment related to this type of work is a decent and good job; and, of course, with all guarantees in the field of safety and health at work. And that is why we believe that this Parliament should demand this from the government. In particular, when we talk about public works, we must demand - in our opinion - special measures, we proposed in our amendment, some of which we have negotiated with the proposing group, which are, however, very simple. In particular, I am referring to the specific in-depth monitoring of the actual conditions in which these works are carried out, because, as we have seen, there has been a great deal of precariousness and fraud in terms of the conditions and rights of the workers. We don't understand very well that you reject this. We understand that there is a Labour Inspectorate that does an ordinary job, we understand that there is an Osalan that does an ordinary job, we understand that there are those... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] ... We don't understand very well that you reject this. We understand that there is a Labour Inspectorate that does an ordinary job, we understand that there is an Osalan that does an ordinary job. We understand that there are those large-scale monitoring commissions that we believe have not produced a result either, or, of course, have not produced the result that should be. And that is why we believe that specific, concrete follow-up is needed on these issues. And we think - we believe after seeing the exchange of views or proposals to negotiate on the initiative that was brought to us today - we understand that there seems to be fear of making that effort, there is fear of carrying out a specific strict control work on the actual working conditions in these great works. I do not know whether there is fear of knowing the result of such monitoring or whether the result of such monitoring is known to the public. And the truth is that we regret it, because we are willing to talk about the employment strategy, Mr Rico knows it perfectly well, but today because the debate seemed to us to be the one that was brought to us, about those concrete works, and about that we have made the amendment, about that we have negotiated and about that I have talked about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u113	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u114	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that with the proposing group we have a lot in common and a lot of meeting points with regard to our commitment to decent employment in all areas, and also to great works, of course. But I have to be honest with you, and I also believe that EH Bildu's aim today is not really to talk about the rights of workers; because it is not a coincidence that we are being brought by an initiative in which they seek to refer exclusively to public works on which EH Bildu has historically been showing its disformity. Instead of making a joint assessment of the construction sector, to all public and private works, which in general is where if we want to be serious, we have to focus. But no, this motion is totally conditioned by EH Bildu's political position to these two infrastructures: the TAV and the underground intern. And from there, a story is created that points to them - or by chance - as the only projects that could be suspected of having an exclusively economic motivation for certain power lobbies, which is also extralucrated by exploiting the workers and failing to comply with the regulations in force, both for work and for the prevention of occupational risks. And, in addition, by way of insinuating - or directly accusing - the different public administrations of inaction and even of leaving office, as if the promoters - Basque Government, Adif - cared more about the time or cost of the works than the safety of the workers, and, incidentally, the Labour Inspectorate of the lack of due diligence. And I'm so sorry, but I have to tell them it's not like that. All public administrations comply in their contract documents with the legislation and regulations in force; and then we will talk about this regulation, this new regulation in force. And the Labour Inspectorate also works, carrying out random inspections along with those that are mandatory procedures and have to do well because an accident has occurred or because an annotation has been made in the book of incidents of the work by the security coordinator. And the security coordinators, the prevention services of the contracting companies and, of course, the trade unions also act diligently. And it is that all the agents I have appointed to them, together with the workers themselves, we are the ones who must work together and without political guidelines on the part of reducing one of the major problems of this society, which is the drama of labour sinestrality. Man, Mrs Garcia, trying to point out these only two projects such as those in which the focus has to be placed, I think that they can come very well to you for your parish, but with this little they bring to the workers in the construction sector; because they are short. Because it is true that the market of construction with the casualties in the tenders, as Mr Hernández pointed out, with its temporality, continuous mobility of workers and companies that generate different interpretations in the application of the sectoral agreements between provinces and a hyper-subcontracting, all favored by the already dead labor reform of the People's Party, have historically been a breeding ground for the violation of the regulations in force. And we are in compliance with this regulation and in compliance with labour rights and occupational safety and health, in these and in all works. And that's why, Mrs. Garcia, the focus must be opened. I assure you that this government will never look elsewhere. Vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia told him. From the Department of Employment and Labour there is a clear commitment to facts, not only because of the fulfilment of working conditions, but to go further and establish the strategy to ensure that the conditions of the job opportunities that are generated are of the highest quality and safety. We know that very well in this Parliament, because in May we were able to discuss and agree on motions for resolutions for the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, the main objective of which is to establish the conditions for the creation of quality employment in the Basque Country. At this point, I think it is important to remember that no proposal was put forward by the political groups that went deeper into the conditions of public subcontracting beyond what the department itself had already proposed in the original text, referring precisely to social clauses. Something that, therefore, we understand that everyone shares. On 13 December, however, the Osalan General Council approved the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work 2021-2026, which has also been supported by the Basque Social Dialogue Table. This new strategy changes the paradigm and aims for a preventive culture that permeates all the decisions of companies, social actors and the working people themselves for risk prevention and assessment, quantification and control. Therefore, as you see, this Government, and specifically the Department of Labour and Employment, is not looking elsewhere, but is putting all the tools in place in their hands to ensure that all, all, the jobs created in Euskadi are safe and of quality. And in that kind of reflection and general proposal that is necessary, our amendment focuses. Because we do want to focus on finding solutions to the problems that may arise in this sector. And in this sense, in the first point, we assume the implication that public procurement has on working conditions, and therefore we ratify the active role of the Administration with the use of social clauses in contracting as an instrument for developing quality employment and reducing time; that is, what is already contained in the Basque Employment Strategy... [[End of tape 54]] [[Start of tape 55.]] ... social clauses in recruitment as a tool for developing quality employment and reducing time; that is, what is already included in the Basque Employment Strategy as a strategic consideration. In the second point, we show our support for the new Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work, which is the framework of public policies for the prevention of occupational risks with the aim of reducing disaster in all productive sectors. And the last two points of our amendment have a lot to do with the three specific measures that you yourself raised on behalf of EH Bildu in the debate on the inquiry in December. And, there, you told us that we had to talk to the unions beyond the social dialogue table itself. Although the social dialogue table is not important to EH Bildu, it seems to us that it is a central body for establishing policies linked to labour regulations that affect precisely the occupational health and quality of employment of workers. And we deeply regret this view that you have and that explains to a great extent that a few days ago you were about to prevent the labor reform that emerged from the Spanish social dialogue table. Although in it, for example, concrete solutions are given to the problems arising from subcontracting; something of what you have made a flag in your speech, but it turns out that your colleagues in the Congress of Deputies voted against. In any case, and in spite not only of you, today in Spain we have a new labour legislation which now ensures that in subcontracting there will always be an applicable sectoral collective agreement, that of the activity of the main company or another, if it is determined by the sectoral collective bargaining. By making it possible to apply the company agreement only if it determines better working conditions than the sector which results from application. And to all this is added the express commitment made by Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, that both the Inspection and Osalan will monitor together with the social agents the fulfillment of the working conditions that must accompany every working person. And to that end, Mrs Garcia, we are proposing the maintenance of an area which we consider to be the right one, the commissions of great works, where the administrations, companies and social partners are involved; and which clearly seems to be the appropriate framework for coordination for the implementation of occupational risk prevention. And, on the other hand, that the Labour Inspectorate be guaranteed the technical and human means necessary to ensure sufficient, permanent and systematic inspection of the working conditions in the Basque Country. As you know, we have already had two legislatures increasing the number of labour inspectors and sub-inspectors on a permanent basis. For us, for the Socialists, it is a priority. But as you know, not everything is in our hands, because it is not up to us to provide these places, but it is up to the public job offers launched by the Ministry of Labour, and then they want to be covered by the inspectors themselves who have obtained the places. In any case - and as a synthesis of our position - quality employment implies decent and safe working conditions, as well as being able to guarantee both from the institutions. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the Socialists have been working to ensure that this is the quality employment legislature, and we do so in line with all the institutions; in Euskadi, with the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, with the new Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work, increasing the places and means for the Labour Inspectorate, fighting against labour fraud; and in Spain, raising the interprofessional minimum wage, more than 31% since 2012, and even yesterday raising it to 1,000 euros, fighting against labour fraud and social security with the approval of the Dignity Work Master Plan. And by adopting a new labour reform of the twenty-first century, which aims at a fair recovery, it reduces timelessness, strengthens the creation of quality jobs and offers subcontractors the guarantee that there will always be an applicable sectoral collective agreement. These are not wishes, they are concrete measures, measures that we implement and that are working well. And measures that, following the adoption of the new labour reform, will yield even better results also in the public works sector, having as we have the guarantee and express commitment of the Department of Labour and Employment that both the Inspectorate and Osalan will monitor together with the social agents the fulfillment of these new and improved working conditions that must accompany every working person. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u115	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Foreign patriots, Mrs. Lete, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u116	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, members of the legislative class, chief, President. The motives introduced are touched by a series of senses, that is to say, the approach of attitudes was important to us from our point of view, and it wasn't possible. I don't think we were so far from fundamental grounds, but it wasn't possible anyway. Still, I want to thank for the effort of the teams to reach something, of course, an attempt. By giving this beginning, I would like to remember that construction is the health and safety of the work that has been introduced, and that it is not at all the need of a conversation to guarantee the conditions of the public contract. We have heard in this chamber about the health and security of the work that we all need to improve the security conditions of security again and again, of course, if only one workman remains, we agree that it is too much. And that's what government and its autonomous organizations work for, even though they don't always get it. The government, the President of the Urcullu, has therefore been obliged to manage and combine the tools of the administration, the strategy of the Euscal Empulgue, the 2030 strategy, had preferred to work, the government of the President of the United States, in this second legislation, and you had met and discussed in this chamber. This has been a direct, fast, indispensable pursuit with the 2021-26 health and strategy of Euskal Lane. This plan is being introduced, and this congressman will soon be able to recognize it. These documents are the foundations, the foundations of good safety, of good management of safety and health in the world of work. Both documents give the field of work the tools that allow planning security, monitoring security, monitoring the... [[End of tape 55]] [[Start of tape 56.]] ... in the world of work. Both documents provide the work area with the tools to plan safety, monitor safety, monitor incidents and provide proposals for improvement for the sector. But, no doubt, I'm not going to talk about the high-speed train or the Donostia subway. These are works by the construction sector, but neither by far nor by far represent the construction sector. If we want to speak with property, and we were willing to do so, we should talk about building, civil work and rehabilitation, and, why not, we could reach the links connected with the work that can be the manufacture and construction of building materials and products. That's talking to property. That is to worry about the sector and its situation, to have an overview, to see how innovation can improve materials, products and their placement and, therefore, the situation of workers, the employment and safety situation. And speaking of this construction sector, we are talking, truly and properly, about construction. We can see the reality of the sector. And as I said (Pablo Iziaga?) At the Health and Safety Days that Osalan organized in autumn, we should have a vision of the whole. If we didn't do it that way, we could have a vision that wasn't real. We don't want to fall into that mistake. That is why I will talk about the construction sector, where the uniqueness of the construction processes, which are not industrialized processes, makes safety and health review, perhaps, a greater complexity with respect to other areas of work. And that is why, precisely because of this complexity, it is desirable and essential to change the approach and move towards an approach where the priority is the preventive culture for risk prevention and assessment, for quantification and control. It is no coincidence that this is the inspirational guideline of the Basque Employment Strategy, of the Basque Occupational Safety and Health Strategy as well, as we indicated in our alternative motion. It is no coincidence that this is also the inspirational principle of the Basque Employment Strategy, whose two keys are: the guarantee of health and the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate appears here too. And we also emphasized it in our amendment proposal. In addition, the Basque Employment Strategy is an element of cross-cutting application to the action of the Government, to the action of its departments, of its various departments. And therefore, I am not going to talk about the works to which the original motion refers, because the Government is also working in the public enterprise - witness we have Mr Arriola here, the adviser -, manages and promotes numerous rehabilitation aid, manages and promotes buildings also in the field of justice, in the education nodes, in the industrial and polygonal fields that are to be regenerated after many years of use, and carries out various actions in all these fields. And all these areas and all these actions are in the construction sector and in all the Government takes into consideration safety and health measures, monitors, evaluates and analyses and does improvement actions, proposals for improvement. This is what the sector, in its absolute breadth, should collect. And this is in the area of safety and health, which is reflected in the Basque Security Strategy. That is the sector and its complexity, which occupies and concerns the Government, I am sure of that. And that is why we have mentioned and referred in my speech to the importance of preventive culture and how it is also an obstacle to education. I have insisted during my intervention on the culture of prevention because in it is the future and the probability of improvement. Because it is an atomized sector, small business, where the demographic challenge that society faces, we are already facing, will force us to train, in a continuous way, the current workers and those who arrive from other latitudes, because our social fabric will specify it. That is why Osalan has a division dedicated to continuing training. This is an important key for EAJ/PNV. It is important for the Government, for the Department of Employment, of course, and for the Department of Education as well. And these are the aspects that we have dealt with in our motion. The motive also tells us that the price of fluidization should not be the only decisive element for the allocation, he said it was only economic. I have but little to say, because I know that the law of the Public Contractation is fulfilled; I have no doubt that economic criteria are not the only criterion used to impose, but that does not mean that we should not consider it. Public procurement is a balancing exercise, in which the best offer is sought, but not the best economic offer. And so does the Government, being the best offer that takes into account quality and price. We can probably discuss how that is achieved, we will perhaps discuss between the parliamentary groups, with the contracting bodies of the Government, which do not belong to us; we could... we could, and will certainly discuss, the hiring technicians. But, having said this, I am sure that, in the attempt to achieve that balance, the spirit of work is always that of designing contract documents in which public money is used in the best way, in the most rigorous way, and, for this, the economic criterion is taken into account, as it cannot be otherwise, but also, surely, there are used those tools that the Law of Contracts offers, using social, environmental clauses with the margins that the law of course offers. And we must urge the Government to continue to do so on the road to a system and its sustainability. And that's how we picked it up in our motion. In the midst of the work conditions, you propose to complete a table of risks of work in the original mutation. We quite agree with that, but it's not an ex novo, it's an ex novo. If it were, well, planning, maybe we could make sense. But the table... in great substructures the table is formed, all the agents are placed on that table, has a peculiar character, a permanent character... If life is at least ten years old, well, duration, at least, and its results are being given, and it will continue to yield. We should therefore agree, if we remember that table in motion, but remember it, and not as you propose to go by the way of creation. Thank you all for saying this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. A group that hasn't run any corrections won't participate. So, the answers are on... [[End of tape 56]] [[Start of tape 57.]] ... in short, thank you all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. A group that hasn't run any corrections won't participate. So we're gonna take the answers round. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garcia, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u119	Thank you, ma'am. I do not know whether I have misexplained myself or whether the motion put forward has not been properly read, but the measures we have put forward in the motion are for the great public works in general; we are not limiting it only to that of the high-speed train or that of the subway of Donostia, but what is the doubt that these works - because of their entity and the size of the work breaches that have been given and because of the complaints that the trade unions have brought to this Parliament and we have heard them - are the paradigm to somehow illustrate how things should not be done. Therefore, there is no interest in limiting it, but it is expressly stated in the motion "and in the following public works of the future". I agree that construction is indeed a precarious sector, not only in public works, but in general. But I perceive in the answer an intention to hide responsibility and mix it with construction; and, indeed, the sector is precarious, but I believe that where the public service is the direct contractor it has much greater responsibilities and much greater possibilities to be able to influence. And that is what we are asking: that public works in this sector of construction where precariousness is structural, the Administration uses the instruments it has - which it has - so that this does not happen. Then Mr Rico's speech, because I think he has said one thing because it is a little bit of a concern, because I think it is an amendment to what he said to us at first. He tells us that he may agree with what we have proposed, but then, suddenly, it turns out that there should be no problems in public works and the problem is that EH Bildu is against these infrastructures. I ask again, I told the counselor, do you really believe that all unions lie when they make these complaints? Does the representative of the political party of the Labour Council really believe that and say that, Government? I don't think so. But I might have wanted to suggest something like that. It's not a reality, it's that EH Bildu wants to use it because it's against those infrastructures. I guess you can't think all unions are lying. But, on the other hand, the political communities of the Government have taken advantage of the motion of the EH Collectations to applaud the plans of the Government, although they have shown no will to direct them to the exact actions of the public work. The proposals received in our motion are perfectly protective of the employment and employmental plans for this government's health. Hence, in refusing to agree with the points of our motion, it is shown that the Government has but little courage to pass through words into the contest in which the employment of quality is paid. The strategic plan will be left in nothing if it does not serve to face the known state of the Precinct in the public work, it may occur in nothingness. Hence we repeat, that it is incompatible to say that the Government wagers for worthy employment and inquisite, and that the efficient measures of preventing the pre-electorship which is developing the work of a high-speed train, as it will to-day. And today we have not seen that will, and in view of the new phases and tenders and tenders to be made with the works of the high-speed train we have a question. In view of this, what is to be approved will they continue to award public works to the well-known companies, which accumulate numerous complaints in the labour inspection, judicial decisions condemning unpaid wages or even putting workers' lives at risk? I believe that the interest of the groups of the Government in using our motion more to applaud the plans of the Government than to propose measures in the public works has led them to ask Parliament to support the new Basque strategy of safety and health at work, when it has not even been presented to the parliamentary groups in the Commission, in an appearance still pending from the Counsellor. I have read it, but we have neither participated in its elaboration nor have the parliamentary groups been heard. We know that they have an absolute majority, but I believe that the groups in this House deserve to submit this strategy to their support, not after they have met her, after hearing the Councilwoman's explanations. On the subject of labour reform, I imagined that I would take advantage of our motion to continue with the campaign for labour reform signed in Madrid, it seems that it is necessary to justify this labour reform over and over again. And, well, I'm also going to take advantage of it to give you my opinion, and I think that your labor reform has plenty of complacency, plenty of propaganda and plenty of content to tell us that you are people of your word and that you are fulfilling your commitments. Thank you. And for the end, I'll ask EAJ and PSE to vote for the corrections. Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The representative of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados, Mrs. Larre, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u121	Let's see. I'll be very brief. I want to say that we must not deny the evidence, in the explanatory statement of the motion you speak clearly of the two works with which you have historically been against. Applying labour inspections to the entire construction sector would be the right thing to do, but there wouldn't be..., that is, of course we're not going to get into the game of talking about inspection only of the big works. Because it is true that in the construction sector there are large public works, but there are also small public works in which workers' job security must also be preserved. Therefore, I am not going to extend much longer, but I want to tell you that your motion is a little, well, because it goes in a really political sense of discrediting a number of great works, but you have to take into account if you really want to defend workers' labour rights... [[End of tape 57.]] [[beginning of tape 58.]] ... really political sense of discrediting a series of great works. But you have to bear in mind, if you really want to defend the labour rights of construction workers, that there are also small works to be inspected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Bezzerbez team won't speak. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Well, first of all, we also recognize that we have had conversations with both EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. And although it has not been possible to reach an agreement, I also thank you for the tone of the various talks that we have had. For us, and I want to make it clear, any accident at work is a tragedy. And that's obvious. And I think we all share it. And that can't be called into question. And we're on it. You said, Mrs Garcia, that you were concerned about some issues that you suggested could be understood by my words, and that I denied you with my head and finger because, in fact, you cannot understand that of what I have said. I do not deny the complaints of either the workers or the unions. Moreover, I believe that what you have to do, if there are such complaints, to investigate and come to the ultimate consequences. And that's what we all stand for. But I also understand that there is a partisan use when it is determined that there are two specific infrastructures where we have to focus and that, incidentally, they coincide with those two infrastructures that EH Bildu has historically maintained an opposition. And you also know that there are trade unions, certain trade unions, which also politically, not syndicately, politically, have protested against these same infrastructures. And I believe that there is a political use on certain issues, and in this case a concrete one, when one wants to put the magnifying glass on a very specific area, which, if it exists, has to be investigated, but I do not think it is of any use to workers. Because we, I think you too, are for that quality job to reach the entire construction sector, and that is our basis. Of course, we're on it. And you said, "How? "Stay the same?" No, no, no, no. What do you mean, keep it the same? See, you read our amendment. Basque Employment Strategy 2030, which we have just approved. Which is that this is not something we had approved here. No, no. This Government has adopted it, it has been brought here by the Department of Employment and Labour, and we discussed it in May and made motions for resolutions. A new tool. And, in addition, a new tool that recognizes the strategic role of public administrations in being able to act in shaping quality employment through social clauses. New tool. The new Occupational Safety and Health Strategy. So new that, in fact, it remains for us to see it in the Employment Committee. Man, a public presentation was made. The only representatives of parliamentary groups we were: the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. There was no more. I'm saying it too, I'm saying it too. Inspection and Osalan, third point of our amendment. Look, you know we've been increasing the number of inspectors for a few years: three in 2021, three in..., four in 2022, and three in 2023. That's what we're gonna have from now on. New, that is, not old. With the usual... No, no. New. And, in addition, acting from the Inspection. And equipping the Inspection with all the means. It is reflected in the Strategy, it is also a requirement of the Basque Social Dialogue Bureau. Even tomorrow the vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia meets with the Secretary of Employment of... - sorry - with the Secretary of State for Employment to chair the Basque Council of Labour and Social Security Inspectors, precisely to implement all these tools. And that's new. Moving from words to facts, we are already doing it with these tools. And, of course, we're also doing it with the Labor Reform. No, it's not propaganda. It is that it has a great deal of impact, precisely, on the area you are talking about. Look, the Labor Reform makes 280,000 construction employees fixed. Moving from words to deeds. We would have liked you to move from words to deeds seven days ago by getting this from us. They didn't. Subcontracting. You spoke in your speech about the problems of subcontracting. The Labour Reform gives contractual guarantees to subcontractors. What are the Socialists voting for? That's right. What did you vote for? No, I don't. Mrs. Garcia, I think we have a lot in common. And I think we are going to develop many common bets for quality employment, but in this they have failed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u124	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mrs. Lete, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u125	I see, Mrs Garcia, that you're regretting it. It's written "concretatemente's Las arias del TAV y De De Donostia." That's what your motive said. You've been denying it a little while ago. If Mrs. President gave us the third round, maybe we could talk about it somewhere else, right? I do not understand, I do not understand that a parliamentary group that says it is concerned about safety and health in the sector in the labor world only refers to the great civil works, some civil works, and does not remember that in Euskadi there are, approximately, 21,100 construction companies, where the average of workers is nine workers per company, where the atomization is great, where the calculation of accidents in 2019, that be a reference year, in... [[End of tape 58.]] [[LIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... where the average number of workers is nine workers per enterprise. Where the atomization is great. Where the calculation of accidents in 2019, which may be a reference year, 94% fell in the building and rehabilitation sector, and 6% in the civil works sector; not in large civil works. Perhaps, if the true intention of the motion were to make constructive contributions to the safety and health conditions in the complex sector itself, the motion would not have focused only on that 6% of accidents, and would have opened the gap to it by about 100%. Of course these are also relevant, important and to be taken into consideration. I cannot conceive why other works, which have the same or greater importance, are not referred to. I can't understand. With agreement, how come you didn't open the camp? Are you afraid of spreading your view? When I was working on the subject, I was asking myself about −, when he did the government at Getaria, the president will remember that when he emptied the apartment, there had been a great lucise, and when he did, it was a different arrangement? Did the government act differently? Or if Bermeon, the harbour dura, after a mareton, received terrible damages, and when the government settled it, did a different design? Was the conditions different? Was it different? Or when the waters have settled the stream of Elpages? Or when the Estilator has turned away? Did the government act differently? Has the government used other pludes? I don't think so. I'm sure you don't. Jaurlaritzak was berdinean jokatu du, elementu berdinekin, eta uste dut diffrentzia bakarra of the work horiek agian, agian, zuen gustukoa dira, agian, eta, only perhaps the intention of the motion was not to talk about the conditions of safety and health but to talk about some concrete works. But the concern of the Government and the groups that support the Government is the world of work. If we want to specify more the construction sector - perhaps - and the civil work of course, but without taking away the focus on building, and without taking away the focus on rehabilitation, than when we are thinking of energy challenge, climate change, decarbonisation, and when we are thinking that there are 21,000 small companies in Euskadi, the majority of small companies in Euskadi, which are dedicated to these sectors where the implementation of the preventive culture that roots in the company is difficult, it is difficult, it will be difficult, where it will be difficult for workers to achieve that knowledge, that is where we have to emphasize, because, of course, we have a demographic challenge that will also affect this sector. It's not the only one that's the only one that's used the means of taxing the public contractor, but it's not the only one. The proposed team knows it's not the only one, and I'll bring two examples on the table. In one work, at the present moment, in a work that is active, the work and plan of a work are placed at 45 points, and the economically supplied, 51, and the other equally. It is clear, therefore, that managing public money with strict control, that in public litigations the economical criterion is not the only one. He's not the only one. The conditions which the law of resistance imposes, the improvements, and the depth of examination, I think it must be remarked that, together with this organization and examination, certainty is gained. But, well, I'd say you're clear too that economic standards aren't the only one. Then I don't know why you don't confirm what we said in our motion. Eta, azkenik, azpiegitura handien mahaiak hamar urte daramala, arbor funzionjamendua bermata dagoela, arbor emaitzak izan dituena, éta exijitu behar diugu Gobernuari horrekin martxan jarraitzeko, of course, being all geratzeko. It is good, therefore, how not, the Social Dialogue Bureau is another element, it is important, it is collected in the employment strategy, and it is an indispensable instrument. He invited all those who are not participating at this time to join it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. End of discussion, we're going to vote. We're going to vote. And first, we vote for EH Collect and together Podemos-Nozeral corrections that have been signed by the Animals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u127	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 62; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u128	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and Eucabertians. It's just asking for stitches, I think there's no problem, if you tell me how. Okay. Well, we vote... [[Berber]] Wait. Wait, wait. Maybe we start again? [[Berber]] One, two, three points, one full correction, two three points. [[End of tape 59.]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 75; the 10th, 41; the contrary, 27; Abstations 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u129	So the first three points have been accepted. We'll vote for Point 4. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0; Absences 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u130	So it's accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, published by Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the popularo-Ciudadans, the measures which should be made to ensure the entire execution of the Eucharist funds. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gordillo, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen, members of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. The motion that we are bringing from our group to this House today has to do with a problem that has been raised or that I have also personally repeatedly raised with the Councillor for Economic Affairs and Finance, and that is the question of the implementation of the budgets here in our autonomous community. Well, I'll split my intervention into three parts. The first, I will try to put on the table the data provided by the Basque Government itself. Secondly, I will try to make some arguments that I believe the Basque Government should implement a number of measures. Thirdly, I will try to summarise what measures we propose to ensure that the budgets are fully implemented. Look, as I say in the motion and as evidenced during the motion, in 2020 an additional, or already existing, cash balance of EUR 542 million was generated. In the last five years alone, the remaining total treasury amounted to almost EUR 1 billion. And this is only what is known as the General Administration. That is to say, if we add what could be called the instrumental administration, for example, a known fact which is that of Lanbide, which has another surplus of more than EUR 200 million. And your ladies and gentlemen, who know perfectly well the budgets because we have just been dealing with them in this House not long ago, because there was also a series of, let's say, elements, agencies, etc. of the Basque Government that almost what he was doing was to repeat exactly once again to re-enter his accounts almost to the same budget, except for personnel costs to deal with the next year. Thus, the work that was being done could also be discussed from another point of view. Of course, it is also striking that the remnant of treasury that has occurred most since it occurs in pandemic times, isn't it? You'll tell me "well, man, it's just that, of course, the Administration could be standing still, the Administration because it had trouble working, etc." Well, but now we will also see some data that we have been unable, the government and the public authorities, among which this Parliament is also, we have been unable to give a solution and, above all, to distribute properly and to give back to society because much of the money from the funds that citizens, with so much effort, pay to contribute to the implementation of the public policies of the social state; that, here in this House, because all the groups we say defend, but, of course, because some with more arguments than others. The circumstance, let's say it's very striking. What does the government say about this? It is interesting to hear the Government's response. The government usually says, "No, man, no, Mr. Gordillo, you're an exaggeration. More than 90% of the budget of the Autonomous Community is implemented." Of course, the whole part about salaries - that is an automatic issue - is clearly implemented. What doesn't run? Look, what is not implemented is what must be the main task of a Government as such, which is not expenditure, let's say, automatic or automated, which is investment, which is investment. And I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the star element of this year's budget was precisely investments. It was precisely investments. A brief review. We've got the data. In 2020, EUR 95 million in real investment ceased to be executed; in 2019, EUR 132 million in real investment ceased to be executed; in 2018, 131; 2017, 295; 2016, 256. I repeat that this is only what the General Administration of the Autonomous Community is. We have asked questions and requests for written information to the Government to really know what the degree of non-implementation is by adding all agencies that also have budgetary remnants. According to all this information, as I said before, in the last five years we have been around the nine hundred and ten million euros below, very little below the 1 billion euros in real investment. Of course, this is a troubling thing. This is a matter of concern. During the parliamentary debate from which it derives, from which this motion derives, man, the councillor was asked, but also sincerely, even looking for a way to reach a meeting point so that this does not happen. Why? And above all, I raise my doubts about a fundamental issue... [[60th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 61.]] ... to reach a meeting point so that this does not happen. Why? And above all, I would like to ask you my doubts about a fundamental question: if this year's main milestone in the budget was to be investments and it turns out that where the government fails most is investments, what is left of this?, what is left of it? And, well, Mr. Counsellor, after the debate, the second part, which is always the most interesting, of the interpellation, because, as you will remember, recognized it. And it's in the Journal of Sessions. And he told me and recognized, and so it is in the Journal of Sessions, that he would already sign that we arrived at... 50 % of the investments foreseen in the budget will be implemented. Look, if the government itself predicts that it will not reach almost 50%, why are we budgeting this? To do a job, let's say, of public relations, government communication, that these are the budgets with the greatest investment? Because, of course, what are the more social budgets is a little worn out because all the latter were always the more social. We should, perhaps, look for another element. Is that the only reason? Well, man, I think we should all be self-critical here. I insist, 1.6 billion have been budgeted in real investments, only the budget of the autonomous community itself, and already the Councillor of Economics and Finance himself admits that, well, if we reach 50%, we will sing in our teeth. Sure, what situation does this leave us? What are other circumstances added? Well, look, this is only the budget of the autonomous community, as I said, but it is that you remember that of a series of money, of financing that has arrived through the central government, it has had to return more than 100 million euros. Remember, some EUR 100 million of aid had to be returned which could not be implemented, which could not be awarded. Here is a discussion about the requirements that were needed, which were... according to potential recipients, as they were a series of requirements that were very difficult to meet. And another 100 million euros were returned. What are the government's excuses or arguments? First, this is good management. Of course, when I am told that this is good management, I say: "Man, if good management is to accumulate without more than one remnant, will it not be better money, I say, in the pockets of businesses and citizens so that they can dispose of it in individual and social projects that they also consider convenient? Wouldn't it be better in the pockets of, I insist, citizens and businesses?" Sure, why don't you collect less? Why are collection levels not reviewed? Secondly, the government's second argument: "Man, Mr Gordillo, it comes well, it comes well, it comes well, have this remnant because already in complicated situations we can pull from it". Man, I don't know. But, I insist, the lack of capacity shown by the Government in managing these amounts. And look, and I'll give you another example, ladies and gentlemen, that you already know. A short time ago, outside parliaments have announced that they are going to raise a thousand..., which was raised, rather, last year, 1.7 billion euros more than was expected to be raised, i.e. a surplus in collection of 1.7 billion euros. Not only that, but this Tuesday's Governing Council has also approved the possibility of issuing a debt of EUR 1,450 million. That is to say, another 1,700 euros plus another 1,450 million euros. I mean, we have about 1,000. It is true that there is an important amount that has been moved to this year's budget. Let's leave it in that there are about six hundred and ten million, about, in remnants only of the General Administration. But then we have a rather important collection, 1.7 billion more collection, which is true that we will also have to share with the parliaments and municipalities, but there is a significant amount, and then another 1.5 billion more. Well, boy, the truth is that I think that here there is a bit of abuse, especially in a context in which the parliaments and the municipalities with the approval of the last Law on Contributions, as you recall, have seen their also economic capacity diminished for the benefit of the Basque Government, which here has produced an important centralization of the collection and an important centralization after the management of that money. What is the Government's third argument already? Well, this is the typical one, "And you plus," that is, "we're the ones who's the most executed." "Don't complain, Mr. Gordillo, that we are the administration that most executes." Man, I do complain. Of course I'm complaining. If I were an Andalusian Member of Parliament and the Andalusian Government did not do so, I would say so. If I were a Member, what do I know, in Madrid, I would do the same if I didn't execute it. (...?) So, listen, let us repeat it once again. Here there is a fundamental problem, which we will discuss on another occasion too, and it is the absolute deparliamentarization that exists in what is economic management in the case of Euskadi, with the subject of taxes on the one hand, with the subject of diverse economic management, etc. But, well, I think there's a certain capacity, I think there's a certain possibility. And I think the government can do, really, is that I think the government can and should do more. For example, at the same Governing Council on the other day, Tuesday, an order was adopted, which we are waiting for... I am waiting, in fact, with great interest to see its text published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, an order was approved establishing the administrative processes for budget implementation, it is said, accounting, management and monitoring of the projects concerned with the recovery and resilience mechanism. In short, the Governing Council adopted a specific regulation this Tuesday to, say, regulate the management and implementation of European funds. Three ideas, because I have taken this out of the government's press file too, I have not invented it either, three ideas that appear in that file on the content of that order, of that regulatory rule. First of all, listen, it is said, moreover, that this is already another league, no, "this has to be the subject of special consideration because the ordinary regime of use of the mechanisms of implementation and budgetary control is altered". Of course, it is that European money has one thing, ladies and gentlemen, that if it is not executed, it must be returned. Of course, the autonomous community we do not execute and passes to the next, and passes to the next. We don't run here and we have to return it. The first element of this rule, because the funding has to be milestones, that is, you have some projects and milestones, some milestones means, as you know, that at certain temporary times you have to have achieved certain objectives, and, if you do not, it penalizes you and you may have to return the funding. Secondly, a number of measures must be adopted to complement, above all, the absence of certain anti-fraud measures, conflicts of interest, financing and, say, over-financing or double public funding. And, therefore, a series of regulations will also have to be adopted on these issues. And, thirdly, and this is very interesting, human resources. This is an important problem that has not only Euskadi, which has Spain in general, with the issue of the management of funds. And it's just that we're... we're... we're... we're... [[End of tape 61]] [[Start of tape 62]] ... Very interesting, human resources. This is an important problem that has not only Euskadi, which has Spain in general with the issue of the management of funds. And we have enough human resources to manage European funds. It is that the European Commission itself has already complained on some occasion. At the end of last year the head of regional funds said: "It seems that Spain cannot do two things at a time, because with the issue of the funds these - the Resilience Mechanism, etc. - because it is busy in this and is letting go of the ERDF funds, that is, the classical cohesion funds, right?". (...), by the way, he must be recognized, at the time, as president of this country, Fr Felipe González Márquez, for his age. There are those funds, 34 billion sleeping the dream of the righteous, which we could perfectly access, and it is not done. But in this rule, the Basque Government, ladies and gentlemen, which is said to be saying that in order to be able to execute these projects and so on and to spend these European money - which if we do not have to return, not like our own that we can keep them in the hut - we are going to appoint interim staff as well. I mean, okay, we're having an approval, trying to approve a rule, to see, among other things, whether interim staff are being released, at the high rates of interim staff that we have in the Autonomous Community - we've had to amend the EBEP after a series of rulings from the Constitutional Court and some other court - and now it turns out that we haven't learned, again we're going back to the issue of interims. That's why I say, ladies and gentlemen, you can do things, you can do things. What has the Basque Government done about this? Well, look, this is the order they say they've passed - let's get to the details soon - but what has been done so far? Well, the other way around. It is curious that this section is excluded and that for the rest of the budget implementation these same rules that could be applied are not applied. That is to say, here instead of establishing compliance by milestones and if we do not lose that funding and we cannot repeat the heading - because, ladies and gentlemen, there have been headings that have been in the budgets for three years, four years in a row. It's just that this too... - Well, they accumulate remnants. Secondly, it resists as much as possible to adopt certain measures of, let us say, modernization of the administration itself, and above all it also resists the adoption of laws and certain elements in the case of the management of the public service and the public sector that would make much modernization to the Basque administration itself. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking this House today to approve this motion, which simply says one thing: there is a problem and that no significant amounts of the budgets are being implemented. And since they are not executed, let's do one thing: either we collect less or we give that money back to society, and above all, at this moment, let's also give that money back to the most vulnerable groups, who are also the most affected ones in this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u132	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, representing the Podemos Anther Group, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Well, first of all, Mr Gordillo, tell you that there are a number of issues on which our parliamentary group agrees, more in the first part that we mention, and then I will go on to put to you where there is disagreement and why it is going to lead us to vote - already in advance - against your original initiative. Firstly, to say that it is true that the Basque Government has a problem with implementation; that it is true that in certain respects the budgetary policy of the Basque Government is to carry out investments year after year; and that in its explanatory statement it has reported well, how we have gone, as I said, carrying out certain shortcomings in recent years, although it is a common practice in recent decades. And it is also true, that you mentioned, that one of the parts of the advertising campaign in the current budget was the 50% increase in investments, which extended the budget from Chapters 6 and 7 to EUR 1,291 million. What if in November they had only executed 571? That is, it does seem obvious that there is a dysfunction between what is foreseen by the Government and what is then actually implemented and materialized. We can also see - and you have also explained it in your explanatory statement, or you have reported in it - that precisely in the year of the pandemic, when more resources were needed or needed to deal with it, curiously, the most important distinction was made between what was available and what was actually then destined in terms of public policies. In all this, and even with regard to... You mentioned it as deparlamentarization, I don't know if we would refer exactly to the same as to the existence of different institutional levels, that model that you propose, which is one and unique, we do not share, but we do believe that there is little exercise in this regard. And one example of this was the development and implementation of this software that brought us in the last few months for the development of this latest budget, SAP, which was an absolute disaster; but in any case, we are not going to go in that it is flour from another costal. What we do not agree with is the ideas underlying your approach, which seem almost more important to us and which you are sure that you already know perfectly well that we do not share, and that is that you come to say that since the planned investments are not implemented, for these, logically, are not necessary and therefore we should lower the tax pressure; or, failing that, of course, do not be indebted, do not increase the public deficit, only that it is destined to amortize debt. We do not share that model, but we do not share it because what we believe is that we need to improve the mechanisms of budget implementation; and probably, even if we do not implement everything budgeted, we would have enough to cope with the necessary economic recovery and assist the most vulnerable groups. It is quite difficult and quite incompatible to propose to allocate public resources to innumerable collectives, as you propose, to encourage the action of small and medium-sized enterprises, to generate... [[End of tape 62]] [[Start of tape 63]] ... As you propose, to encourage the action of small and medium-sized enterprises, to generate innovative projects in the country and to talk about the strengthening of Osakidetza - as you do in many of the plenary sessions - and, in turn, to suggest that, well, that the problem of inexecutions is not so much that it was aimed at it and, in turn, probably, to compensate it with debt, but that, in any case, this fate of money is not necessary and so let us lower the level of fiscal pressure, and that money remains in the pockets of citizens, probably of those who have the most, who are the most paying, and therefore in them would stay, and well. That model, which is the underlying idea of non-implementation in its approach, cannot be shared. That is to say, we do believe, and I am convinced that it is a general opinion in this Parliament that we need to improve the instruments of budgetary implementation and especially of real investments, but I do not believe that there is a consensus that, to the extent that it is not implemented, the fiscal pressure must be lowered, and we should probably get rid of those budgeted economic amounts and that available public. I do not think there is a single parliamentary group here to share the model with you. It is also true that you have mentioned the inability to execute linked to the meagreness and weakness of the Administration, especially with regard to the staff of the Administration, and, man, let the People's Party say so, taking into account the limits it established as a result of the financial crisis to recruitment through replacement rates, it has fabric. So, I mean, that's also an exercise in cynicism, in my opinion quite important. And it is true that what you mention about the difficulties in implementing European funds is there. It is true, but, of course, the People's Party is doing little to ensure that the European funds are no longer implemented, and that they reach Spain. Because your advertising campaign in the European Union, or at least your leader, Pablo Casado, is well known. So let the European funds be used here as regards the need for their implementation, when in turn they propose policies that have nothing countercyclical... In other words, you come to say that there is no need for public investment, that there is no need for public leadership in economic recovery, but here you come to take heart of the need for European funds. And then, on top of it, too, from behind, they go to Europe and say that Spain does not get the European funds for the existing social-communist government. So, tell me what your model really is, because I can't see it. If your proposal had been limited solely to saying that we need more appropriate budgetary implementation mechanisms and that, where appropriate, even the capacities of the Basque administration must be strengthened in order to make it effective, we would have agreed. But, of course, you have broadened the range beyond; that is, you have even come to get into the garden of fiscal policy. So, of course, it is that, in the end, the consensus there, as you will understand, is impossible with regard to your group and mine. In this regard, I am not going to insist much more on the issue either, because I believe that the letters are on the table, and that is the time. Therefore, tell him - as I said at the beginning - that we are going to vote against, and that I also understand the lack of negotiation in recent days to reach a consensus because you yourself knew that no agreement could be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u134	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry about my voice, but that's how life is. Good afternoon, everyone. This evening, Mr. Gordillo is bringing us a motion around the budget execution, as has been said, due to an interaction made to the chairman of the Underlying Section. You can talk a long time about executions and stops, technically, politically. Technically, it is essential to know the sources of the execution, and to know the sources of the stops, in order to fix the use they may have. The knowledge of the amount of the remains will also help us to know the state of the financial health of the administration. It is natural to discuss whether the execution is suitable or not, and how particularly we must look for the highest degree of execution in beauty, and how beautiful we shall direct the remaining to the stops. And here, as is well known, there are different political points of view in this legislature. Prioritys for the EH Collector, people are the axis of public policy. And this being so, we clearly see that the improvement of the protection and conditions of life of men is one of the principal ends of the pretty budget. And thus we have several times remarked that in this house the remnants ought to be directed with the utmost priority to strengthen public services. This discussion, and this method has been somewhat stated, when the previous economic crisis was severe, we have had more than once in the autocommys and the States impose upon us and in relation to our duty. The truth is that during the crisis started in 2008, there were many debates in this house, not only on what to allocate public budgets or on the priorities to be defined in very difficult times of management, but also on what was done with the remnants in an environment marked then by the constraints imposed by Madrid. In all public institutions, some out of obligation and others, why not say, out of devotion, the remnants have been addressing mainly debt reduction, without taking into account the level of debt or the financial health of the institution, and above all, and most seriously, often without taking into account the needs of the society to which public institutions must serve. [[End of tape 63]] [[Start of tape 64]] ... institution, and above all, and most seriously, often without taking into account the needs of the society to which public institutions must serve. And it is curious, the truth, to hear today, as the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos has already said, to hear today a representative of the People's Party, whose government imposed this team of draconian limitations, speak today of (destiny?) Remnants of the Government. And it is curious, once again, to hear the People's Party claim issues that they, ruling in the state, limited to the rest of public administrations. Of course, it is also true that Mr Gordillo does not miss the opportunity to ask in a very subtle way that Basque institutions renounce aside from their income by lowering taxes, because their argument "total, they are not used, and why are we going to collect them?". Then, for example, if we start with problems like they exist today and suffer from health, then make private insurance and we will move on, right? That is the policy of the People's Party. The truth is that the right hand constantly uses to lower taxes as if it were the balm of Fierabrás: the same goes for a broken one as for a loose one. It's good for everything to lower taxes, for everything. To the right always the solution is to lower taxes. We can talk a lot about tax politics, but I don't think that's the discussion today. The Basque Country has made its attitude clear to the policy of the tax, of course, and our position is sufficiently known. In order to start the tax-reformation, we put on the table a kind of ponciency that will restore the public discussion, including the others, even the budget itself. But again I say: this I do not think to be the discussion of the day. Apart from the remainder, in a separate chapter of the budget, the proposed group insists on execution. This chapter, which seems to be the chapter of real investments, seems to be the priority of the proposer in these public funds. Here, too. (... ) Again, the priority of each group. Investers are important, and we won't deny them, but all investments can be desired. And it's incomprehensible to me to ask a group of people whose budgets have been highly criticized today to fill them up here in a concrete chapter of the budgets, to fill up a concrete one, to agree to the measures. That means that the sixth chapter of PPYING's budgets is fine, that it protects that sixth chapter. Otherwise, why does he ask for measures to guarantee the execution of the sixth chapter? I really don't understand that very well. Mr. Subautulation itself gave reasons for the increase of the stop, and I will not repeat them here, and some will be ready for it. But that was his explanation. The growth of budget stops may have different reasons, and some of them are more desirable from our point of view than others. but we will by no means consent to stop stopping by for not executing certain games which are essential to provide for public politics. One thing is clear: That the budget has to answer the needs of society, and that it's time for you to use all the resources that are available to it. That's our attitude, and that's what we're following our political activity. So it's plain we don't agree with the inscription or motion of the proposer. Again, the correction of Podemos is in accordance with the correction of Poseidon, and in some matters we may be fully satisfied. We have said what our proposal is about the political attorney, and today I have explained it. So we don't just think what's written here should be the way, but I really think the discussion... I don't know how to say it, but... Mr. Gordillo, we've told you many times that such discussions are of no use to anything really. We, together, will abstain from Podemos' proposal, not to agree on the whole matter. .). Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. The band that hasn't issued any corrections, Mistha mustn't speak. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u137	Yeah. Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Let us see, in the debate that has brought us here today, Mr Gordillo, this is neither a debate nor a distant one in time nor a novel one in its content. This has been a matter which has been dealt with recently up to three times last December: one, on the occasion of the plenary of the amendments to all the budgets for 2022; the other, on the occasion of the question which you yourself made to the Finance Minister, three days after the amendment to all the budgets by the People's Party-Citizens was rejected, and for the third time, in the final debate on those budgets on 23 December, in which it was finally adopted with your vote against those budgets for 2022 of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. And that is why this is not going to be a novel debate either, because with today's debate we will have dealt with the matter four times in less than two months. And the most regrettable thing is that it is not going to be a practical debate either, because, far from putting forward by the Basque-Citizens' Group a solution to concrete proposals for the improvement of this budget implementation, this motion is the only one that seeks to put on track its criticism of the Basque Budgets Act for 2022, which has been adopted by a large majority of this House. And the Basque Socialists have already argued our position in those debates that we have had and this has not changed within that two-month period. So, read your motion and heard your statement, Mr Gordillo, I will reiterate the position of the Basque Socialists, contrary to your initiative, for the following reasons: first, because both in the government agreement between Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists as in the government program itself is specified and our commitment for an administration is developed... [[End of tape 64]] [[Start of tape 65]] ... between Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists as in the government program itself is specified and develops our commitment for an Administration that manages public resources responsibly and through its rigorous use. Essentially, in order to ensure public services and to encourage the response to the economic and employment crisis caused by this pandemic. This is how the public accounts of Euskadi have been managed in terms of what we have in the legislature, and with a pandemic of serious health, economic and social consequences; but it has been managed responsibly and rigorously and prudently. Secondly, because both the content of the motion and that of the question that it brings about mimic the same approach that the People's Party-Citizens have already put forward in the budgetary debate on this matter. And the Basque Socialists want to make it clear once again - as Mr Azpiazu also said - that the great challenge of the budget is implementation, and that the Government has made a commitment to make every effort to improve it. Even when we have the data that Euskadi is the autonomous community of Spain that has a better budget execution, and that in 2020 that implementation data of the consolidated budget of the Basque Government was 98,08 %. And it is not on salaries, uh, that the salaries of officials are not 98.08 % of the entire consolidated budget of the Basque Autonomous Community. And you also know that chapters 6, 7 and 8 of the Basque Government implemented 89% of the final budget and 92.3% of the initial budget. These are important figures, and as long as 100 % of implementation is not achieved, of course, they can be improved. But we must not lose sight of the fact that we are first talking about budget implementation, the implementation of forecasts; and, secondly, I have no doubt that all those who have had responsibilities in local or outsourced finances and who have been responsible for the preparation of budgets, we know that the main challenges to be faced are both the implementation of revenue and expenditure. And that is why, knowingly, the Basque Socialists consider that these percentages that I have given are an improved level of execution, it is true, but it is also a very important level of execution. And I say that if the execution of expenses is important, no less so is the budget execution of revenues. And that is why we believe and support the Councillor for Economics and Finance when in December he tried to explain to you, Mr Gordillo, that the revenues provided for in the Budgets Act of 2022 are prudent forecasts, so that they are not affected by the economic growth revisions that could be made, as has happened. Look, I regretted at the beginning of my speech that the first point of his motion makes it clear that the Basque People-Citizens Group has no alternative, no proposal to improve the budget execution of the Basque Government that they are so disgusted with. You say on this first point that "the Basque Government is urged to implement the necessary measures to achieve the full implementation of the investments collected in the budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community". Well, I repeat what Mr Azpiazu said, our great challenge is to execute, and the Government will make every effort to execute. You do not propose specific measures or even alternative measures or solutions. Thirdly, we are going to vote against it, because as far as the fate of the remnants in their request is concerned, it is already overtaken by the actions of the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. In its amendment of all the budgets discussed in December it even proposed to create a fund of 650 million for the relaunch of trade and industry with these remnants, to be implemented in the years 22, 23 and 24. And as I blamed him for leaving out sectors that had suffered the consequences of the pandemic, such as hospitality and tourism, because now, in order not to get into gardens or rare conflicts, they propose to put in place a plan to allocate the existing funds by the remnants for those sectors, in general, most affected by the crisis, including SMEs, self-employed and vulnerable consumers. Well, when I say that your proposal is overtaken by the action of the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, it is because the consequences of the pandemic from the outset and after the declaration of the state of emergency cause the Basque Government to adopt the first budgetary response measures in 2020. We are already talking about March, April and May 2020, a covid programme with nearly EUR 900 million is being set up. The management of public accounts favoured fiscal consolidation and maintained a cautious attitude towards possible additional changes that might have lower tax revenues. The economic and financial management of the Government has made it possible to deal with this pandemic by taking advantage of the suspension of the fiscal rules that Europe was proposing, taking advantage of the regulations of the programmes of the Government of Spain, and therefore it has been possible to use 1.5 billion euros to support those sectors that have suffered the greatest economic damage. For example, a number of support lines have been established and managed, such as aid to workers affected by temporary employment regulation dossiers through supplements and their corresponding extensions; financial support to SMEs and self-employed persons; postponement of reimbursements of aid and reimbursables; advance payment measures; aid for restructuring and re-launching firms in crisis; various special aid lines to self-employed persons, the agricultural, food and fisheries sectors; aid in the form of reduced financial costs and deficiencies in formal loans; aid to the catering sector, the trade, tourism or hospitality sector, with recent emphasis on night-time activities; aid to cultural professionals; to public-sector companies and cooperatives; aid to corporate solvency of enterprises, SMEs and self-employed persons, etc., etc. Nor do we forget, by the way, that we are still in the pandemic, with budgets for 2022, which in their covid programme seek 100% coverage in the field of health and education. Fourth argument. Mr Gordillo, we do not share your proposal to reduce fiscal pressure - and I want to highlight what we have agreed between Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists - and that is that we will use financial and fiscal policy for employment, economic development, entrepreneurship, innovation and social cohesion. And let me tell you that the Basque Socialists, since we are in the Basque institutions, have been working for an equitable, progressive and sufficient fiscal system that will enable us to sustain and strengthen our welfare state. Your fall in fiscal pressure, Mr Gordillo, which you propose, would not allow us to maintain or strengthen these public services; those that during this pandemic have been fundamental, have been essential for the majority of Basque citizens... [[End of tape 65]] [[beginning of tape 66.]] ... public services; those that during this pandemic have been fundamental, have been essential for the majority of Basque citizens. Your tax rebate, Mr Gordillo, would prevent the implementation of social policies that allow us to have a cohesive society under the principles of solidarity, justice and equal opportunities. And so, as soon as possible, we will be working on a tax reform that will allow us to have in Euskadi a tax system, a tax for an even fairer and even more supportive redistribution of income. And those are our reasons, already reiterated on other occasions, for voting against your motion; and that we again put forward today because your initiative did not raise a single novelty with regard to the budgetary debates that we have had in this House. And you have totum revolutionutum and you want to mix execution with European funds, with wages, with salaries for high government officials; an endless number of issues that make no more sense than the waste, than the embarullary, than the generation of smoke curtains. And when you talk about the issue of European funds you have to take on legitimacy, Mr Gordillo. You cannot go for life going to Brussels to boycott the European funds that involve the economic recovery, recovery and transformation of an entire country, including Euskadi, of an entire country, and to claim here that what we have to be interested in is only European funds that you want to carry out. That can't be. That can't be, or at least it shouldn't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, comrades, ladies and gentlemen, good ladies and gentlemen. The initiative presented today by the People's-Citizens Group, Mr Gordillo, could at least say that, as Mrs Corcuera said, it is outdated. You usually bring, and I will not deny, interesting debates; I must acknowledge it, although I also remember my university period, but this is not the case with today's debate. I see neither intellectual nor parliamentary interest, I see no interest in him. In fact, I've already commented on it in some conversation we've had. It is an issue, and Mrs Corcuera has already said it, and it is an issue that Mr Azpiazu came out and answered at the budget meeting in November; an issue that came out again at the negotiating meeting with you; an issue that we discussed in the budget debate last December; and, to end, in the last question to the Councillor, when he offered you data, facts, actions and ways of working for this government. But still, Mr Gordillo, for this debate brings us here again today, a debate, as I said, overtaken, debated and repeated. Leave it for next year's budget debate and do not miss an opportunity to attract to this debate today an opportunity to bring us more relevant issues of momentum to the government. I think you will excuse me, but my answer will be the same as I offered Mr Iturgaiz and yourself a month ago the budget debate. Then, in your reply, do not tell me that I repeat myself in my reply, that I am uninnovative, that today I have not been right, and, of course, that it suspends me. When you are the one who brings us here today, a debate that does not really intend to push the government into its work, in this case, to improve budget implementation. (...) I would like to know today's real objective, because if it were really to improve budget implementation - an aspect on which all the groups agree - today we should have been told how, a plan, a path, something. The title of his initiative is: "Measures necessary to be taken to ensure full implementation". What he urges are vagueness, without concrete measures, nothing, no plans. And you will say to me, "Of course, Mrs Berrojalbiz, that for that is what the government is for, to make the plans." And I will tell you, Mr Gordillo, that the Basque Government, in its ordinary operation, will try to improve its performance, as Mr Azpiazu has told you in the parliamentary debate before you without blushing. And assuming, as it cannot be otherwise, that the greatest volume of resources must be injected into society, and even more so in this pandemic situation, and improving its functioning day by day. And so far, all clear and shared in its essence. I think we all basically share that motivation. That is why your initiative could be fully supported with many nuances, or what we can also include in your amendment, because the Basque Government will try to implement the budget, as you say in your proposals or amendments, including investments; and always to the greatest extent possible, and always, as you say, with the aim of full implementation. Do not have any doubt about it, Mr Gordillo, because lack of will and capacity - which you urge in your document -, lack of will and capacity at all, but not at all; nor of this Government, nor of the public administration, nor of its professionals. Not one thing or the other. In this budget, I remind you, of more than 13 billion and 1,600 investment, all efforts will be made to implement it, because this depends on the reactivation and transformation of our country, from Euskadi. But from realism, from work, without politics-fiction, without noise, without politics of headlines or confrontation; I am also not surprised by your group's recent actions, as they commented, for example, with European funds. Without sterile debates that you propose to us today without any concrete action. The way is another, Mr Gordillo: of joint work, the impulse to the government, with new ideas or, at least, with some alternative other than what the government already proposes or commits itself to. Beraz, teenagers exekutatu beharrarekin, bath Gobernua bullzatu beharko genuke egiten edo konprometituta egiten ez dagoen horretan, ezta? Eta hau da ikusten ez doubina. We can also agree to collect EH, Mrs. Pindo, with the corrections introduced by the EH Collectors, to use the vanities of the budget to strengthen public services, health, education, and social policies being an axis. That's what your correction says, and that's what we think you're doing. And this budget in 2022, which we have this year, is also a reflection of... [[End of tape 66.]] [[LXIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... And that's what we think you're doing. And this budget in 2022, which we have this year, is also a reflection of it. And even in the budget club of EH, there's the reflection of the agreement: health is strengthened, social aids, and the aids of young men are strengthened. We have also a nearer example of pandemia with the use of stop-and-relations or deterrents in these years. In March 2020, the Covid program of 900 million came out. And the program could have come out for the maintenance of this government, because that stop was there. It has been possible to cope with this pandemic by using EUR 1.5 billion. Aid for various sectors, for those who have suffered the most and suffered the consequences of the pandemic. Innumerable lines of aid, financial support, supplement to ERTs, aid to hotels, the tourism sector, the social economy, 180 million to the Extraordinary Fund for the Revitalization of the Preferred Areas of Action. The institutions have made a huge effort to deal with the pandemic. In total, EUR 5.1 billion has been allocated to help families, businesses and self-employed people. And that has been done by implementing an expansive budget and also employing the treasury remnants that might have, those remnants that you so much criticize, Mr Gordillo, and also getting indebted. The Basque Government has resorted to its maximum allowable indebtedness to deal with this pandemic. The Basque Government incurred, and will do so, as it was able to see last Tuesday, in further indebtedness, consciously, premeditated and planned, in order to have more resources in case the pandemic situation so requires. Therefore, as you can see, all the parliamentary groups, although each with its own model and ideals, we all want, so I have listened to them in their speeches, that the implementation is the highest, that the greatest resources are available to deal with this pandemic using the remnants and resources that are available and that from this crisis we will come out more strengthened, reactivating and transforming Euskadi. But I do not think that the formula is this debate, where only the Basque Government has been pointed out in its action, without concrete proposals and, in passing, by mixing and mixing the fiscal debate. What makes me conclude that I really don't want it to be executed any more, but all he wants to do is lower taxes. But, in any case, proposals for improvement and momentum, all of them, Mr Gordillo. But sterile debates to confront us and place us at the starting point and debate of just two months ago, a debate of two months ago, without providing new solutions or more explanations or different explanations or alternatives to those already proposed a couple of months ago, there, there you will not find us in our parliamentary group. We... Our parliamentary group, Euzko Abertzaleak, will support and urge this Government to work towards improving our well-being, Euskadi. And the initiatives that meet that goal will be welcomed, as we have always done. We have many challenges ahead for those who need to work, and I hope that we will do so from collaboration. We have a lot of work and an extraordinary opportunity with the European funds and with the Euskadi Next investment programme, which define the priorities for the transformation of the Basque economy, which includes investments of EUR 18 billion. Hau da egin beharreko bidea. These two last... For the past two years, we've been marked by ranges, and also by the Public Administration and his ways, because we're living a reality we've never known before. But, in front of that, we have to keep working, Mr. Gordillo, on the line. And I, again, give you my hand to take that road. He used to say Finucial Times and The Foreign Policy Center, didn't he? that this was the establishment of the clabes between the Eucade and the value of the value, and that of the clabes between the continual distribution of the models of life and the political co-workership of society. that is to say, he valued the co-workership of all the agents. And this is our example, the example of EAJ, the example of this sect of Parliament of the Eubertians. And in this way, if you like, Mr. Gordillo, in concert, positively, you will find us there, but not in some such discussions. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on the answers, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This is a very enriching debate. Above all, I believe that the Basque Parliament is the only parliament where it is not that the groups of the government make, that is, opposition to the opposition, that the opposition is already opposing each other as well. I think he's stayed quite... I really liked Mr Soto's speech, which has been right all the time, but in the end he says no. I am right in all the data - which are not mine, which are from the Basque Government - and then because it costs man, it costs man, I believe, and his group to vote in favour. So, if you think so, I will propose, to you and to the President, that yours, your amendment, be voted on by points. And so we can vote in favour of the first point, which is a literal copy of our first point, so at least that point because it will receive some more support in this House. And that's how we'll do it. Sure, you guys mix things up. I mean, I think there is a consensus. In spite of the tone, because I understand that EH Bildu, Elkarrekin Podemos and such it is difficult to give reason to us, I understand it, I understand it it is hard for them to give us reason. It's okay that you don't give us the reason. But, of course, they share, in the end, the underlying problem, and that is that there is a problem with the lack of implementation in investments. For what is then used that remnant, well, there I think we can discuss, and you can discuss, and you can counter opinions, you can even reach certain agreements. But, man, I think it's interesting, at least, to send a message that... Look, it's the Basque government that recognizes it. It is that when the Economics Councilor himself, who is responsible, that he is not the culprit, eye, is responsible, because in the end it is the other departments that execute it, but when the Councilor himself is saying that it is that of the 1.6 billion, which is like the slogan of this year's budget, he says that it will not reach 50%, the opposition, in this case our group, says: "Hey, what is this, cachondeo? And he says, "No. It's just that you, and so on, and I don't know what..."... [[End of tape 67]] [[68. Start of tape]] ... This year it says, it's not going to reach 50%. The opposition, in this case our group, says: "Hey. What's this, hotshot?". And he says, "No, it's that you, and so on, and I don't know what, and the PP, and the replacement rates..." And then, Mrs. Corcuera tells me that if I make a totum revolutum and such, and well, anyway; it's okay. Well, I, the debate, was curious to hear Mrs Pinedo, but, well, I understand that the budgetary agreement that you have with the Basque Government also sometimes implies having to defend the indefensible, right?, which is this: that is, that there is a problem with implementation, and that, therefore, if there is a problem with implementation I think the first thing is to recognize it. Hey, then, from there, you can argue. Look, it's just, we think it's better to keep accumulating money and saving it for other things. Well, let's use the money on this other thing. Well, okay, I do think that what has to be a budget above all is adjusted to what its function is. Because collecting for collection, when then it is - I insist - systematically unable to execute these amounts, it does not seem to me the most appropriate. And Mrs Corcuera complained many times that we have dealt with this issue many times, and so on. It's just, look, I don't have a choice anymore, because the counselor is working on doing the same thing... and one year, and another, and another... The man commits himself, and then he puts me in a situation, therefore, that I also have to do it. I'm sorry if it bothers you, but, well, it's okay, I'll keep doing it. And besides, I'll try to convince her, and if, listen, my arguments don't convince her, I will do the best I can. What I won't do is mix; when the numbers, they have no choice but to recognize it, I mix all the games. "Well, it's just that by adding everything, everything, everything..." Look, we've already said that. Man, he said, "Part six, seven, and eight came to ninety and so many for a hundred..." Hey, the investment game; don't mix the... "No, it's just that the six, seven, eight has arrived..." Hey, we know what the implementation figures are. But, well, the truth is that the opposition groups have managed to get dragged away by the groups that support the government... except for us, the rest of the opposition groups... It has been dragged by the groups that support the Government, and we could almost conclude as, by quoting an illustrious communist, (...), the one who was the historic secretary general of the French Communist Party, right?, when asked about what seemed to him to have happened in the countries of the East and such with communism. And he said: (...). Overall positive result. Well, then, there's a positive overall result. And I, Mrs Berrojalbiz, truly promise you, will strive to bring you more, more interesting debates. This year's budget debate will certainly have it, because we will have the same problems again. And, man, I think it's a move to the government. And besides, very concrete. I put it on a tray for the government. I have put it on a tray, which is to apply the order you plan to apply for European funds for the rest of the budget. That is very easy to do; there you have a concrete measure. The thing is, it makes me feel like they're getting used to... Of course, that's how we get the bills that the government brings us, isn't it? Looks like they want us to rewrite the "pe-to-pa" law. Hear, then, a move to the government is: "Hey, do something about the issue of budget implementation." "No, it just has to be more concrete." "Well, okay," they're more specific. "No, that's not how I like it." And I know you're gonna tell me no, but, man, don't deny me the evidence, because, man, the data is the data. Anyway, I encourage you, Mrs Berrojalbiz, to present a PNL, and let me see if I can get you a little bit of style, and at least I can get you a little bit of style and that's how you like PNL more than I tell you to. In any case, as I said, we will vote in favour of ours. And we will also vote in favour of the first item by Elkarrekin Podemos, which has attracted us very much to its wording and we believe that it is very positive and beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u142	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr Gordillo, our parliamentary group has no problem in giving them reason, as long as they have it, which is a rather important hue. So, to say that in one of the parts - and I have also said this in the speech I made, in one of the parts - of your proposal we agree; indeed, it is practically, indeed, what is at our number one point in the amendment to the whole, and it is that we must push the Government's action towards full implementation of the investments raised in the budget. That is to say, we fully agree on that, and I believe that it has also been evidence that not only we, but practically the whole of the House, agree with that assessment. The problem is what comes next. And of course, what comes next is... and I'm not gonna stick to his intervention, because if I had to stick to it... Of course, he talked about European funds, about fiscal policy, about... So, I want to say that there were a lot of nuances to do there, and why we cannot vote in favour of it, but in your own text you come to say that we have to go in the direction of, to the extent that those items are not executed, let us lower the fiscal pressure, and let it remain in the pockets of the citizenry, and in this case, probably, of whoever else has, the money that is not executed. And that's where we can't agree. As a matter of fact, in my first speech I raised it. It is not that we agree only with the necessary implementation and implementation of the projects in the budget, but that we have even discussed with the parliamentary groups supporting the Government that it should go further in terms of its borrowing capacity, and that the reference rate in the deficit agreed in the Joint Committee should not be what it has been, but should be even more. That is to say, beyond even the development and implementation of what is in the budget, we believe that even more public resources should be allocated for the administration to lead the country's economic recovery from the public. And, therefore, we do not agree on that either. We are grateful that the first of the points, which is basically the first of its initiative, will be shared and voted in favour. In any case, of course, I understand why the following two are not going to vote, which is where there are tangible differences, and which I have already explained in my first speech and now. So do not say that we are opposed to the opposition, but that it is hardly compatible with its position with regard to budget implementation and what it means to have a remnant of what we are proposing, because it is not the same. Nor is it the same as you put forward in terms of fiscal policy with what our parliamentary group has been putting forward over the years. So, it's... [[68. End of tape]] [[Start of tape 69.]] ... What you are proposing in terms of fiscal policy, with what our parliamentary group has been proposing over the years. So, it's incompatible in that sense. When you want to coordinate in the exercise of opposition, do so, to see if in anything, just like that, we can share some element. Of course, but if you have not even done the exercise of contacting us in the previous days, given that we have tabled an amendment in its entirety, we would hardly agree even that, not even the first point. Then... In any event, I would like to thank you for your position on our first point, and of course open to the vote by points and to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u144	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the EH Group must not speak a word. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u145	Thank you, President. Let us see, Mr Gordillo, you mentioned in your speech that you were going to give us information, that you were going to give us arguments and that you were going to propose measures. I of the data and the arguments... it's your business, but, look, for the measures it seems to me to be a bit of a mess, because you talk about using, how to use the remnants in your initiative, but not how to avoid them, not how to avoid budget failure. That is why he also wants to vote on the first point of Elkarrekin Podemos. Don't cheat on the lonely; or at least, really, don't make us swallow with these things. Look, you said "it only executes more than 90% on salaries." It's not true, and you know it, it's not true. What I am asking you to do - because I consider you to be a rigorous man on these issues of economics and wealth - is that, in the end, it should not be so distorted, because it is not worth it, is it not? You said "aid must be returned, because it is not being implemented either." For you it is not executed in investment, it is executed too much in current expenditure, but then, in your amendments to the whole or in your partial amendments to the budgets for 2022, it poses much more current expenditure and also poses many more investments. So, what are you playing at? What are you playing at? Because it's absolutely illogical what you're saying or posing. It said "deputies collect much more to then use it in whatever you know what." No, no, if you are yourself all day asking the government to "review the macroeconomic picture, review the forecasts", as if you are the only one who thinks that the forecasts should be reviewed, and you have already been told when they should be reviewed. Therefore, these excesses of remnants, in addition to strengthening and maintaining public services, also serve those circumstances where economic forecasts need to be revised downwards. It seems like he's lying to you about this, really, I mean... But good. "With the Law of Contributions they lose their seats." That's not true. That's not true. He had already been specifically answered that the Act on Contributions did not reduce the forecasts of the deputies or the collection or management of that collection. You spoke of "Deparlamentarization of economic debate". Well, let me see, and let me have some irony, but... I understand that you are very recent in this from passing on to the People's Party, but if the People's Party is something, it is outlawist. And, listen, economic debates and economic debates and budgetary debates are also on the General Councils, and that is also parliament, and there the People's Party-Citizens also has its parliamentary representatives. There is therefore no deparlamentarization here; on the contrary, there is debate here to the point of satiety on economic and financial matters. And you were saying, right?, you're continually with the yes, no, and quite the opposite. Budgets 2022 that duplicate investments, that are not going to be implemented, that there is a lot of current expenditure, therefore, we spend at full hands, which you also said in your amendment to the whole. Look, I would ask the Basque-Citizen People's Group to do less tax populism and to stop playing to pretend one thing and the other; because you can't pretend to have more public spending with less public revenue; because you can't pretend to have more public administration without public revenue; because you can't pretend to have more and better public services with less public revenue; because you can't pretend to have more social policies in place with more services to citizens – that citizenship, which is also the most vulnerable – without public revenue. Therefore, less to keep money in each one's pocket, that this is not solidarity or redistributive justice, and more to proclaim that income is to make solidarity, to make it equitable, to have a progressive, progressive fiscal policy, and that, moreover, it serves those public services that we have used in a pandemic, unfortunately, we have had to use all here, our acquaintances and our families. Thanks to this fiscal policy, we have had a public health service for all, for those who had economic opportunities and for those who did not have them. That is why we have had vaccines, thanks to that tax policy and income, and without boycotting the European funds, which have also served to have enough money for the vaccination of all Spanish citizens. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gordillo, I think you should look at whether your political thinking comes to us and tells us "execute more", when you have always been to do the least public spending better. The Law of Contributions, "that more money be given to the outlaws and less to the Basque Government", when you are more of centralizing the powers. So, check your speech a little, because I don't think it fits your ideals very well. In any case, and going back to what you were telling me, I confess, I have already told you on some occasion, I confess, Mr. Gordillo, that with you and with this subject... [[End of tape 69]] [[Beginning of tape 70.]] ... going back to what you were saying to me, I confess, I have already told you on some occasion, I confess, Mr Gordillo, that with you and with this subject I have the feeling of living the day of the marmot; because as much as the advisor, our group, the Basque Socialist Group, we explain to you, today even the parties Podemos, Euskal Herria Bildu, we explain to you every two weeks the origin of the remnants - which is the result of the meditative issue of the debt and not of the default - and our levels of execution, you repeat, repeat and repeat the same thing. Now that for investments you only have to change Chapter 6; not Chapters 7 and 8, when you know they are capital transfers. And so week after week, I get that feeling. The adviser was the first to say that the great challenge in the budget is implementation. You know that in that we agree and agree with the government. But, I don't know, review the budget, review the items, the plans, the programmes, and make some concrete point that you think you need to improve on some particular issue; but don't continue with this canteen with ambiguous data, mixing figures. Because that's taken me to do, or it's going to take me to do something I didn't want to do, and it was getting into the data, because I think they're boring a lot, but I'm going to do it because I think it's necessary. Remaining. A positive part in your speech, that you are gradually adjusting the number of remnants; of the remaining 1 billion that launched a couple of months, 1 billion, so, lightly, with little precision, you diving in the numbers realize that, aiba, they are also less. Well, indeed, Mr. Gordillo. That's the first one, it's about 600 million. And this is the figure of the remaining because the Basque Government has been able to use more than EUR 400 million of the remaining funds for investments and aid to the sectors most affected by the pandemic. Therefore, as you see, it is not the 1 billion that were neither kept in a drawer, nor are they a consequence of the inexecution, but rather of the planned indebtedness of the Government. That's the first thing. Secondly, the accuracy of budgetary revenue forecasts. And it's not going to be me anymore, it's not going to be me telling you that the forecasts are realistic and that they're made from prudence, that's what I told you in December in our budget debate. And I argued it with figures. On this occasion, I refer to the FEDEA report, specifically by Manuel Díaz and Carmen Marín, of the Fundación de Estudios de Economía Aplicada, which concludes that by analysing the latest figures up to 2019 in this report, most of the autonomous communities significantly overvalue their 2019 revenues. And so they did until that date, until 2019, with some exception of some year. Do you know who was not among those autonomous communities with imprecise estimates? You know who? There were neither Euskadi nor Navarra. But do you know who they were and, therefore, which autonomous communities do overestimate budgetary revenues according to this report? Let's see if she's all right. Castile and León, Madrid, Galicia and most of the autonomous communities, but not Euskadi. Therefore, speak, please, with property; to overvalue nothing, precisions all that can be. And third: the budget implementation figures. Implementation of the consolidated budget in Euskadi - according to the latest figures published - 98 per cent. And now I'm going to start comparing myself with other territories. For the total of autonomous communities, 94 % Euskadi four more points; Castile and Leon, 96 % Euskadi two more points; Galicia 94 % Euskadi four more points; Madrid 93 % Euskadi five more points. And in investments, Euskadi 89%. And if I take the last few years, those you have used in your speech, in 2016 in investments, a 77; in 2017, a 75; in 2018, a 89; in 2019, a 90.72; and in 2020, a 88.74. And this 89% of executions in investments, chapters 6, 7 and 8, in Euskadi we can compare it if you want to also with the execution of 75% in the total of the autonomous communities, and with, for example, 82% in Castile and León, Euskadi seven more points in investments; 81% in Galicia, Euskadi eight more points; and 78% in Madrid, Euskadi 11 more points of execution in investments. And these are the figures that there are, data from the ministry; that have nothing to do with your speech, Mr. Gordillo. And I'm not saying we don't have to keep working, because we do have to keep working, we have to improve the execution, yes. Working in common, yes, but moving away from criticism and attack because yes. Because these figures show that the attack was not necessary today. And for this reason, as I said in my first speech, we have reached out to them to reverse this attitude. Collaboration, offer, alternatives, undistorted ideas, without mixing debates like today, mixing non-execution with the remnants, with the reduction of fiscal pressure. A simple reading, which I, moreover, did not expect from you, knowing that budgetary management is much more complex, and even more knowing of the rigorous, committed good management, with much effort from this Government. Knowing also that the fiscal pressure in Euskadi is efficient and that it makes us have the essential public services guaranteed, health, education and social protection...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u148	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u149	... with an equitable, progressive and sufficient tax system. And that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is far from yours. So, as I said on the first day shift, you'll find us at work, and we'll be here for as long as you need. .). Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u150	Thank you. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Gordillo Peérez's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters 7; the opponents are 66. Abstations, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u151	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzer's full-line correction. We'll vote for it in points. You can vote for the first point. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 12; contrarys, 40; Abstations, 21. white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u152	... [[End of tape 70]] [[Start of tape 71.]] ... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 12; contrarys, 40; Abstations, 21. white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u153	So it's not accepted. We'll vote for two and three points. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters, 6; contraries, 46; Abstations, 21. white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u154	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the full-correction of the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 21; oppositions, 46; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-10.u155	Not accepted. And since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at six-and-thirty.
