ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. I'm warning you, number six, it's left for another. First point in theme list: "The question is that the members of the staff of the Society of Gorka Álvarez Martínez Eubert are made to the head of the Board of Education, the main challenges of EHU's internationalization." Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u1	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We've been living a lot of changes in years. One of them is in the field of work and in relation to the world of education. The changes you've been living in this research require a constant adaptation to the educational needs of the firm, and from that line, five years ago, the Board of Education introduced the First School Company to 2017-2022 pass. Through this first strategy, Basque University-Company sought, among other things, to promote the role of the Basque university system as a dynamism and transformator of Euskadi, as an agent to do these tasks, and also, with the aim of promoting innovation, internationalization, research and Basque talent in the international framework. Now, five years later, we can say that that bet that was made for the internationalization of the Basque university system is a reality. So much so that we can identify it in different indicators, such as the international mentions obtained by our universities, the international projects launched by the universities of the Basque university system, the mobility projects promoted by the Department of Education or the dual and international degrees. Therefore, putting what has been done in value, and it has been observed that this very week even the evaluation of this strategy has been made, we would like to discuss the following question to you, Mr. Bilar; What are the main challenges from now on in the internationalization field in the university level? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u2	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. In the name of the next song, Mr Bilarz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u3	Mr. President of the legislature, chiefs, members of the legislature, good morning, Mr. Álvarez. First of all, Euscal University State University has served as a means of international cooperation, and I'd like to admit that the road was a precursor, and Erasmus started ahead of his program. That's the result of international schemes and strategys with all of our colleges. Unibertsitate gehi enterprise, Unibertsitate Planaren bidez garatzen den esparru bat da. Eta estezzken honetan aurkeztu genuine duel bost urte onartutako strategy horren ebaluazia. The Plan of the University System has follow-up actions and indicators in the field of internationalization and research of excellence in its area of international collaboration. The next Plan 2026 will have a greater impact on the process of internationalization from a dual perspective. On the one hand, internationalization focused on the university community in Euskadi. On the other hand, internationalization focused on the impact of our universities abroad. The results on the activities that have been moved, tell us the course. One. Although the situation has been difficult, the international moving programs have been active during pandemia. All the students 5,238 have participated in the last two studies. Two. Two of the three projects of the Eascal University are now a confession to the European Committee. In particular, he has obtained a statement from the project of UUPV-EHULIGHT with the other nine university. The Destruction University has received a statement from the UNIC project along with the eight other European colleges. And the Mondragon University (four dui? ) The project has been entered by the European proposal. Three. We've encouraged the Aquitania New-Euskadi-Nafarro-We've pushed a net of 26 universityes and centers. In the same Illus, we have four labs beyond the border through Euscampus excellent apusis. Four. The whole thing is that they're running double-timulation International University... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... Through the shampoo. Lau. Guztira 63 title bikoitz dual jarri will say martxan Naziarteko Unibertsitateekin. Five. In Euskadi we have 14 official titles recognized with the label Erasmus Mundus. UPV/EHU is the state university with a higher number of masters with this recognition. These five years we have invested 8.5 million euros in the International Mobility Fellowship program, and a total of 14,932 students have been mobilized with ERASMUS programs and other destinations. We have also increased international collaboration in the field of research. The next Basque strategy University+Company 2026 represents a new impetus to this vision in which we have incorporated the following specific objectives: to expand our international networks, to internationalize our casteries and dual degrees with international profile, and to promote research of excellence and the Basque Country strategy to respond to talent needs in priority areas. The objective of internationalization is a priority, including college and priority in the company world. We have a strong foundation, a high degree of experience and agreement to continue to promote and improve our enterprises on this constant road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question of Zaz de Egilillaz Ramos, the parliamentary laws of the EH Collectations of the Earth, of Housing, and of the chief department of Transportation, as to the efficiency of the Castile program." Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u5	Yes, thank you, Chief. With your permission, I'll ask from the first question. Good morning Chief Arriola. As we know, it's one of the most important programs in the world that EukMOD would encourage the production of young people, and it's already a trader. But if you'd examined the program and seen it, would you say that it's really effective?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u7	Good morning, Madam President. Mrs Saez de Egilaz, the GazteLagun programme is effective. It is also a reference programme which has served as a basis for the development of similar aid by various administrations, such as the Government of Spain and a large number of municipalities in the Basque Country. Although certainly under less advantageous conditions than Gaztelagun.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u8	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u9	Yes, thank you very much again, Chief. Gazteon lagun izan nahi two program batikin hitz-joko bat egin duzue Jaurlaritzatik. Beast breeding bath bat da, eta guretzat garrantzizkoa hori da: emantzipatzeko program eraginkorra da, edo gobernu honek gasteekin zer egon ez dakiela kontutan izanda beast partxe bat besterik ez da? Gaztelagun is that Basque government star program for young people. Whatever it takes to sell, whatever it takes. That comes out to us all in the ads lately a lot, propaganda of the good, really good. But has no one bothered to seek answers to the lack of effectiveness for youth emancipation? Yes, we'll say it's very efficient. First of all, because the goals I made weren't made. He said he wanted to get to 6,000 young people for the year 2021, so he only came to 4,000 young people. 4,000 people for three years. It's born with the goal to give young people first. But look, thanks to the last change, 36 years ago, he's up here to get help. It's impossible to pay a private rent in our cities and villages, by the way that you're hired and paid off. And what will become of this, chief physician of the Arrians? That help you called a young friend to pay for the rent even for 50 years? We've got a big, expensive housing problem, and you know that. Instead of accepting it, you go on and on until the infinite is over. Instead of accepting the gaps in your pretty ones. Besides, it's only between 18 and 36 years of help, and we know the conditions of life for an 18-year-old. And a 35 or 36-year-old person doesn't look the same. That's why we see that during 18 and 23, the request data is outrageous. And what do you say about the maximum limits of the rent? Who rents the apartment in Donostian 775 euros? It's almost impossible. What is happening with the basic right to housing is already unsustainable, insufferable. It is not normal that in the face of this piece of structural problem, it is not yet acting forcefully, and patches and patches continue to be put on until the wound blood and can no longer be done. The greatest problem here is the philosophy of the program, because the New Year's rent is a help to pay for the prior. The private rent market goes up and up, only growing. And my young friend, he's not a young man's help, because he's a live-handed scholarship. It's not a charity support, it's just that the private rent market is unlimited, it's just a joke in this case. That same young man comes from the failure of a whole domestic policy. He was born to lose, nothing to change. We young men shouldn't ask for a friend of Castile, nor have to go on paying for high rents and shootings. Because the rents should be limited to the Urgente. We young people shouldn't ask for a friend of Castile because we should be able to live on social rents from public institutions. I need you to put some bold, efficient measurements on the eucalyptic side. And it's urgent, you can't wait any longer. We young men don't content themselves with a parrot. We'll listen to our young friends on the radio, on TV and everywhere. But the idyllic situation that you want to sell doesn't exist. We're in emergency housing, Chief Arriola. Open your eyes for once, and mark a path to guarantee young people's rights of housing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... It's really the right to guarantee the housing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u12	Mrs Saez de Egilaz, as you well know, my department devotes preferential attention to young people in the area of housing. And, in fact, in recent years we have put in place a battery of specific measures for this group, and we have done so because we are aware of their difficulties. This preferential attention is reflected in the boost to accommodation facilities, the reservation of a quota for young people in the award of public housing for rent and the implementation of an income support programme, the Gaztelagun programme. He was born as a pilot program. And throughout its three years of existence Gaztelagun has been adjusting to improve its performance and responsiveness. All new programs require time to settle down. But in just three years, and of them two pandemics, Gaztelagun has become a structural aid at the same level as the rest of housing benefits. And that has been the case because this Government has seen the potential and usefulness of this programme. Gaztelagun is also an aid that has been heard by the Basque Youth Council and is in line with its approaches. In his first three years he has helped a little more than 4,000 people. You may find few of them to you, but they are young people who otherwise would hardly have been able to cope with the payment of rent. And, indeed, although to forecast the total cost of the program in 2019 we estimate that in three years we could reach 6,000 recipients, we have met all the demand. Because the aid is received by all people who meet the requirements, since in this program there is no competitive competition and no one is left out. As I tell you, Gaztelagun has become a young reference aid. But we must not forget that this one lives in Euskadi with other aids also received by young people in the field of housing. Gaztelagun's recipients, who are currently 2,700, have to be added to 5,700 under 35 years of age who receive supplementary or economic housing benefits, while 2,700 live in a sheltered rental home or provide housing. That is to say, at present in Euskadi more than 11,000 young people have either a social rental flat or a government help to cope with the payment of their home rent. We believe that Gaztelagun plays a very valuable role because it provides stability and security and helps to make decisions with guarantees. And we intend to continue to improve their conditions to reach a greater number of young people on the basis of the new order, which is published today precisely in the Bulletin, which brings substantial improvements, such as the extension of income to apply for aid and the abolition of their temporality and its extension until they reach the age of 36. You and I have had the opportunity to discuss this issue more than once. And I am convinced that in his internal affairs he shares with me that Gaztelagun is a good program. Perhaps the only thing I regret, or perhaps what gives you a bit of anger, is that the idea hasn't occurred to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u13	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Ekain Rico Razama, a member of the team of law enforcement members of the second vice presidents and the Chief of Staff and Empedugus, to maintain socialization and incomes concerning the phase of the law of the euscal system." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u14	Thank you, Madam President. If we know anything about the Socialists, it is the importance of social protection to ensure the progress of our country and greater social cohesion. And all this, as you well know, Mrs Vicelehendakari, has become more evident throughout this pandemic. The social shield put in place by the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, and the measures that we have taken here in this same sense from the Basque Government have not only succeeded in ensuring that thousands of citizens have their needs guaranteed in the worst of this crisis, but also laid the foundations for the economic and social recovery scenario that we are currently experiencing. And the good data on the employment that we have known a few days ago are exactly what comes to ratify this. And it is that, as you know, the Socialists and the Socialists have been absolutely invested in the economic recovery and employment of our country. But we have always made it clear that this recovery must be fair and that, therefore, there is only one way, which is to ensure that no one is left behind. 30 years ago here in Euskadi, we were pioneers in using our self-government to better protect the worst people who are going through it. And together we have managed to demonstrate that our Basque system of protection is the best social investment we can make. And the Socialists and the Socialists want this to remain so, but with a more agile, more effective, more modern and also reinforced model with minimum vital income. And that was our commitment, the one that led to the government agreement. And that is why, Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, it has been a year since we first met the draft of the preliminary draft law, and once the minimum income is transferred, we want to ask you what is the status of the processing of this new law of the system of income guarantee and inclusion in Euskadi. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u15	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, the law has ended its internal progress, and we'll accept it next Tuesday's Council. Then it will begin with the time when consenting with the parliamentary groups, in order to expand a model of success, to protect the minors and pensioners, to ease their claims, to make matters easier for those who are in danger.... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... To open it, to protect the elderly and pensioners, to ease the natures, to make matters easier for those who are in danger, to show confidence in the people, and to be strictly attentive to the administration of public money. After all, it is open to the people to act with all the groups in which they share the security of threats, and to the people that the best assurance is that no one is behind them. Yesterday this House was debating other formulas to ensure the protection of the most vulnerable. He did so on the basis of a citizen's initiative, and a majority decided that the model to follow was the one that had already been advanced to them by this Government since the beginning of the legislature. Today, the Government, having respected all the times and all the procedures and reports that had been requested of it, is in a position to confirm that next Tuesday we will bring, we will adopt, in the Governing Council, this law, and Parliament will have a vocation of consensus and deeply strategic for Euskadi. Because, in a context of profound transformation of our society, we want to generate progress, generate quality employment and generate a safety net for those who go through any difficulties. That's why I'm here. Law will keep the lines already advanced a year ago. It is going to offer a more agile, modern and much clearer service, and it is going to provide better coverage for older persons, pensioners or households where there are minors, for abused women or victims of trafficking, for persons with disabilities, for refugees, and also for victims of terrorism who were once forced into exile and who want to return. What we have done at this time is to respond to the suggestions that have made it possible to improve the initial model that we put forward, and I assure you that they are numerous and from the most diverse areas, especially those who work directly with the most vulnerable people. This demonstrates the ability to arm a common soil at the hands of society on which to work. And we have also polished that integration of minimum living income, once we have managed to agree between the two governments on the transfer and their integration into Lanbide, as I announced a month ago. We will have time to go into the details, because my intention is to come to this Parliament as soon as possible, as quickly as possible, to start this debate in this House. But I do want to keep the effort, this effort that we have been developing at this time to solve all the threats that have shaken our revenue guarantee model. I would like to call for this ability to go against different social actors and the third sector, to set the course, and also the ability to agree between the governments of Spain and Euskadi to make this law possible today, because it has not been easy at all. And right now it is good to remember: our welfare system, our social protection system, is a success that is constantly under threat. There are those who do not want it to exist, who do not support minimum living income and who do not support income guarantee income or our own self-government. They cast those fears at the most vulnerable, allowing the public policies of governments to be overshadowed. Therefore, in the face of this undisguised threat, I do advance you that my department is going to seek the commitment of those groups that believe, like us, that the most vulnerable deserve a quick and better response, which is what we want to propose through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "The members of the Podemos IU team made to the president about the reaction of the articulate text of the education law." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u18	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief. Last week, even in the last few days, we had an interview with you on account of what you had done to listen to, and you said that before summer your department expected to have an articulate text about the law of education already. Klaro, I must tell you, we were surprised. We're in May, summer's back, and then we feel like you said something urgent... At least we are not in a hurry to reach the law of such articulate text, and I dare say that neither we nor all the operators who make for the public school have any such haste. And we wouldn't want it if we signed the deal from −, yes, we wouldn't want− to come in this hurry from the department. And because of all this, this is the question which I ask of you in the name of my team or of my team: When will the department, your bureau, have your articulate text ready to come to Parliament for discussion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u20	Mrs. President of the Parliament, Mrs. Hatsies. We're just filling out all the transparency that you promised me. As you know, the idea of education law was a purpose for the next year in the program of fun and in the law calendar. In the course of the year of education, when we met with an agreement between the community and the team, we decided to advance that law plan for a year. So our commitment is to accept the law plan this year and send it to this legislature. The steps you've made so far have been solid. On the 14th of October, last year, it was decided to form a team of jobs at the Board of Education in this Parliament. On the 7th of April, the basic arrangement of making eroscal education was agreed with a comprehensive consent, and on the following day, on April 8th, we signed the order that the procedure was to prepare for the law of education. We wish to have a degree of participation and agreement which we have hitherto obtained, and which, considering these conditions, we intend to assume the intention of a law for autumn, and to keep our commitment to this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours. [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Ma'am, you're the one who hates me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u23	Autumn time... This, then, articulate text, which will present the first articulate text, or what will be done before summer? First draft? A prejugation? A project? Or what is it? I'm asking you this because, well, on one hand, we... As you know, we agreed with that, and decided to form a follower of the committee, to see how the agreement was developing. And if there be any text articulated for the summer, I do not know whether the public, or whether it is still private or something, we signers, what sort of intervention we shall have in that text, and that text. I don't know if we'll have time to read that text, to make our contribution in that text; I don't know where our paper is placed. So, and that's what I'm telling you, that's for me...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u24	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u25	...I'd like to be enlightened. On the other hand, you said, it was a great deal of agreement to sign this agreement. And we, in order to enter into this agreement, asked particularly to put particular things in this agreement, which was one of our conditions. And so far as they are satisfied with particular things, the legitimateness of the agreement will be preserved. Klaro, I'm telling you, we've just heard about recently that a signed agreement with Google, a co-worker's pact, may be said that it's not compatible with the signed one. And then, well, one of my teammates will have a chance of asking the question directly, and you will have the opportunity to answer it, but, as I have said, it is the legitimateness and possibility of the agreement in accordance with the concrete things of agreement. With this we have often spoken, two decrees follow, two very important decrees: of the planning and of the treaty. These facts are of great importance, that by their means some of the things which have been so important and so central are decided for us; for it is the strength and struggle with the segregation of the public school. And therefore we would like to know also what these decrees are about this ship, where they are, what place they will take, about the law which suddenly stopped at a second stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u27	Gorrotxategi andrea, we have a basic agreement that has achieved broad and majority support in this Parliament and also among the educational community. It has been the result of shared work in a transparent and open process of dialogue, participation and consensus. Our path is to maintain this same working methodology. In this respect, the parliamentary presentation itself stated that the conclusions will be forwarded to the Department of Education of the Basque Government to form the basis for the future Euskadi Education Act. The drafting process of the articulated text is under way and is regulated by the Councillor's Order, adopted on 8 April, which initiates the procedure for the preparation of the preliminary draft education law. We maintain transparency and openness and, in fact, this administrative procedure is available to all citizens in the Legegune area. Once the first draft of the preliminary draft law has been drafted, it shall be submitted for prior approval. After prior approval, the draft legislation will be referred to five different areas for contrast: first, to the Basque Parliament pursuant to section 56.1 of the Government Act, for the purpose of its knowledge by the parliamentary groups; second, it will be republished in the Legegunea collaborative space; third, it will be transferred to the government departments for participation and consultation, in accordance with the General Provisions Procedure Act; fourth, it will be subject to the procedure of participation and consultation to other public administrations; and fifth, it will be subject to the procedure of hearing and public information. Education is a country objective, and the Government will prioritise the maintenance of consensus achieved to date. There is a lot of work ahead of which we will continue to see with absolute transparency, and we will maintain the spaces for dialogue and collaboration with the aim of fulfilling our commitment to this House. Like you said, it worked a lot, it worked hard, and that's where we made some commitments. And we will keep these commitments. We'll talk about it in a few minutes. It'll be called to talk about these two decrees you've just mentioned. We've also got a calendar later, and you know how we've already asked for a presentation, which will either take place for June 20, or at least before this dispute is over, and you can count on how the next 12 years will be designed and how they'll develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Five point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Laura Garrido Knörorre, the popular team of the Ciudads, the first member of the vice president and head of the Security Department, about the Esquies of Estination and the editor of Meteorology." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. President, chief of departments, congressman, Mr. Erkorek. Last week we met the resignation of the official, the director of the Directorate of Emergency and Meteorology of the Basque Government, after a year in office and also at the same time spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party in the City of Galdakao. The reason for these resignations seems to lie in the open judicial investigation following the detection of possible irregularities in his management at the head of the DYA when he was responsible; in particular, the commission of several crimes is investigated. You will understand, Mr. Counsellor, that this news raises many doubts about the suitability of people in public office, as is the case with a person in charge of an essential service such as Emergency and Meteorology. That is why we ask you, Mr. Counsellor: what criteria have been followed in this case for the election of this person to head a service of the Directorate of Emergency Management and Meteorology of the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u30	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Reply... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... at the head of a service of the Directorate of Emergency Management and Meteorology of the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u31	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u32	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea, silburuok, legebiltzarkideok, egun on guztioi. Mrs Garrido, when the appointment of this person took place in March last year, in fact, she had a career of more than 25 years working in the field of emergencies. I believe that it met, objectively, the right conditions for the performance of the position. This circumstance does not always occur, that someone who is appointed for a very defined sectoral position has such a long history working in the same specific field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u33	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u34	Thank you, Mr Erkoreka. Less evil that it took 25 years of extended career to occupy, and have sufficient merits to occupy this position, but there has not been the resignation of any person. This person, as you say, had 25 years of extended career in a position that could come well for him to take over the responsibility of the Directorate of Meteorology and the Meteorology of Emergency and Meteorology Service, but apart he is not just any person. This person has held positions of responsibility in the Basque Nationalist Party at Galdakao City Hall, and in the last elections he ran as a candidate, and was a spokesperson. In addition, he even won the elections, but the pacts that followed the elections, he was not mayor; that is, he could have even been mayor of Galdakao City Hall. I do not know, Mr Erkoreka, whether you and Mr Urkullu's government want to minimize what has happened and make it less important for you to be a person of the Basque Nationalist Party, because here it seems that because you are of the Basque Nationalist Party, coming from a batzoki, some are exempt from certain things. And what would have happened if it had been from another party, it would have been a scandal? The truth is that he was assigned to hold a position of responsibility, as you say, with 25 years of career, thinking it was an ideal profile, but it didn't turn out to be so, it wasn't the right person. Therefore, I ask you clearly, if we require those people who come from a batzoki less filters that would require others to occupy a position of responsibility, in this case, in an essential service, we lower their requirements. We will agree, Mr Councillor, to avoid these situations in the future, but it is clear that these proceedings, without prejudice to the investigations that are being carried out in the judicial field, are not exemplary at all and do not help the transparency to which the Government of which you are a member so much refers. What it seems to you as a proposal that a prominent member, a person who can hold a position of responsibility in the Basque Government, can, for example, present his résumé to the Basque Parliament, and can be analysed in the relevant committee, as proposed by the People's Party. It is a proposal we have made in the Public Sector Bill, and for the time being, it has been rejected by your group. What would you think of these kinds of initiatives so that, precisely, a person with 25 years' experience can be prevented, in the end, from being suitable for a position of responsibility in the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u35	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u36	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Mrs Garrido, this person, as I have told you, was not appointed in the Basque Government to exercise that office because he came from a batzoki, but because he objectively met conditions of fitness. From there, one year after his appointment, he has been the subject of a complaint for acts which have absolutely nothing to do with the performance of his duties at the head of the post, but for alleged activities which took place before his incorporation into the Government and within the framework of a strictly private argument, which has nothing to do with the Executive, that is, that he is neither attached nor organically linked to the Executive at all. Therefore, we are talking about facts and complaints that have surfaced a year later, and that no one knew at the time of the appointment, and no one noticed them at all, all of this appeared a year later. As soon as you have knowledge of (?) the person resigns to safeguard the good name of the Government. I have a meeting with him, and indeed, (?) accepted the resignation and I share with him the desirability of removing from the good name of the Government situations that could compromise the exemplary character of a person, and indeed, a public office subject to judicial criminal proceedings, in some way, resents its exemplary character, which is one of the fundamental requirements for the clean and transparent performance of a public office. And the cessation takes place at the first Governing Council immediately following the filing of the complaint, at the first, so faster, faster, absolutely impossible, absolutely impossible. Having said that, the matter is now in the judicial sphere. It is therefore up to the judges to investigate, it is up to the judges to determine the facts and, where appropriate, to specify the responsibilities that might exist in this case, if any, if any. As far as the Government is concerned, since it is a dispute between individuals, there is no property injury to the Government, nor is there any harm to the general interest; therefore, there is neither need nor desirability nor relevance for the Government to be involved in this procedure. Person who, on the other hand, would not be accepted either by the judges, because he is not an interested party in this area. In any case, of course, the Government is always willing to provide the judiciary with what it needs insofar as it can help to clarify the dispute, which I insist, little can do, because it is a strictly private dispute, the result of a relationship between private individuals that took place within a strictly private entity, radically outside the executive. As far as the initiative that you... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... which took place within a strictly private entity, radically alienated from the Executive. With regard to the initiative you have put forward for the appearance of public office in Parliament before your actual appointment - I am not going to rule on a matter that is being debated in the House - of course I will accept as a disciplined adviser that I am what is accepted in that regard and what is formally adopted in the House in the law that is finally adopted in that regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u37	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interrelation by Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a populare of the Ciudadans, a member of the House of Ogas, a tax-collector of the precedents of the EAE. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Azpiazu, I'm glad to meet you again. As you know, until the reform by the Budgets Act of this year 2022, the budgetary procedure we say ended what was the budget execution with the liquidation of the budgets by this Parliament. The Court of Auditors issued its reports, the Government sent the liquidation reports to the Court of Auditors and this Parliament, and then Parliament passed the liquidations by law. This is the system we had. This is the system we had. What happened? For man, it has happened, that there is a situation in Euskadi that is next, and is that for almost 20 years -2005 if I don't remember until 2019 - we had unliquidated budgets, the liquidation of those budgets was pending, which you know. That is to say, for almost 20 years, as I see it, the government has systematically failed to comply with the obligation to bring to this House what the liquidations of the budgets are for this Parliament to pass a beggar law.Why has this happened? Well, man, this is something the government will also have to explain, I don't know. It may have something to do with the fact that there was a government of the former lehendakari or the former, Juan José Ibarretxe. Perhaps the new government of Patxi López did not want to liquidate the budgets of Juan José Ibarretxe for some reason. Perhaps then the first government, Mr Urkullu, did not want to liquidate Mr López's or Mr Ibarretxe's budgets for some reason either. It's something I honestly don't know. But what I do know is that the procedure has been systematically violated, that is, the procedure has not been respected, the Law has not been complied with. Since we're not going to comply with the law, we've changed the law. We changed the law. When we had reached an agreement, our group reached an agreement with its own, with the other group that supports the Government to amend the Court of Auditors Act, we suddenly found that a few days after the reform of the Court of Auditors Act was published in the official bulletin, we found that another initiative had also been launched in the Budget Act, another proposal coming from the Government. Here, to see how you shield yourself from saying that this is a matter for Parliament, because the bill is approved by the government, it does not come out of Parliament. Yes, but you propose. Sure. We'll talk about that, too. About that distinction that you always make between government, parliament, party, as if they were three totally different entities. And let me hear, this, you go ask someone else's accounts. Of course, we find that provision, I see the complaint here in this rostrum, I remember. We voted against it. Anyway, keep going. That provision was approved, which left the situation with regard to how budgets were to be settled somewhat blurred. It says, "Well, it will send all these 2005–2019 budgets to the Court of Auditors." Ostras, it's been years since they've been liquidated. The Court of Auditors is sent to issue the report; with the reports it returns to Parliament, which Parliament has already established. And here's a curious thing, and I'm telling you this so you know it. Since he lives alone in the government, I tell him what is happening in Parliament too, for a little context. Well, there was a first decision, or rather a non-decision; there was a proposal by the senior lawyer in this House to establish a liquidation of budgets that would end, if not with a law, at least with a vote in this plenary, at least with a vote in this plenary. I'm telling you what happened. That first proposal, curiously, was rejected by the table I have here behind. He refused at the time. One day. The following week, however, it was approved what has been the procedure that has been used for the liquidation of budgets, which basically says that the budget... the liquidations, better said, go to the House, better said to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Finance and Budgets, listen, to make a decision as to what is appropriate. It is practically so worded in those terms What happened the other day in the Commission? Well, I'm sure you're up to speed, but I'll sum up briefly what happened. The groups, before the documentation received - which no longer comes directly from the Government, what is best of all, but comes through the Court of Auditors; this is what is interesting, isn't it? - the groups make proposals. The Bildu parliamentary group made its proposals, we made our own. The proposals did not go ahead, and then the liquidations are automatically understood as approved. That's how it's been, that's how the system has been lately. It is curious that not even the groups that support it, at least they were able to propose: "hey, the budgetary clearances of the years are approved such, such and such", so that at least it seems that Parliament actually approved liquidations, as is the case with any body. But of course, as you well say with your hands, that's a matter that you... listen, you paint nothing. That's Parliament. You are the government, you have nothing to do with it, you are neither part of the PNV nor any of this. They're imaginations. Of course, what does the regulations say in the end? Well, how'd this go? For after we have passed this process of these outstanding budgets, how will the question be left from now on? However, according to the fourth final provision of the Budget Act, which amends budgetary legislation, the Government no longer forwards documentation to Parliament; neither as a draft law nor as a communication. The Government sends it to the Court of Auditors for its report; the Court of Auditors takes its report and, together with the documentation, sends it to Parliament. - I wonder what for? Why propose this, put this in the law... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... the Court of Auditors takes its report and, together with the documentation, sends it to Parliament. For what? - I wonder. - For what? Why propose this, put this in the law? Well, that's what's been established and that's what's right now. There's nothing left to approve. We have absolutely nothing left to approve. That's why, Mr. Azpiazu, this element I'm telling you today, this episode... That, I insist, I imagine where your answer will go, that this is a thing of Parliament; you are the government - which is something else - as everyone knows. But what really worries me about this situation is that it's one more, it's one more. What elements of control do Parliament have over the government? Less and less. The truth is, it's getting less and less. The budgetary clearances - we have already seen this - are no longer being settled, they are simply notified to Parliament for its knowledge and that Parliament adopts proposals, resolutions, if it wishes, but have no value, as you know, either legal or binding in this respect. On the other hand, we include in the budgets a series of bridge clauses, so that if suddenly there are new allocations of European funds. That, by the way, it would be good if someone would one day tell us what is going on with the famous European funds, to redo the budgets without having to go through here either. Listen, because it's already, okay, the government has the capacity, almost a covert legislative delegation, to change the budget on the move. Thirdly, listen, we have a budget that is usual - I don't say it myself - but it doesn't execute an important part, and from there a remnant is being generated, savings that here, in this House, someone said were wanted on purpose. Look, I'd be careful, because, of course, the things that are in a law if by the way they fail, man, there's also a matter of responsibilities, but well, listen, that's it. And then we have some remnants that we'll then use when we think it's convenient, right? It's great. I am in favour of having a remnant, but, as I told you, a regulated remnant, a regulated remnant. This is the budget situation. Then, of course, I wonder: I suppose that these days the heads of the various departments - or if it has not been before, I suppose that before - will have received a communication of preparing their budget plans to get them to your department and that you can already start the budget, because we have hardly started to execute one and already have to prepare the next one. Then you will call – I suppose, as you usually do, which you are also grateful for – the various parliamentary groups, etc., to see if anyone supports you, if you don't support you, anyway, and all this, won't you? Listen, in what spirit do you think that a parliamentary group can negotiate a budget, if we have a number of elements in the budget that enable the government to change it on the move, if we have a budget whose implementation, in the part of investments, year after year, we already know? I am going to use one thing that your parliamentary group has been doing a long time here: using the principle of identity; an execution that is, that is, incomplete at 50%. And thirdly, then we have an implementation, or, rather, a monitoring of budget implementation that does not exist in Parliament. You will tell me that it exists by the Court of Auditors. All right, but it is that this Parliament does not exist. In what spirit do you then believe that parliamentary groups can go and discuss or talk with you about an event in the budget agreement? For all these elements and some more that I can tell you in the next round, I ask you today, Mr Azpiazu: Is it your Government's intention to prevent this Parliament from monitoring and approving the discharges of the Basque Government's budgets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u40	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Mr Gordillo, I will try to remove your many doubts and concerns and your confusion on many of the issues as well. First of all, a clarification of the tone and content with which the inquiry is drafted, according to which you want to know whether it is the Government's intention to prevent the control of liquidations. It is enough to say that the proposed alteration has been approved - and therefore endorsed, indeed, by Parliament - and that its intended conclusion that the government's intention in proposing the change should be prevented from controlling and approving the liquidations is false, because if something is reinforced by the proposed change, it is the enhancement of the economic control of the legislature to the executive, which is carried out through the legal action of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. This body, by the way, of the House itself, direct dependence and parliamentary orbit, which operates by delegation of the Basque legislature and whose technical work is not for Parliament itself to do, but to be (...) of its content and to resolve its views. That, logically, was already the case before the amendment that has been made and is now in force. In short, the prosecution does not prevent the change by your (contradiction? ') as you suggest, and still less, it's the idea of fun to guarantee that this lack of attorneyization. It doesn't happen. I hope your interference is due to ignorance and not to bad intentions. Returning to the purposes of the Government in proposing the change, and, I reiterate, without any hindering intention, I answer to the Government's intention on the change now approved. In fact, it is a reminder of what you should already know, because you have already been sufficiently explained by myself in the committee you preside over, and even made explicit in the budgetary documentation for the financial year 22, in which you as a parliamentarian have access before budget approval, as noted in the memorandum accompanying the draft budget law, Articles 125 and 126 of the consolidated text of the existing legal provisions on the Euskadi budgetary system, approved by Legislative Decree 1/2011 of 24 May. In this regard, the deadline for the preparation of the documentation relating to the liquidation of the General Budgets is first extended until 30 June, in order to facilitate the inclusion in that documentation of the accounting information of the entities subject to the General Accounting Plan. Secondly, in line with the regulation of legal systems in our environment, it is no longer envisaged to approve the liquidation of budgets by means of a draft law, but from now on, once the documentation relating to the liquidation has been drawn up, it will have to be forwarded to the Basque Court of Public Accounts, finalizing the Government's intervention in the liquidation procedure. The amendment to article 9.4 of Law 1/88 of 5 February of the Court of Justice was also included... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... of the Government in the liquidation procedure. The amendment to article 9.4 of Law 1/88 of 5 February of the Basque Court of Public Accounts was also included, in order to provide that this institution, after issuing its report, forwards the liquidation documentation together with that report to Parliament for consideration and processing. These legislative amendments, which in the interpellation are considered to substantially alter the system of approval of the budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community, do not, however, constitute any impediment, none, to the control and approval of the budgets of the Basque Government by the Basque Parliament, which remains the same as was the responsibility of the competent body and with the appropriate pronouncements by Parliament. The only thing that really changes with the new regulatory framework established following the aforementioned legal amendments is that it will no longer be necessary to draw up a bill for the approval of the liquidation of the general budgets and its referral to the Basque Parliament for debate and approval, but this will in no way imply that such liquidation will not be monitored by the Basque Court of Public Accounts, a specialized technical body in the service of the Basque Parliament, and, as its own rule says, a supreme body supervising the financial economic activity of the Basque public sector. In fact, you know - or you should know - that it was an exclusively formal law, of a strictly declarative nature, whose approval or rejection only had political effects but never legal effects since the statements of revenue and expenditure of the closure for each budget year could not be changed. Zuzenbide Konparatuari dagokionez ere, zuk dakizun zerbait gogoraraziko said, horrella, Espainiako Statueren esparruan, autonomy erkidegoko bakar batan onartzen da kontu orokorra lege bidez: Nafarroako Foru Komunitan. Therefore, neither in the General Courts nor in the other legislative assemblies of the Autonomous Communities - nor in which you govern - is the liquidations of the General Budgets approved by law. And this, of course, does not prevent the control of such liquidations, since in all the legal systems such control, including ours, is envisaged, because the legislative amendments to which they refer in the inquiry have not caused any alteration in relation to the content, timing and scope of the control of the Basque Court of Public Accounts; rather, they have been enhanced by the enhancement of the report itself of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. On the other hand, the budgetary regulations of the autonomous communities, apart from the Foral Community of Navarre, only provide for the approval of the general account by the corresponding legislative assembly in the cases of Aragon, Castile-Leon, Galicia, Murcia, and also without rank of law and without action by the Government, but of the legislative one in its regulations. And in the case of the General Account of the State, the legal system only provides for the consideration of the General Courts to be subject to the report issued by the Court of Auditors of the State. And the rules adopted by the Congress and Senate Bureaux on the processing of the State General Account only provide for the debate on the annual report of the Court of Auditors. Moreover, they do not envisage whether or not the liquidation can be approved, but only whether or not the content of the Court of Auditors' report on the General Account of the State can be rejected. Obviously, this unintended regulation over decades, even with parliamentary and governmental majorities of the People's Party, has not been called into question at any time, and it has not been deduced from them that the executive intended not to be controlled. Moreover, it is very clear to any attentive reader of the proposed amendments - and today approved by this Parliament - that they were scrupulous in preserving the autonomy of the Basque Parliament and not predetermine the procedure to be followed for consideration and processing, both of the documentation relating to the liquidation of the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and of the report issued by the Court of Auditors. In our case, after the alterations of the received laws, the US parliament is concerned with the general account and the investigation of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. I cannot fail to point out that, although the draft law referred to the Basque Parliament already incorporated these legislative amendments, and that I myself took them into account in my appearance before the Committee on Economic Affairs, Finance and Budgets of the Basque Parliament for the submission of the draft law on general budgets for the year 2022, held on 2 November 21, nor in that appearance, nor during the full debate held on 14 December 21, nor during the debate in committee held on 6 December 21, nor in the final debate held on 23 December 21 was any mention made of the amendment to the system of approval of the liquidation of the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community. Moreover, no amendments were made in this respect either from your group or from any other group. In conclusion, these legislative amendments do not appear to have provoked opposition or rejection by any parliamentary group, so it is not understood that it is now intended to rely on them to accuse the Government of seeking to prevent the control and approval of the liquidations of the Basque Government's budgets in the Basque Parliament. None of this is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u41	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u42	Mr. Azpiazu, the truth is that this coalition you have with the socialists is putting you in the face of Sanchez's minister, huh? Let us see, it tells me that it is fallacious to say that the fact that Parliament does not approve the liquidation of budgets by means of a draft law, which is of no importance? You're telling me it's phony...? And, above all, you said something very interesting, didn't you? He says, "No, no. It's just, listen, this is a purely political issue." For nothing, listen, all the purely political issues and all the initiatives that have a political character in Parliament, so we delete them, and that is it. Don't you? No problem. Yeah, totally, it's gonna follow everything the same. Man, let the modification... You have said that the amendment strengthens the role of Parliament. That the legislative amendment strengthens the role of Parliament... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... Man, let the modification... You said that the amendment strengthens the role of Parliament, that the legislative amendment strengthens the role of Parliament. Ostras, this, really, is to study it in some seminars that are organized in this and another Parliament, really, eh. That it has no legal effect. Man, obviously the money's already been spent. But, man, the debate through a draft law, above all a full debate, here, that the groups come out here, in the plenary of Parliament, is precisely what it does to strengthen control over the government. And one very important thing, which is to put a little pressure on them in the government, to force them a little bit, to adjust more what the budget is, the forecasts, to what the actual execution is, which is what this is all about with the budget execution. It is very good that you compare yourself with other autonomous communities that have other procedures. That's very good. The only difference with other autonomous communities is, do you know what it is? That, moreover, I have commented with different advisors, some of the parties that are not exactly mine. You know what they tell me? Of course, we don't have the problem because we don't generate the remnants that are generated in the Basque Country, of course. [[Barre]] Okay. That's very good, yes. I understand... I really understand that... I understand that you try to justify it, because I don't know, somehow. But I would have been left alone with the Court of Auditors' argument. You say, "Hey, let the Court of Auditors do this, and that is it, that Parliament is no place to talk about numbers." That argument, you see, would have seemed a little healthier, cleaner. Because now to say no, it's that politically not, is that what does the fact that this has to be discussed here by means of a bill contribute? Brawling, dirtying the debate. Hey, I don't know. And above all, take a look at it, or the person you and I know, who's probably wired you into looking for a little background, so, man, I in this rostrum criticized and censored that disposition you're talking about. And my group, logically, voted against it, because we already saw it coming. In case... In case, it is true that it is well planned: listen, first you establish an enabling provision and then there is another body of the House which, in fact, performs an interpretation, which, we have to say, is the one that has been established, and it is legitimate, but it is very comfortable for the government. I understand, Mr. Azpiazu, and with this I'm done, that you don't like to be controlled. But it is the work of this Parliament, and particularly the work of the opposition, that is the work of the opposition. One thing, Mr Azpiazu, is to have a majority, and the other thing is to be right, and above all to be able to do this kind of thing and to get it out for free politically, politically. You have a comfortable majority now. And the truth is that your group is showing off because they're bringing in a lot of laws that had pending, some over ten years old, to pass them now that they have the majority. Take advantage of the fact that they now have the majority, because this is not always going to last them here or in Madrid either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u44	Mr. Gordillo, you are the first to hear an argument like yours saying that, as we have remnants, you must bring it to pass here as a bill and in the communities in which you also govern, as there are no remnants or there are fewer remnants, no. This argument, as I do not elaborate it a little further, I think it will look quite bad. I have no intention of being a Minister of the Government of Sanchez. I am more than satisfied with being a humble adviser to this government. Look, you know that we are facing an empty, artificial and sterile debate, which leads us only to the prosecution. You know that this legislative renewal... no glimpse can be glimpsed of obscurantism, lack of transparency, political nightliness or similar vision. Parliament enjoys its liquidating moment through the technical voice of the Court of Public Accounts at the time of assessing its annual report. And this with absolute supervisory freedom in the instances, times and depth that they want to freely self-regulate. To say that the amendment adopted by Parliament means to prevent the control of public accounts is to fail in the truth, Mr Gordillo. On the contrary, the current system of approval of the liquidation of the general budgets ensures that it is monitored by the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and that it is considered by the Basque Parliament, although it should concern the Basque Parliament to determine how to carry out the corresponding processing. What is true is that now this will not be done through the government's obligation to introduce a bill. A bill that would only serve to increase the list of passed or rejected laws, which you seem not to like so much either, but without any practical effect, only with a political reading. Political reading that is being done today through the resolutions that the Committee on the Economy, Finance and Budgets that you chair can adopt. And that, in relation to the accounts for 2005 in 2019, you yourself have seen how they were discussed this very week, as Parliament itself has predicted, and without interference from the Executive of any kind. However, it must be stated that all the members of the legislature have been in possession of the prosecutional records of the General Administration of Erronom, made by the Basque Court of the People, and this organ has regularly sent them to the Basque parliamentary of the Eugrean as they were done. In addition, until the 2013 audit report, representatives of the Court have regularly appeared before the Committee on Economics, Finance and Budgets in order to submit such audit reports, with the opportunity for parliamentary groups to present and adopt appropriate resolutions in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament. Since the end of the tenth parliamentary term, however, there have been no further appearances of representatives of the Basque Court of Public Accounts to present the audit reports of the account of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, although during all these years the reports for the financial years 2014, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 have been forwarded to the Basque Parliament. However, it cannot be attributed to the responsibility of the Basque Government that such monitoring reports have not been submitted to the debate of the Committee on the Economy, Finance and Budgets and that they have therefore not adopted resolutions on this matter, as is now required by the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament. In any case, this responsibility must be attributed to the bodies of the House itself, including the Committee on Economic Affairs, Finance and Budgets, which has been chaired... which is now chaired by you and previously also by members of the People's Party, who have not activated the appropriate procedures provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament for the debate and consideration of such monitoring reports. Therefore, do not jealously accuse the Government of wanting to prevent the control and approval of the liquidation of the budgets, when in reality it is the organs of this House that have failed to discuss the control reports relating to such liquidations... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... and approval of the liquidation of the budgets, when in fact it is the bodies of this House that have failed to discuss the monitoring reports relating to such liquidations. In short, after the vicissitifal changes and regulations of the law established by the parliament, it has been simplified from now on to state the settlements of the budgets, and the regulations of acceptance have been updated according to the previous regulations which have hitherto been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of David Soso Rodríguez, together with the members of the Podemos-Nodemus, a member of the Antice and the Chief of the Ogas Department, concerning Inflation." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u46	Yes, good morning, counselor. As I have put to you in the justification of the question, we agree with several considerations that you have already made a few weeks ago in relation to inflation, the price rise we are experiencing. You came to say in those statements that the price increases we were experiencing were short-term, that 66% of that increase basically contributed to the price increase in energy, and that therefore you understood that this price increase, in any case, would be short-term. It is true that the declines in inflation have been closely linked in our environment to the declines in oil prices, and in turn also to shift production manufacturing to Southeast Asia, because wages are cheaper, and therefore this has contributed to greater fragility in supply chains, but in any case, also lower prices. In turn, when the oil cartel rises the price of oil, because it happens the other way around, basically because of the weakness that we live in economic terms in this sense, inflation rises. In any case, we agree that the price of energy is basically the element that has given rise to inflation and prices, and not so much the underlying inflation. In any case, it is with what we do not agree, and it is the consideration that we wanted to make to you today, to ask you in this regard, in your interventions regarding the request for restraint in the wage rise to compensate for the price rise. You have referred to this issue on more than one occasion, and we wanted to ask a question, and it is basically how you feel that the Basque Government should act to offset this rise in wages prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Soto. To answer, Mr. Subalzu, that's your word from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u48	As you well know, Mr Soto, the impact of (?) is mainly due to exogenous factors beyond the control of the Government, such as disruptions in the supply chain, price increases in raw materials, energy, etc. In the face of this event, the Government considers that the best way to deal with the situation is through social dialogue, collective bargaining, reflection on working conditions and the sharing of surpluses or the income pact. He'll have listened to me, like (?) says in recent weeks, to warn against the risk of a second inflation (?)derivative, if as a general rule wages are updated with a single reference to price increases. We have to be very serious, and that is why an income pact is being demanded, and that from the responsibility of governments, employers and workers we were able to get wages to suit the situation, but in a moderate and paused way. Until a few months ago we thought inflation was going to be more cyclical, but the war in Ukraine has taken it to unseen levels since the year 85. Fortunately, the underlying inflation is much lower, and it is to be hoped that the measures to be taken, such as those concerning the energy price adopted by the Spanish Government, or the decisions of Brussels, will correct the situation as soon as possible. Mr. Soto, I want to make it very clear. Inflation is a big problem for everyone. We have to be aware that inflation impoverishes us, and that we have to pay that bill among all of us. We cannot or must not look elsewhere and think that the other wants to carry it. It's our problem and the problem of all of us. That is why I have called for a real agreement between government, trade unions and companies, because if you look elsewhere or each one towards your own, there is no solution. I have also considered that some of us will have to make more efforts than others, because it is also a matter of solidarity, and we will have to try to compensate for the efforts made in the present, in the most immediate future possible. And this is the most appropriate measure in a situation of high inflation, of costs like the current one, to prevent price increases from spreading and perpetuating over time, producing the feared effects of the second round in an inflationary spiral, that the only thing they achieve is to accentuate the transfer of income between economic agents, harming everyone, and especially the weakest groups. If we make the situation worse, the sacrifice we must make in the future will be even greater, and that, of course, would be irresponsible. The Basque Government maintains its firm intention to support individuals, businesses and groups who are most disadvantaged by the effect of inflation through measures as described in its inquiry of 18 March, without ruling out that further measures can be put in place in the light of developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u50	Thank you, Counselor, for the answer. I am glad to hear you say that there are those who have more responsibility for this income pact, which today, by the way, at least as far as the state level is concerned, has already been removed, because the trade union representation has said that as far as the wage update clause is concerned they do not share it, that is to say that the assumption of co-responsibility on their part in relation to the price rise, consider that it should be much more co-responsibility, let us say, the business side in this regard. In any case, tell him that I do not hear him too often to say that he should also contain or apply some degree of moderation in the turnover of certain companies, which, by the way, although they are exogenous, have a lot to do with the fixing of energy prices, such as the profit margins that have been achieved in recent years by certain companies. And that is where we do not see the Basque Government acting, even having the capacity to do so, at least as far as the tax level or the tax system is concerned. On the other hand, tell him that the other day you at the ESC made a number of interventions with which we agree... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... the tax system. On the other hand, to say that the other day you at the ESC made a number of interventions with which we agree; you referred to the need to take advantage of the consequences of the pandemic, or the reflections drawn from the pandemic, to encourage public investment, and also in periods of fiscal consolidation to implement new fiscal frameworks. Let's hope that's something that's coming up soon. We are concerned, in any case, about what the US Federal Reserve has recently implemented, which is the rise in interest rates, and how that can influence the European framework, because Mrs Legarde has already said that in the summer, presumably, here too, we are beginning to apply restrictions on spending and even interest rate increases. And that will affect consumers as well as workers, because access to credit will be even more expensive, and solve mortgages as well. We are therefore concerned that the Basque Government does not act in relation to workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u51	Thank you. Your time is up. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u52	Mr Soto, the economy is something that forces us to follow up on a permanent basis, and I believe that we all agree on this. Let us hope that dialogue and communication between economic and social actors will be resumed in order to try a little to address this issue that we are raising. I have spoken of benefits, because I also told him, speaking of surpluses, when I answered him. Obviously, an income pact is income. And the rents are wages, the profits are all kinds of rents. The Basque Government is already taking measures: energy efficiency and cost-saving measures, 150 million; financing of companies affected by crises, 20 million; tax aid by the Member States, 165; strategic investment plan, as you know, 530 million euros; recently adopted measures amounting to 200 million for the most vulnerable people and groups, businesses and micro-enterprises. In other words, the Government is acting in the area of its possibilities and powers. Inflation solves it. As you know, it is not just Euskadi or the state; Europe and the European Central Bank have much to say about it, as you have pointed out. But, as you see, our area, in the area we have, we are acting, Mr Soto, to mitigate its effects to the extent of our possibilities and our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u53	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. 9th point on the subject list: "Interregation by Lore Martin, the parliamentary member of the Axpe EH Collect, made to the head of the Board of Education, about how the treaty signed with Google will guarantee the foundations of the Eukadical Education." Mrs. Martinez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u54	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. Good morning, Mr. Bilaritz. It's the month of April education: on the return of four days, two very important treaties have been made, and you have introduced a plan. On April 7 we accepted the agreement for the change of Esscal education, and there we saw the amount of the digitalization. Euscalal education will maintain ethical, responsible, eucalyptic, effective, and it must be designed with long-term gaze, in order that our education system may transform itself, even in digitalization. All this will be done by respecting the digital and private rights of the students and respecting the means of technological, re-available, free and transparent. Four days later, on April 11, the Board of Education signed a contract to use Google Work schools for the Space Act. The fact that I signed the education agreement in this country was a landmark. But of course, the agreement you signed in four days and four days with Google, with the opportunity to add four years and four more, if I tell you the truth, is incomprehensible and disappointing. Do you know what came over me when I saw the agreement? In September 2021, they put Grace Homepper on the Google. Yes, they could have put it in the canyon, but no, they put it in the Sopel. It connects the Google cables, the Sope, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The foreman of the Google public policies that had been present had now explained well: "The Europeans will have better access to Internet services and informal resources, including Google Cloud." And then I thought: I'll ask the written question, see what they're telling you, right? Oh, by chance. And I asked you what was the commitment to the Basque News to Google Grace Hoper cable in Sopel, to put it in the Basque Country, and some measure you could make or sign. And you said, "Munk Aunch" didn't say anything about what was said about Google, and that you didn't have any commitments. Well, thank you. Google has planted cable in the community of Eascal, artery, gospel, and has entered the kitchen, and has already been introduced in education, and how much they're involved in public administration. And if we look at the contract in Google, it's impossible to guarantee what we signed education because all the restrictions are made to the Board of Education, not a single Google. Auditability and re-use are not met. The agreement is that users can't allow users to copy, modify, or create a work derived from services, otherwise apply backward engineering techniques, try to uncompile, return, unmount, or otherwise extract these codes in part or whole. As for transparency, besides the service Google offers, the agreement says that additional products can be used. That is, if extra products are used, Google can easily receive personal data from clients; that is, it can get all the personal data of the education community. And what are the extra products? Well, God knows, we don't know, because they don't show in the contract. Indeed, in this absence of transparency, speaking about it, for not giving any definite information to users for receiving and treating the data... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... in this absence, speaking of this, Google Analytics− has also received fines through so many platforms for receiving information and treatment of data. In Austria, in 2022, this year, Austria has shown the desire to forbid Google Analytics. Privacy. In order to protect the European data, general rule is mentioned as an appendix, but Google has been the one who has received enormous fines from the European Union for the breach of the privacy of data and has shown extremely little transparency. In 2019, the German government forbade the use of the clouds of Google for the terrible problems of privacy. The European tenet is being disappointed from Google, both France and Germany. And we're doing the opposite. The gift. Google service isn't free, it says they're free, but they're not. It's great to say that services are free for the multinational, because it's possible to avoid the process of public competition, but they're not free. As it appears in the word, the service for technical assistance must be paid every time it is used, and, moreover, some technical help levels have a fixed payment at a time; it is received in the agreement. Being on a Google platform, the name of the famous Google Company has brought you to buy it. One brings another, and we all know that the Board of Education has already bought quite a few devices, not computers, devices. 15,30,000. A mixed work group. It is said that there will be a mixed band of works, that the experience of teachers and students will serve to increase their knowledge in Google, knowledge, improvement... the company will transfer it to the business to continue making it, always to the care of our education community. And besides, and free, this part... To sum it up, I would like to ask you a question in this chamber: Who gives anything for kisses? Who? Google? Google is not an out-of- government organization. Google is one of the biggest techs in the world. Data. Perhaps the answer is in the data, the data is in the 21st. the gold of the century, and Google knows it better than it does. And it's a multinational company, one of the biggest people in the world, as I've said before. The doors of the educational system are open, do you know how much data management can be made? What's the use of all this data for? And of course the intelligent education will be in their hands too: analitics, artificial intelligence, automatic study of data... All to feed their knowledge and knowledge. In short, you'll take Pegasus to the schools. New Pegasus version: Basque Pegasus For Schols. In the Basque Education, Professor, student, family data will remain in the hands of Googlenation. That's right, with the approval and approval of the government. It would make a joke if it weren't so disturbing and painful. But there is an alternative, a successful alternative to a digital education system. In Barcelona, if Digital Demokra is a digital software education platform. At the Board of Education we've had representatives of the City of Barcelona, X Net and parents and families in Barcelona, where the trial has been a successful pilot, a platform with an open software selection and an open code, a student, who manages the private data of teaching and teacher, and has a chance of improving the digital education system through artificial intelligence. They do this in Barcelona, Catalan. And if we were to be able here in the Basque Country, there was no digital knowledge of technology, so that we sold the soul, but not here... In this town we have a huge technological system, a great one: Universal, informal, telecommunication, engineering faculty. Not just as a matter of study, but as a matter of business. All the companies, informations, and communication companies that are in the kluster: We have ESLE, the organization of free software, we have co-operatives, even EJIE, where there is somewhere a lot of Inteligent Center, Cébersecurity Center. And for what? To hand over the education of this country to the gigantic technological companies of the United States. I'd like to mention that there are more families that don't want to be handed over to the big multinational education of their children. And I'd like to know what an alternative the Board of Education is to these families. And I want to make it clear that the foundation of the agreement is to be fulfilled, and that we have to guarantee the possibility of being a digital education system every school decides. And I wanted to ask you all this: Based on the agreement signed Googlekin, your intention is to ensure what you get on the basis of the educational agreement in the digital modification area.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u56	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mrs. Martinez, your argument is based on a data that is either real or not true and that nothing was signed at the end of April. On April 7th, this parliament agreed to the agreement of the grounds for the transformation of euscal education. That's right. Our government, the Board of Education, has made his commission. In this regard, and since you mention a part of the agreement in words, the answer to your question lies in the text of the agreement, precisely for modification and inclusion... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... Since you speak literally, the answer to your question is in the text of the agreement, exactly in the caption provided for modification and inclusion digitalization. And he says: "The digitalization offers to education various possibilities, which are always directly connected with the faculty of the student. The euscal educational system by a new strategy of digitalization wants to give an answer to the hinges proposed in the modern context, and to increase the use of digital technology, to the process of teaching, and to the development of basic skills for digital transformation. The proper and necessary methodologyal technology is urgent, considering the pedagogical basis, and using options that enable digitalization to encourage the process of learning by new modes. In fact, in compliance with the basic agreement on digital transformation and inclusion, the Governing Council of 26 April last approved the Digital Transformation Plan of the Basque Educational System 2022-2024. As a precedent, we have to show that the progress in digital technology checks a new reality-that is to say, we must give an answer to the technological and ethical and social challenges connected with the innovations that are changing the mode of living and working. Given the presence of digital technologies in all areas of our lives, the education system must not only adapt, but must become an agent of change and innovation. Students, staff, educational institutions and families must be able to take advantage of the numerous opportunities provided by digital technologies to advance teaching, learning, communication and creativity. This new plan has been created to encourage a new scope that will make the lever for the pedagogical innovation. This will boost the development of digital skills in the education system, using technology efficiently and efficiently. The student places them in the center of the study process so that they can develop their potential in digital times. Hence it is that amongst the designs it has, it is customary to promote the digital skills of the students and teachers. It is a crucial step, after all, that students should face the roots of this age with success. The axis of the new plan is to adapt all the education system to digital epochs, and all the stages. But the challenge of this transformation of the education system does not only occur in the pedagogy, and in the organization of labor, undergrowth, and in the government. In this context, driven by experimentations and using digital environments, the transformation, practice, must be made to improve the pedagogical. Our educational system must adapt to the needs and opportunities generated by the digital revolution, both in terms of skills development and research and knowledge generation. To ensure a successful transformation of the digital education system, it must play an active role in the digital revolution, equipping teachers and students with the right digital skills. This is a process of adaptation that is not without complexity but represents a necessary transition for the future. A transition that must incorporate the perspective of ethical and responsible digitization. To achieve this, the new plan makes its own the key priorities identified in 2020 by the European Commission's Digital Education Action Plan. And these priorities are two: the first, to promote the development of a high-performance digital educational ecosystem, including the provision of high-quality learning content, user-friendly tools and secure platforms that respect privacy and ethical standards; the second, to develop digital skills and capabilities for digital transformation, through the development of skills and competencies from an early age, as well as advanced digital capabilities that generate more digital specialists and ensure that girls and young women are equally represented in digital studies and careers. At this point, to choose the platform that they want to use for education projects, we need to discuss how to respect the autonomy of the schools. That, following the basic priority of the European Committee's Digital Education Act on the Plan, is to provide for certain platforms that are easily used, and which respect their privacy and ethical rules. In this respect, from the Board of Education, no one is obliged to choose a specific platform. Most of the schools willingly use the three educational platforms which are at the present time: 365, Moodle and Works. The Department makes available to the centres the tools they choose on the basis of their needs. Currently they mostly choose the educational platforms that they consider most appropriate within their educational project, and, therefore, we must specify that the agreement signed with Google to which you repeatedly refer is not an end in itself, but is an additional tool. A tool of very common and widespread use among our society, and we must not forget our obligation to equip the student with the tools that will also allow him to develop in the environment around him. In addition, the terms of the above-mentioned agreement have the agreement of the Basque Data Protection Agency: this is determined by the analysis carried out in the opinion issued on the agreement that has been signed with Google. This opinion is published on the website of the Data Protection Agency itself. Among the most relevant conclusions, is that regarding safety, and I quote: "The security measures corresponding to the Google Work Space platform have been evaluated and obtained in 2019 the Certificate of Conformity with the Safety Scheme in the High category. We need to make sure that Google Work is explicitly in the termed contract for Space for Education, no publicity will be included in the products, i.e., the product addressed to education doesn't have that publicity component. On the other hand, Google World's Space for Education platform fills the code of Europe in the area of data protection. Finally, that platform... [[End of tape 15]] (The beginning of the tape 16) On the other hand, Google Work Space Foro Education platform fills the code of Europe in the area of data protection. Lastly, using this platform does not necessarily make use of a specific hardware and software. It is done using any navigater you have installed on any device. From one point of view of ethical and responsible conversion, we must wager that the platforms are in favor of each other's complement, both prior and free software, to prevent the social roots which are constantly changing the digital region of our pupils, to enable them to become capable of being able. Under this premise, the Digital Transformation Plan of the Basque Educational System 2022-24, proposes the incorporation of digital technologies at all educational levels, taking advantage of its potential to improve and diversify teaching and learning practices, as well as to develop digital skills. A digital technology integration into the education system, we will change our educational institutions on the one hand, and on the other, the educational environments which are to be produced will ensure the education which is consistent with the demands of the present world, which will enable all members to participate in perfect obedience. Which will promote equity in our society, and promote to the futures of the society of science, the profiles, the professional development of answering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u57	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u58	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you for your explanation. If I tell you the truth, you've been talking about the plan for six minutes, and I thought you wouldn't talk about Google, and you finally said something. I'll start, too, see, around the plan. Because we're doing technology up and down today, but it's important what technology. Instead of talking digital technology up and down, we need to make it clear, right? Digitalize digitalize means no improvements. A digital transformation from the system of education will produce no miracle in it. A digital transformation plan should answer two questions. Why do the digital transformation and how we'll do it? Not very well fixed north to some goal education, some education, and... We may not reach our destination. We're short of deep reflection to define where we're going and what we're trying to achieve. That's why the computers were mentioned when you introduced the plan, right? That 160.000 computers will be made, given in two years; that between LH1 and LH4, there will be tactyle displays, and between LH5 five and Batxim2, computers. There's no scientific evidence that tells more and more digitalization guarantees a better education. And that, that reflection, I'd like to leave you there. And when you're talking about that, you said you had three options today. I agree with you. You always have to give me a chance. But today I was asking you if Google's agreement guarantees education agreement. And I brought you a lot of data saying he's not guaranteed today. He doesn't guarantee it, and you mention that he won't put publicity on the platform, and that's all there is to it, because there's to be publicity for our students and teachers. That's all we need. You mentioned Moodlea. The Moodle is much more than the Moodean, an education platform, and they've shown us in Barcelona with all the options that have free software. Christ's platforms can be made of quality that will Google them... That's competition that will be the same competitive in Google. And, well, if I tell you the truth, if I can trust you. And we have EH, as we gather, that the Board of Education will comply with the educational agreement. But in Google this agreement is supposed to be contrary to the education agreement, and it seems to us that it is rather serious, and that it is necessary that the treaty should continue. That's why, and that's the end of it, Mrs. Arriguega... Well, he's not here now. Mr. Pastor and Mr. Martinez, I'd give them the request to make a call at the tracking table, and you, too, of course. And these parties gathered together, examined them, and gave them a suitable solution. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u60	Mrs. Martinez, I gave you a clue. that we did not sign on April 11th, passed through the Council of Government on the 22nd of February. As you have mentioned, the agreement of the education agreement passed through here on April 7th... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... As you have mentioned, the treaty of education passed here on April 7th. Adieriazi disudan bezala, digitization etiko eta arduratsuaren aldeko apustua egiten dugu. Ikastetxeen esku jarri behar ditugu euren hezkuntza proyektuen primoen arabira eskatzen dituzten tresnak. Zuek etainbe aipatzen duzue software librea, éta Hezkuntza Saila ez dago was horretako softwaren kontra, inondik inora. In fact, through the new Digital Transformation Plan of the Basque Educational System, which goes beyond what can be read in the press, it is intended to respond to the proposed law No. 94/2021 on ensuring the possibility of using free software in all educational centres in the community. This proposal was approved by the plenary of this House on 30 September 2021. The new plan aims to advance the comprehensive digital literacy of the centres, strengthening the training of teachers and students, with infrastructure and tools facilitating a quality training process that addresses equity and equal opportunities in the field of technology. The reference to technological infrastructures should be noted here. One of the specific lines of work of the new plan is to apply cybersecurity techniques from the point of view of the infrastructure of the centres, mainly for three purposes: first, to increase data protection and privacy of users; secondly, to avoid identity theft and intrusion into the learning environment; and thirdly, to prevent cyber attacks. On the other hand, and on the other side of what has been said at the second point of received legal proposal, we cannot forget that when we develop substructure and tools, we must follow the standards set in the community for managing information and communication technology. With this, in accordance with the 36/20 Decree, the administration of the data of Euskal Autonomy Public Sector, security and privacy, are also preserved according to the law in which it is established. In this circle of activity, we must realize that as government, we must create a few higher standards to ensure security and privacy within the legally established limits. For this reason we shall continue to bet on the Board of Education, on behalf of the solutions and technology platforms which most schools require, and which are highly added services necessary for education systems, but which are always under corporate standards. We bet on the complementarity of free software and private software to the extent that both meet the needs of educational projects within our centers based on their autonomy. We should not stigmatize the use of some tools against others if they provide a solution to our needs as a society or to the needs of the students. Mrs. Martinez, do we not use mail accounts of the companies we're working for every day with the tools of free software and which we're discussing here −Gmail, Outlook Hotmail− or the navigater OmniChrome−, operating systems hurtWindows, iOS, Android− or GPS? Isn't school... Is it the reflection of society? Must we not prepare our pupils to face what they will find in everyday life? We think so. And I'm sure you'll think the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. tenth point in theme list: "To ask the question, Joseph Manuel Gilegas, Member of the popular-Ciudads, a member of the Board of Education on the future opposition of education." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselor. This same week you have confirmed your Government's intention to convene soon an OPE of more than 6,000 teaching places after the summer. As we all imagine, a call, an announcement of this kind has a great impact on Basque society. And although it has not yet been announced the definitive design of it, we have been able to know the fear of a part, of a group of teachers to lose their job because they do not accredit a sufficient knowledge of the Basque if their department's claims to raise its level of demand are fulfilled. It is about a hundred experienced teachers, with a lot of experience, who joined the profession before the Linguistic Profiles Decree of 1993, who are already over the age of 50 and with the logical difficulties that this age entails in reorienting their working life. That is why today I want to give you the opportunity to clarify this situation. And so I ask you: How does the Education Department intend to deal with the euskera requirement in the future OPE? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u63	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u64	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Gil jauna, start by expanding the information you provide in your justification. As you yourself have said, this very week, on Monday specifically, at the sectoral table of teaching staff - and right now they are also meeting - we have communicated to the trade union representatives the call for the organization of the various public offers of employment of this year 2022. We will convene more than 6,300 places for different groups working in education; 5,300, slightly more than 5,300 places for teachers and 985 places for workers. The allocation of the relevant language profile and its date of preceptivity is carried out in accordance with the relevant language policy regulations, the multiannual plans for the euskaldunisation of the public administration and the design of the planning of linguistic projects in the educational centres themselves. All this has accompanied the demands of families in the enrollment of their daughters and children. During this whole process, it has been considered, and it will be observed that the state of the fixed workers of the career, who have not succeeded in studying the degree of eucalyplication in any of the two official languages, has not been able to teach them. The task carried out by the Department of Education with regard to the euskaldunization and literacy of teachers should be highlighted. This task began in course 81-82. The IRALE program has already made its way 40 years. Today in Europe... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ...work began on course 81-82. The IRALE program has already made its way 40 years. Today, the number of professors who have tested the Frame 1 Level of the European Reference is closest to 95%. The impact on the program IRALE during the four decades has produced on this positive development is apparent. Thank you. It's a confession.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u65	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, "a more hopeful situation." With those words you defined in January, in an interview in El Correo, the future of the interim Education who hope to consolidate their place through the upcoming oppositions. And I regret, Mr. Counsellor, that today, instead of bringing you here more committed hope, for the time being, all you have achieved is to generate uncertainty among teachers. From what we have seen through the media, sources from your department have not contributed to moving these teachers calmly, but rather to the contrary; as we read in El Correo, you acknowledge that the decision is not made, but remember nothing subtly that increases the demand for profiles L2, PL2, forgiveness. But, beyond the statements of their environment in the media, today I wanted to give, indeed, the opportunity to bring certainty and serenity to this group of teachers, committing to respect their profile - which I repeat, is the one that was in force when they joined the profession - so that they can consolidate their place as the rest of their colleagues, and that they can join that more hopeful situation than you spoke. But you missed that opportunity today to prove that I was wrong, that you may have overreacted when you said that your nationalist project moves you more than the interests of education, that moves you more the linguistic imposition than the future of Basque teachers. And I recognize that it would also not be fair to individualise the matter exclusively in you, because this, indeed, is the seal of your Government, is something you have been doing for years with the entire administration: a policy that is surely proving very useful to you in the ballot box, but which is not without problems for the future of Euskadi, because we lose in our labour market many valuable professionals; in this case, we will lose a group of teachers, a group of experienced teachers, with knowledge. But I also do not want to forget the use they make of Basque, turning it into a barrier that affects many very young, brilliant, with excellent training in their areas, who have to look for their future in cities like Madrid, London or New York, instead of being able to bring their value to Euskadi. And so we are building an increasingly closed, smaller, more nationalist Euskadi, but with significant costs. We are becoming less and less attractive outside, we lose economic weight and we have worse services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u68	I repeat: the process of assigning profiles and their date of preceptivity is carried out in accordance with the regulations in force, and also taking into account the situations of staff serving the educational institutions of the Department of Education. This is why they have been assigned to the fixed staff of the career officers and hired laborers who have nothing to do with instruction: the landlord of the dining room, responsible for extra activities and out-of-school activities, the manager's assistants and all. Till, based on age, they retire on people who have not proved enough language skills. In the case of staff with temporary contracts, persons who do not have the required language profiles have the possibility to cover the temporary needs of positions with a zero or one profile, which the levels of Infantile, Primary, Secondary and Baccalaureate are decreasing on a course-by-course basis and therefore cannot be considered structural and subject to definitive regulatory coverage. Indeed, we have identified the number of people who are currently working in centers dependent on the Department of Education, considering the variable of age, effective service time and the body in which they work as a temporary worker. This is why the places that currently do not have the PL2 with a preceptivity date are not going to be part of the call for places of the Department's public offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u69	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The eleventh point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together Podemos-Nozzer, a member of the Antices, a member of the Board of Education, an agreement between the Board of Education and the Google Cloud Emited." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u70	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, congressmen, chief physician. We are pointing out that the decrees of planning and concertation were to be the first milestones in this context, which were to indicate the direction of the policies of the Department of Education, baina badirudi ok geundela. Izan ere, dagoeneko badugu Hezkuntza Sailak hartu two zorigaiztoko norabidea agerian utzi two beasts mugarri bat, hobeto esanda, bidean jarritak harria: harritzar erraldoia. "Y sí, hablamos del acuerdo que suscrito con se se van a implantar los servicios de tum multinaceal en todos lostros adiactivos del Departmento de Educación." So the bureau confirmed our worst convictions. We had an excellent opportunity, in order to go straight to the digitalization of education, to appreciate the contributions that we had heard in poncience, and, what is more, to fulfill what we received in the treaty itself. But apparently from their Department they prefer to perpetuate themselves in outdated and captive positions of the private. Horregatik, Sailburu jauna, Zera galdetzen disigu: how the Department of Education will ensure compliance with the Basic Agreement in terms of digital rights and student privacy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Answer me, Mr. Bilartz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u72	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Gonzalez andrea, aurreko interpelazian adriazi dudan bezala, oinarrian akordioren aldeko konpromisoa bermatuta dago, eta akordioa goitik behera hartzen dugu geure gain. And I understand your concern. The deployment of information and communication technologies has radically affected the human condition, as our relations with ourselves, with others and with the world have changed. Como consecencia deello, vivimos en un mundo cada vez digital: "Privacidad, cicard, derechos digitales, dove ético de datos..." It is evident that digital technology is rapidly changing society, and at the same time deep challenges are creating. The technology, the ethical challenge, and... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... society is changing, and at the same time deep challenges are forming. They're technological, ethical, and social challenge. They're all challenges connected with innovations that change the way they live and work. We would like to respond to these challenges in the scope of modification and inculation through the planet of the Basque Education for the Digital transformation and inclusion, in short, the vast majority of this Chamber in the circle of named agreement. Don't hesitate, we're betting on the responsible and ethical digitalization.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u73	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u74	It has been a long, difficult, difficult road to make a treaty. And once done, we met with the first contradiction, only at four days after the publication of it. The 16th point of the operation plan of education agreement, which we have received from our efforts to say by −, makes it clear: the digital and private rights of students will be respected, using technological, uditable, re-available, free and transparent resources. And, well, you've agreed that with the Google multinational we can last for eight years. It is a wonder, indeed, that the educational agreement should have been so quickly and openly violated. We may have to hear that Google is auditable and free. Well, no. It's not, not at all. It is a private, giant, lucrative company that does not guarantee the privacy or full right of our students to respect their digital rights. Bazenuten standard liretan oinarritutako platform bat eraikitzen inbertitzea, baina nahiago izan duzue, as they always do, outsourcing services, wasting public money and, by the way, giving digital sovereignty to one of the most powerful and questioned multinationals worldwide. That sovereignty that corresponds to or should correspond to our students and teachers. Adarjotze Hutsa from the right-hand side, huh? Area, digital eskubid aldeko horrenbeste aldarri entzun dugunean hezkuntza pomentzian. Bertan ditugu Hezkuntzan Librezaleak; bertan ere, software librearekin lanean dihardute hainbat proyektu pilotu. And it's also close to Barcelona's Digital Democrátic Free Software platform, and a wonderful project like Xnet. From here, thanks to all of them. If it were for us, we would give these groups the opportunity to bet by free and auditable technological means, not products offered by a giant and lucrative company like Google. Zuek, ordea, diazue ikasle eta irakasle digitalki trebeak eta gaituak nahi dituzuela, eta, horretarako, eraldaketa digitalrako plan bat osatu duzue. Baina ez al zarete ohartzen gure haur gaste irakasleak Google ebiltzera mugatzen vadin badituzue, ez dutela trebetasun askorik lortuko? Ez diozula utilten gaitasun digitalak garatzen? You say Google is one more tool, but if you are only allowed to use one tool, how are you going to measure your digital capabilities? You talk about ethical and responsible digitization over and over again. This doesn't marry a deal like this, so...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Time is up, time is up. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u76	Yeah. Mrs. González, as far as the Google treaty is concerned, I need to explain a few points to you. First of all, that contract is just another instrument. The public school enables them to use software; it does not at all force them to use it. And then the schools that use it will have a protection for use. There will be another chance for students who will be able to use their education according to their projects and wants. Two. Before signing this agreement, there was no specific rule of using it; and he who now decides to use it in our system, is given a circle of legal security and action. Three. As for students' privacy and digital rights, the Basque Office has approved the data. "Software fulfills the Rules of Europe in the Reform Data Protection area." Four. According to the results of the Expendation of the UVal Office, the security measures for the Google WorkSpace platform are evaluated and 2019. They have obtained a certificate of security trust, including the Great in the category. And the 5th. Finally, using this platform does not necessarily include using a specific or hardware software: it is done using any navigater installed on any device. From an ethical and responsible digitalization, we are committed to the complementarity of platforms and the different software options, both free and private, all with the aim of equipping our student with the capabilities to enable them to face the challenges of a society that is constantly evolving in the digital field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interpelation by Maria Garde Ramirez, Member of the Medical Department, the new mental health strategy of the EAE. Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u78	Thank you, Madame Committee. Good noon to all, and especially to the chief of health cider. A month ago, on April 4th, you announced that the new mental strategy of Eukadics is going to be designed. Well, it's just a communicative exercise. And I'm just saying that because what I'm telling you isn't just a plan yet, you just gave it a headline. Now, there's no new strategy, and we already have a 2010 strategy that's gonna die and an old one. Eight months ago, at the beginning of the course, in October, we introduced you to the same subject, namely, to find out what measures you would take to treat the mental health of the people, and to prevent the serious consequences of the pandemec. And your answer was deoladore. You already told us... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and to face the serious consequences of the pandemia. And your answer was deoladore. You told us already that the medical department had taken measures while you were in control of the situation. And on the other hand, you underestimated the influence of the pandem in the mental health of the people, saying that it affected psychiatric attention, yes, but as it did in all the fields of life. That's what you told us. And even more, you accused us of stigmatizing mental health in our initiative. But you didn't say anything about reforming the strategy, you didn't even mean to. Nevertheless, the answer we had heard was inadequate to us, and we presented a motion after the interpelation, in order to determine the measures. And among these words we received as follows: The parliamentor asks the Medical Department to adapt the mental health strategy of the EAE to modern times. We asked you to re-open the strategy eight months ago. Hace ocho pasis que pedíamos la actación de la strategy. "Una nueva strategy para hacer frente al impacto de la pandemia y a los retos actules y de futuro que vamos a tener enim mentale." And look how much time we've wasted on the road. And in the discussion of this motion, which was discussed together with another proposition, as described by the Podemos-IU, it was impossible to arrive at the consent. The parts supported by the government, and so also the divisions, did not make any effort to agree with us. Together he made an attempt on Podemos-IU, but none of us. And I think when the time is so important we should all try to make a big deal. And we're still willing to do it. Azkenean bath, zer onartu zen? Ba, aurretik jadanik onartutakoa berriro era. That Osakidetza's mental health services remain particularly vigilant to the pandemic. Yes, they do, and we have told them many times; throughout the pandemic they do, too, today. And all right, you have to recognize it, it seems good to us; and from here our recognition of your work and dedication. But you have to go beyond recognition, because professionals need tools to do their job. And so the chance was lost, in order to agree to the measures, in order to agree with the plan of a new strategy. And, of course, the opportunity is lost and the time is lost. And many things have happened on the way, and how many things happen every day. In between, it's confirmed and confirmed that the mental health of youth and young children has been worse since the pandemia. It was an inclination that preceded it, but which increased violently. Multiplication of nutrient behavior (... ) with great anxiety. It's obvious that women suffer in Osapartes on the axiss of mental health, recorded in the last report of −Emation as a woman. Due to the want of professionals and resources, only at this moment is there a mental disorder of health (... ) The most urgent cases, and many others, are directed to the private area, because we come from − to the public. And we know that when this happens, the circumstances are very grave, because they will never have a large segment of the public, because they will have access to these precautions. And all that stuff was very long. It was a serious situation ahead of us, if it's serious. But at least it seems that now − wasn't first, but now I'm talking about the news on April, − or well, rather than the news, for the headlines, you see the need of a new strategy. Well, thank you and congratulations, Chief of Apples, it was about time. And besides, the new strategy, which you received, will answer for the needs of the season after the pandemy. We're happy, Chief of Apples. We're glad that you're aware of it, that you've been incriminating and confessing it until now. And a pity that you acknowledge also the effective influence of children, teenages, and young men. You deny that there is a time after pandemy in mental health. And of course you won't do it when this reality is so crude that it's so obvious that when the situation's overdone, it's undeniable. I didn't bring you headlines today as I did the other day, but they were. Over, up, down, left, right, everywhere. But, well, if it was worth a change of view, yes, a little worse. If we didn't accept the influence of the palace, the new strategy wouldn't give us strong answers to the present situation, and it wouldn't be an instrument to face the shootings in our mental health. So, we're glad, but, uh, in so far as we get excited, right? Because we have little information about your intentions, we haven't received any details. That's why we're in session today. Well, yes, Mrs. Cedui, the new strategy will be a great challenge in front of you. It has to be an instrument to face these challenges, and we want to know which diagnosis this strategy is based on. That is to say, according to the Medical Department, what is the state of mental health of the EAE population at the moment, what are the causes of its system, of weakness, of want, of strength. What's your context? What challenges we have in our mental health, what shall we find in the short and near period, what will be the direction of the strategy? At least, though it is not designed, what is the principal aim, what is the meaning of the axes. How important this design is to be performed, how and with. Is the part gonna get stronger? What kind of operators and agents? What do we need experts and experts? Of course, in the definition and design of the strategy. But maybe it's time for people to hear it, to listen to the users. There are other countries where there are plans to design mental health strategies. Do you know them, Mrs. Chief? What do you think of such forms? Do you find them interesting? When will it be made? What's the chronogram? And the important thing, if we want it to be effective, what resource will be directed to perform and carry out the strategy? What resources, resources we need to pass from words to action, not to stop strategy in nice words, and really to be a strong tool and tool. And what will be the result of the contrivances of evaluation, of the immense efficiency of the world, and perhaps of the strategy. Well, we can continue to plan thousands of questions, but what we want to know is what the first course of the strategy will be designed, what ground it will have. Las cenco doubles que dice: qué, para qué, cómo, cuándo... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the first course of strategy, the soil it will have. The five double grapes that are said: what, for what, how, when, who. We hope to be able to clarify these incognites today. But above all, we want to know how far you are willing to go: whether you are really going to be ambitious in this strategy; whether you are really going to pose a real change; whether you are really going to put mental health in the center, in the place it deserves; whether this strategy is really going to generate a change in the paradigm of the mental health of Basque citizens. We think that we need courage and ambition to extract the present state, but especially to oppose the roots of nations, who will come to us, in these times of uncertainty, to give strong grips to the people, to say to the people, that we protect and preserve their health, because it is their right, and that there is no health without mental health. And this should be recorded on our mind. No hay salud sin salud mental. Well, that's waiting for your answer, Chief of Apples, thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u79	Thank you, Mrs Garde. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u80	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Thank you and happiness are really welcome, Mrs Garde. But then I thought there was some kind of anger in it. I'd like to understand why what I said was that there was a firm agreement in this parliament, and that we're working on it. I don't know how upset that's gonna have to be. The consequences, the consequences you took, of course, that I didn't share them. And this admits that he who is here mentioned admits it, doesn't he? We made a deal here, which was even in our plans, and we're dealing with it. That ought to be enough for everyone to be happy. The strategic health department shows that it's from the start, convinced that no health is available without mental health, that area is an important service network in the Eukadin. There is already a question of the welfare of persons, of the prevention of mental diseases, and of the treatment and rehabilitation of persons who suffer them. In this legislation, and on the basis of which the road has already been made, various furrows have been cultivated, and have been treated with an activity which has been directed to promote the emotional, psychological, and social welfare of men. In the most difficult moments of the pandemia, we still remember that we are in the pandema, but in the most difficult moments we had a very limited degree of illness for doing many activities in the most ordinary manner, as we had very limited capacity, some mental and emotional problems that preceded society had more influence. That put us on a new stage. Looking at the new strategy, which is consistent with your previous experience, we continue to bet on the communal model. Commercial attention model. This pattern is the present of our strategic meditations since the '80s to develop social readiness and health preparation for people who are involved in mental disorders. According to this reflection, and agreeing with the Western systems and the strategic consideration of the OSD itself, there are certain themes which will probably be a part of the new strategy. Actually, it's not some news. but it must be reflected, and perhaps strengthened in the present context, according to the rights of persons who have the quality of endurance and mental commotions. The new mental strategy is at this moment at the beginning, the first meeting and reflection, but we do not start from scratch. For example, it is the end of the project of the Public Health at the present day; to protect and strengthen the health of the euscal people, as well as the health of the mind as the public good of the highest interest, to act in the decisive goods of health, to prevent sickness, injury, and disaffection, and to support and promote the health of the people. Both in collective areas and in one's own. In Euskadi, the presence of mental health strategies has been early. Five have been approved and developed: 1983, 1990, 2004, 2010 and 2016. All the strategies from that pioneer Psychiatric Assistance and Mental Health Plan, which was that of 1983, have had as common factor the implementation of the community model, with the development of all its characteristics: Autonomy is the capacity of service to respect and promote the independence and self-sufficiency of people. Continuity is the capacity of the care network to provide treatment, rehabilitation, care and support continuously throughout life. This is a longitudinal continuity. And consistently between the services that make up it, cross-sectional continuity. Accessibility is the capacity of a service to provide assistance to patients and their families when and where they need it. Comprehensive care: the ability to respond to all factors involved in the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of a mental disorder. Equity: the distribution of health and social resources adequate in quality and proportionate in quantity to the needs of the population, in accordance with explicit and rational criteria. Personal recovery: recovery from a serious mental disorder is a process of change and personal growth, based on the hope of autonomy and affiliation, aimed at overcoming the negative effects on personal development that mental disorders have in many cases. Responsibility: recognition by health institutions of their responsibility towards patients, family, community. Quality: a feature of services that seeks to continuously increase the likelihood of obtaining the desired results, using test-based procedures. The design of assistance resources and their orientation over these nearly 40 years have taken these budgets into account. From this experience, in the new strategy we have to focus on the promotion of... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...guidance over these almost 40 years have taken these budgets into account. Based on this experience, we have to focus on the promotion of mental health in all policies in the new strategy, as already foreseen in our overall strategic framework for health. I am referring to promoting a harmonious development framework for people through good upbringing, equal opportunities, reconciliation policies, reduced stress in schools, among others. The aim is to promote the development of personalities who know how to cope with adversity and are resilient. The collaboration of the education and health system must be a fundamental axis in this development. The fight against the stigma that people with mental disorders endure, especially if that disorder is classified as serious, this is an effort (?) which must go through the development of rights and the fight against the inequalities and prejudices that constitute stigma. The care and preventive development of child-to-child mental health will also be preferred; in fact, this line of work has had a special development in recent times. The implementation and development of the Euskadi Suicide Prevention Strategy, published in 2019, will also follow in the first line of action of the new strategy. In addition to these lines I have mentioned to you, aspects such as care for the families of people with mental disorders; citizen participation, that of the patients, with whom we are each and every day; the development of the community model mentioned above; coordination of the various social, health, educational, research, mental health research, or training, will give continuity to the previous strategic proposals, and new objectives will be proposed. And from this knowledge and experience we are witnessing – I have to say – speeches in which they still psychologize and psychiatrise phenomena that have nothing to do with mental disorders. Affirmations that optimize the discomfort of everyday life and elevate them to categories of mental illness. We have to focus, we have to focus the mental health care framework. We should not confuse emotional discomfort with illness or mental disorder. That's what I did, without leaving anyone out, nor minimizing anyone, and that's something I still think we have..., what we need to talk about and what we need to improve, because if we don't, it'll be confusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u82	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank you, Chief of Appleduy, for the explanations given me, but not enough. We have a machine of doubt about the new strategy and its design, and we have not received the answers we expected. And it's really troubling what it tells us is that there's no soil to base strategy, you talk to us from the preptics, and, of course, we've got to take everything that's done. We don't deny it. But you're systematically speaking to me about mental disorders, and I'm asking you to jump, and let's go talk about mental health. And I don't want to psychologize anything like you say. Eta seems, gives us the feeling that you are improvising, that you have suddenly encountered a panorama in which many agents and many equals are saying that, publicly, we need changes in mental health. Mental health has fully entered the social and political agenda, and we also see it every day in Parliament. In so many committees, many agents have come to talk about other issues and end up in another way, in one way or another, also talking about mental health. Buter mism, vino un grupo de jóvenes a hablar y a reunirse con nostras para hablar de mental. Y unpues de la mayor, tratáis de salvar la Papeleta que estáis agendo, y anunciáis una nueva strategy. Well, to give that news back to the headline, a goal-to-date. And we had this suspicion: The suspicion that you are improvising, because here in the legislature we've brought 11 initiatives to demand a renewal of strategy and a new strategy, last in March, and you haven't talked about the reforming strategy until April. And this is where you've had your chances. You yourself have had opportunities, and also parties that maintain the government. And you talked to me about an agreement. No, I'm sorry. There has been no agreement, there has been a correction, and this has been agreed, but this is not an agreement. It's not. So let's take things seriously. Let's go... It's gonna be a very important strategy because he's determined in the years that we've marked the course and which direction we're going to be in mental health, we're going to be careful about doing things. Leave the improv and the core and let's go to work. And the way you work, that's the question we're going to save now. Well, you see, as you know a few days ago, some of the assurances and experts have tried to represent the new mental strategy of health, even there's been a member of your government. A lot of things have been added to the table during this performance, but I can... I'd put a couple of stories on. And it is in order to be a reformer strategy that mental health should be understood in a more comprehensive manner. And the experts said that there'd be different moments in a life like a continuum. Not that we're sane or sick, that there's more mental health than that. And with this one, that we must go beyond the biomeandic and clinical parameters and look at them for social parameters. Because they're very printing in health, and above all in mental health. And lastly, the importance of participation. We have to go beyond the layout of strategy. We need to invest citizens in the process, not just the users, of course, but the citizens. And we have an example here in Valentia, where a social council has begun. I don't know how the trial goes by the first hand, but people who know it's being very interesting. Why not see a little what to do in the other places, and if it is useful, whether it is proposed here also, or not? It's very important to be able to understand that the mental health needs all to be concerned and cared about, about the community and the government, even the community. And this is also the way by which the prejudice, stigma, neglect, and taboos are established. And, to finish, we're ready to draw the strategy. We've got a few things on our mind, for example... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to begin with the stigma, neglect, and tabulation. And, to finish, we're ready to draw the strategy. We have a few points, of course, for we are not much pleased to take the first word. And, well, and I'll repeat what I always repeat to you, − but who is of the highest importance to me,−, that there is no health without mental health. Para nosotras no hay salud sin hablar de salud mental su globalidad. And like all the others, and though we have come down to-day boldly, we are ready to speak, and ready to reach real agreements and the commons, and to reach the open ones and to work together. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u83	Thank you, Mrs Garde. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u84	Mrs Garde, we're talking about mental illness. I don't know if other agents are talking about it, I don't know about you guys, but we're talking about mental illness. I told you about that, we work on this and that's about our next strategy. Besides, an agreement, an agreement, a agreement, or you did not agree with this agreement, seems to have to be thought why. But if you bring that up and tell me what you want now, no, you'll have to do it. It has to be done. You... I don't know if you've put the doubt in him, no (... ), but the decision was made here, in this legislature. And that's what we're gonna do. And then, from another point of view, you seem to forget where we come from. We seem to have learned that mental health is problematic or mental health is important when we look out for health. And no. It has to be acknowledged that we have a great starting point in Euskadi fortunately, and that the deployment of mental health strategies has been a solid tool that for years, combined in addition to the social, professional and associative impulse, citizen participation – he told me – is one of the characteristics of these strategies already in previous years. He has been building an internalized and undisputed hegemonic discourse regarding the needs, approach and rights of people with a psychic disorder. Mental health care has been provided for years in Euskadi and through a wide network of services, from a community approach, and you know it. We count the specific mental health network, but also we do it from primary care that covers common mental disorders, and also, also, those pictures that without being psychiatric disorders, require in common or report an emotional discomfort. We are not confused, that is, between disorder and discomfort, which I will repeat again, but we also take care of them, and to all those resources we must add psychiatry in our hospitals. It is among the main programs that we have already developed and in which we will continue to deepen, and I will mention some of them: infant-juvenile psychiatry, personality disorders, serious mental disorder and socio-health coordination, common mental disorder and primary care, dual pathology, eating disorders, prevention of suicidal behavior, or stigma and mental health. And it also means that if we do not have in the development of all this contact with what happens in other realities other than our own, and of course we have it, and of course we look at what is done in other territories and in other countries, and we take it into account, and sometimes we learn from them and sometimes we help them also to improve. I would like to recall that during the covid new resources have been put in place as structures of (?) in day hospitals, especially aimed at the infant-juvenile population, day hospitals in eating disorders, high intensity consultations in psychiatric emergencies. They are not the result of us thinking about it today and starting it tomorrow, but because we have been working on it continuously and we have not stopped, moreover, and it has not been the result of something that is happening now, but something that we had analyzed. I really tell you, already in 2021, in the chapter on mental health, we increased both spending and investment. The latter, by the way, tripled over the previous year. And the last contribution has been the implementation of screening for the detection of major depression in adolescents, within the new children's health program. Do you think all this does not lay the foundation for a new mental health strategy? We have a good start, I assure you, but, as I said before, (... in these we shall go deep into the next strategy, how is it that we must promote mental health in all politics and the struggle against the stigma that endures the person who has a mental confusion? (... ) The establishment for the prevention of the mental health and prevention of children, published in 2019. Really, improvisation, I don't know, I'd say, creo, señora Garde, que aquaqu quien improva no presamente el Departamento de Salud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera and the EH Collector of the Medical Department, the Medical Department on the reorganization of the Carmirology of Bilbo-Burto ESI." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u86	Yes, good morning, everyone. Mrs. Chief, good morning. Look, what I'm asking you to do today is rethinking the plan of taking the Church of Hearts of the Basurto to the Cross. We'd like to ask you to rethink your decision. For this purpose we gave you many reasons on March 17th, right here at the full meeting. And we also proposed an alternative to the decision you've made, as professional health and others have done. In point of fact, what we had proposed to you was to keep the two centers of the Hearts of the Basurto Hospital and the Crossa Hospital, and to serve the whole EAE between the two sites, to end the process of the process by which they go into private life, and to end the Polyclinations which lead from Donostia to Polickinia. And consider the surgical surgery and other modern techniques that go off the EAE. [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... ending up with the debriefs. And to examine the surgical surgery and other modern techniques of the small injury of the AEs. Not only with the surgical heart of the boar, but with that of the decisions taken in different areas by the Medical Department: Be the decision of the clinic in Asuncia, be the surgical block of Bidasoa, be the health strategy, the oncological, Santiago's emergency, with the thousand accounts of the medical department, to the decision that EH has made, as well as, around the decisions he has made, he has made several proposals to the Medical Department, and he has made several observations on the decisions he has made about the decisions he has made, as well as the consequences of this decision. And even before this decision, the citizen and his professional health have been given firm answers. But here we must have heard terrible things, including personal contempt. But in the end, in so many matters, the Medical Department had to retreat in his decisions. It's always bad and late. The health department has a habit of playing side-by-side and not listening. And our question is, what's the point of studying matters with complicated agents before, professionals? Share your decisions, okay? "See now that one of your chief arguments, in the question of the boars, was in favour of your decision, and shared by the surgeon, the surgeon's heart has also been told that they are not agreed, except one. So it's a question. Will the Medical Department rethink the decision he's made about the surgeon in the hospital?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u88	Mrs. President of the Parliament, the members of the legislature again. Good morning. And you mention that we have received contempt, personalities, and a great deal of them. That's right, Mrs. Ubera. Unfortunately. The state has not obviously changed from that assembly of Parliament you mentioned in March. Then, answering a Capua Populara-Ciudadnano's interpelation and an EH Collectation question, I have shown some years ago the services for the Cross and the South heart surgery which led them to plan for the convenience of a single union. And you will remember that among the arguments to resume this project, I only included the quality of the service and the improvements. As I then explained to you, the Cardian surgeons of the Basurto took it for positive to write two services. We are now at a different time, when each professional will determine what role, what role and role each of the new services will be. Here, as is the case in all cases, there are different interests and purposes. We're working on that, but we're still on the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u90	Look, Miss Apple, seeing that almost all the hospital in the Basurto, almost all professionals, don't share the decision, you should plan for that alone. At least take a turn to the decision. Because it's essential to take decisions that are involved, because they have to be there in the day. And we think it's minimum. They probably don't get a hundred percent they want, not even a medical department. But it seems to us that it is time for us to decide between the involved agents. And it's time for you to decide when the Health Department makes up your mind to let you go with the fireworks. He must stop making fires with every decision he makes. And he should make an effort to make his decisions shared, and what's right and what's right, what's right, what's right, what's right, what's right, what's right for him to stay where he is. And to finish, I want to make one thing clear. This is not the caprice of some professional health, this is not the caprice of the hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u92	Membership doesn't act for the union of the trial with the surgical heart of the Cross, to a hospital or to another, or to save posts, or to supply the professional interests of the workers, even if they are legitimate. We're arriving at the Integration process because it's the best thing for all citizens to do in view of service's quality and future improvements. And that's not just the criterion of membership. You have been specially speaking of scientific criteria throughout the whole pandemia, in spite of the difficulties against the covid to use as a axis. And now you don't put scientific evidence in value? Some corporate interests are supposed to be more important, or are there opinions? The need to create a single service, well adapted to the reality of our population, is guaranteed by many technical works. Reports of the Spanish Society of Torade and Cardicularia, the Ministry of Health relates to the standard units of the heart's existence. (... ) Health (... ) Of the Ph.D.s of Divulgation, and of the Medical Department, which were introduced in the 2020 Basque Medical Council. The scientific associations of Europe and America are supposed to perform the minimal operations of the workers who make surgical operations, to acquire and maintain their skill, to increase their experience, and (... .). That is to say, the basis of all scientific reports, the improvement of services. And that's what we want to do. Two months ago, as I told you, we don't take any value from the hospital, do we? The professionals there. But our reasons are vital, they are scientific. Reasons needed to improve the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpialization, the parliamentary members of the American Groups of Carmelus Barrius Barroja-Chaula-Ciudadans to the chief of equality, Justice, and Society Policies, which are not yet solved, and the report made of the 379 parliaments of Europe, in the case of the terrorist party." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u94	Thank you very much, President... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] "about the report made by the Parliament of Europe around the case of murder." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u95	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good. For our group, and I believe that objectively, too, the issue report adopted in the European Parliament at its meeting of the Committee on Petitions on 20, 21 April this year is important and of reference. Clear conclusions and more than committed recommendations that set attitudes and work on the part of the various competent institutions to further advance the clarification of the 379 unresolved murders of ETA. We have to thank the Basque Country for the special attention that the European Parliament has had in relation to the situation of the victims of terrorism and the interest it has shown in the judicial situation of the attacks of the terrorist organisation ETA, which have caused so much damage especially on this land. And now is the time to respond to those recommendations and to act. Besides, there are many areas... the institutions responsible for this, including the one you represent, which is the Basque Government. To recall, the conclusions affirm quite a few issues, but I am focused on the fact that, for example, it is recognized that the figure - supported by the Spanish Ombudsman - of 379 unpunished murders today is in line with the magnitude of the situation. It has also been found that, in a significant percentage, approximately 44 per cent of ETA murders, there is no judicial sentence for all the physical perpetrators of the crimes, resulting in a lack of justice with respect to the families of the victims. Also, many of the former ETA members who were convicted of murder on their return to their places of origin have been regularly honored and welcomed on public streets. These tributes and greetings have continued to take place and are evident. It has been observed that the families of the nearly 400 victims of unresolved ETA cases have been immersed in a situation of consolidated impunity for many years, which is prolonged day after day, which affects in addition and parallel to their own rights, in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights, which prohibits all forms of undue suffering. This aspect is of particular concern to the European Parliament because the human rights of the victims of terrorism must be the first to be guaranteed and that situation must be brought to an end. She also said that victims continued to struggle to find the truth and to ensure that their needs were met and their rights respected. It also says in the report that victims must be at the centre of all the actions of the European and international institutions. He also says that there is a collective obligation to seek the truth behind each of the unresolved attacks, not only to try to do justice, but also to honor the memory of the victims and that they and their families can rest in peace. Very important and very clear conclusions from this report of the European Parliament. And in line with the conclusions are the recommendations, which also call for action by the various competent institutions at national level, at international level as well as in the proper implementation of the directives, action within the framework of the European directives. And we, as an autonomous community, as a Basque Government, have to be called upon and appealed to what action is at the national level. And we must also remember that among those recommendations is that, for example, number three, promote from all the competent institutions that the public exaltation of terrorists convicted when they leave jails for the pain and secondary victimization that it entails for the victims of terrorism, prevent the humiliation of victims through such acts by strengthening the legal instruments to make them effective in preventing impunity and revictimization. Important and clear recommendation. Also appeal from the competent institutions to those who have any information that may lead to the resolution of some of the outstanding cases to cooperate fully confidentially, protected and anonymously with the State security forces, the Administration of Justice in order to provide victims of terrorism with access to information and justice. Good. That has to be articulated too. It is being done in some way, but we must, of course, strengthen the instruments that also ensure this kind of public behaviour and behaviour. Also as a recommendation, suggest to the competent institutions that they exhaust the interpretative possibilities of criminal law, including the double recognition of ETA terrorist crimes as crimes against humanity even before 2004. Therefore, they are considered not to be subject to prescription. That is to say, important elements also legally and of significance, also logically, following that legal, also political, even historical significance. I mean... Or other suggestions, such as suggesting to the competent institutions that they exhaust the interpretative possibilities of criminal law. Well, that's there. Or, for example, that of, as a recommendation, urging the competent institutions to ensure that the benefits... to ensure that the prison benefits and treatment that may be granted to those convicted of terrorism under the Spanish legislation in force are linked to the cooperation in the clarification of all those attacks of which they are aware, as a further indication of their true regret. An important and significant issue outlined in the European Parliament's Recommendation No. 10 of the 30. And that we must also give it value, we must give it content, we must also put the batteries in relation to the fact that all this is being done. And that, and I say it again, I have read half a dozen recommendations, but it is 30 that this European Parliament's issuing report envisages. I think it's clear. No one invents this. This is the democratic majority of the European Parliament in relation to something that is still pending in our political, legal, police and judicial actions. And, in that sense, I say again, the institutions appealed can be many, there are many... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Police, judicial. And, in that sense, I say again, the institutions appealed can be many, there are many, including the Basque Government. And, therefore, we would like to see that assessment of you in relation to this report, that assessment of you, and on the basis of that assessment that I hope will be positive and that the attitude of the Government will be proactive in the context of these future actions, what the Basque Government intends to do with implementing measures to facilitate the implementation of the recommendations contained in the European Parliament's report in relation to the 379 cases of unsolved murders committed by the terrorist group ETA adopted last April 2022. I think that (?There will be the document in terms of cohabitation, in terms of necessity, in terms of support for victims, in terms of pressure for victims and those who are responsible for those crimes that are still..., for which they have not responded, so in that sense we would like the lady to give us an explanation on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u96	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u97	The chief physician, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, all the good noontides. Mr Barrio, my first words are to show my full agreement with the paragraph of the conclusions of the Mission Report, adopted by the European Parliament on 21 April. I, like you, take the paragraph that you transcribe in the justification section of your inquiry, and that I literally read: "There is a collective obligation to seek the truth behind each of the unresolved attacks, not only to try to do justice, but also to honor the memory of the victims, and that they and their families may rest in peace." I repeat, Mr Barrio, in that definition and in that statement we fully agree. Ymos leído attamete las concilesis de Ere Informe de Mision: "Our commitment to the victims and the truth of the victims is not one day. We didn't need that report and the European Parliament's agreement. This commitment has always been in our personal, institutional and political career, and it is expressly defined in our government program. As I was telling you, our commitment to the victims and to the right to the truth of the victims is not a day's flower. We did not need the report or the parliamentary agreement to put the victims at the centre of our policies. This commitment has always been present in our personal, institutional and political trajectory, and is explicit in our Government programme. There is, as a sign of a button, Law 4/2008 of 19 June on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism. There is also the creation and most significant and fruitful work of the Basque Council for the Participation of Victims of Terrorism. And as you know, this council has given birth to a solid and consensual document-proposed under a very suggestive title: "Steps to give in the area of recognition and reparation of victims of terrorism, as well as to improve and make more efficient the contribution of these victims both in the educational level and in the processes of critical reflection on the past, and, in general, in the dialogue between different". And one very important thing about this document, Mr Barrio, is that it was unanimously adopted by all the members of that council, and I repeat to you, unanimously by the whole of the Basque Council for the Participation of Victims of Terrorism. Here are also the series of reports prepared by the Pedro Arrupe Human Rights Institute of the University of Deusto, and I would like to remind you that these reports focus on various groups of victims of terrorism and violations of rights, as an expression of public recognition and reparation for those victims. And here are the programmes developed in collaboration with foundations and associations of victims of terrorism, which are approved annually by this Parliament in the budgets. And there is also the fact that the first line of action of the Plan of Co-existence, Human Rights and Diversity, Udaberri 2024, is to advance and consolidate the policies of recognition and reparation to the victims of terrorism. I have read you textually, Mr Barrio, and works are love, and those love, which in this case signify firm and determined commitment to the victims of terrorism and to their right to the truth. In the case you mention and which gives rise to the inquiry into the 379 victims of still unresolved ETA murders, there is the "Report on the procedural situation of the attacks perpetrated by terrorist organizations resulting in death between 1960 and 2014". This report, prepared at the request of the Basque Government, quantified and classified the procedural situations of cases of unclarified deadly attacks perpetrated by terrorist organizations. This was a pioneering initiative that no other Government has ever launched. Nor had any PP government, Mr Barrio, launched such an initiative. And, more recently, there are the Memory and Recognition Papers, an initiative that aims to humanize these 379 victims, and maintain their memory and contribute to their right to truth and justice. As you know, each notebook is accompanied by an official accreditation, a solemn and express declaration of institutional recognition by the Basque Government. A statement proclaiming that the violation of the right to life of each of the victims was a radical injustice that should never have occurred, and that nothing had greater value than their life and dignity." Mr. Barrio, we know that many victims of terrorism have not attained the judicial truth of their case. We will continue to commit ourselves to the right of truth. The institutional, social... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the judicial truth. We will continue to commit ourselves to the right of truth. We shall continue with this right to the truth of the institutional, social, and moral duty. Mr. Barrio, we are fully aware that a large number of victims of terrorism have not obtained the judicial truth, have not been repaired from an effective judicial perspective, but for this Government, the victims, as I said, are at the centre of our policies, and we continue and will remain committed to their right to the truth. I remain and will remain committed to that right to the truth that entails an institutional, moral and social duty. And we owe it to those 379 victims and their families and to the whole of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u99	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Artolazabal, for your reply, for the conformity you have shown with at least the initial approach with which we made the inquiry and with the conclusion of that collective obligation to seek the truth. In this case, I believe that we are at a time when we are taking one more step, one more step, after the preparation of this report by the European Chamber. Indeed, 379 victims. Something has not worked well in relation to the identification of those responsible, with the processes, something is there. Something must continue to be done by all the institutions, starting with the State Administration, the Administration of Justice, but also by political areas, where they have many things to say, such as the area in which we move and where the Government of course acts. And you have made clear mention – and I too – of the Udaberri Plan, on line one, to that advance and consolidate the policies of recognition and reparation to the victims of terrorism. This report is set up there. That is to say, this is where the report drawn up by the European Parliament has to be set up: on line number one of the Udaberri Plan in relation to coexistence. Resolution, work in relation to these 379 victims, the families of these victims and the recognition and compensation are a necessity. There is the recognition and reparation of the victims of terrorism. So, I ask you, please, that in that step more than today for this qualitative element that we have to install this report on the lines of action of the Udaberri Plan. I think it's gonna be good for everyone. And, of course, I also ask you to deal with this report on the Victims' Participation Council. I know that the Council is meeting, dealing with different issues, but it is very clear that this is a very important qualitative element at the moment, because it is the fruit of the agreement, it is the result of the absolutely majority agreement in the European Parliament, in addition to putting the crimes of ETA unsolved a iter, a path, to be followed in relation to progress in this reparation, in this recovery of memory of course, and of justice, which is the fundamental element. I believe that it must be dealt with in that Basque Council for the participation of the victims of terrorism, because there are elements in which the Basque Government has much to say. It is a good area, the study and the implementation of different actions, we will look at it and we will ask the government. Recommendation 10 on the situation of prison grades; something may also be said by the Basque Government in connection with linking this collaboration with justice on some issues. Or recommendation three on tributes. I think the report is very clear, and you said yes. And I am also a witness and am aware of the reports made by the Basque Government concerning the quantification of situations of these characteristics. That is to say, we must take one more step: we must move from the quantification to the qualification, to the attitude, with all the instruments of the rule of law, in all the instruments of the rule of law that are hosted by the Basque Government, also in order to make further progress on that path. It is a report, that of the European Parliament - that is why we give it the courage we give - that it must be taken very seriously, because I believe that, again, the analysis of reality here is part of the agreement. And I also suggest to you, not only because of the action of the Basque Government in the areas you have mentioned, but also in other areas such as security or in the administration as a whole, that I think it is a very good time this report is to coordinate actions with the central government to do so, to strengthen of course what the recommendations of this report call for, among other things, to prevent tributes to ETA members who come out, for example, which is something that is pending. I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u100	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u101	Thank you, President. It's something that's pending and that's a good job that you could coordinate with the central government on how to find a way out of all that, or that they sanction shows as pitiful as that of the last Korrika in relation to... This cannot go unnoticed, because it humiliates the victims. That is to say, as I said before, we must take one more step, we must install this European Parliament report on the lines of the Udaberri Plan and on the actions of the Basque Government, in order for the victims to have justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u102	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u103	You said, Mr Barrio, that this document was adopted mostly in the European Parliament, and it is true, but I would like to remind you of a detail that for me, as your adviser, and for the Government, it is key: the delegation of the European Parliament which visited the Spanish State in November and which is the author of the report to which you refer and which gives rise to the agreement of the European Parliament did not contact the Basque Government - at no time did it contact the Basque Government - which is the one with the competence in the matter of memory, in the matter of many of the issues that you have mentioned to me, which are the ones we have to do. Nor do I know that I did so with other Basque institutions, such as this Parliament, for example. You know the president of the... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... He has quoted me, which are the ones we have to do. Nor do I know that I did so with other Basque institutions, such as this Parliament, for example. You know that the president of that delegation was repeatedly urged to contact the Basque Government, and she did not contact us, with whom she is the first actor of all the policies of truth, memory and recognition of the victims of terrorism. I don't know why you handle it that way, Mr. Barrio. Because if I am... It's very important to me, Mr. Barrio. Since we are the competent ones in this matter... in this matter so relevant, so important for this country, that the person who is going to carry on that report who talks to us and who has no relationship whatsoever, for me it is an important issue and that, well, it denotes some number of issues. And for me it is incomprehensible the deplanting, which, of course, will not condition our political action, that is for sure. As I have reminded you, our attitude is of absolute firmness and commitment to the victims of terrorism and to their right to the truth. Perhaps someone should explain why this desire to exclude the Basque Government in a number of matters, even though we are then asked a number of questions. Look, Mr Barrio, the causes of the incomplete non-clarification or clarification of the 379 cases to which this report refers are many and varied. Some may be due to the difficulty of bringing to fruition investigations into cases produced more than 40 years ago. Because I remind you that 70% of these unclarified cases were in the 1970s and early 1980s. Or it can also be due to the prescription of criminal liability. Of course there is coordination in this area and in all matters with any institution on the part of this Government. And we will continue to contribute our granite sand to restore the right to the truth and the recognition of these victims. And we will do so, as we have done so far, Mr Barrio, respecting the existing legal framework, that of the rights and freedoms recognized in it. And we will also do so respecting the principle of non-retroactivity of laws. We apply the current legality in an objective and individualized way in the part that has to do with grade progressions. We have been clear in the receptions of ETA prisoners. We will do so by claiming the dignity and recognition of these victims and of all the victims. And we will keep his memory alive. And we will also do so by exploring new avenues that can contribute to a truth that is not exhausted only in the judicial process, Mr Barrio. We will continue to work and continue to add without making noise and without making artificial and interested polemics. And I'm sure, Mr. Barrio, that path that you and I share can be able to build between the two. But, of course, this Government will not find us in sterile discussions that bring nothing to coexistence, to coexistence, which is what we want to build among all of us, for this society that has suffered so much for so many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 15th point in the theme list: The question is, "To ask the question of the question, of the question of the question of my own, of the interest of the members of the D.H.S.C.S.C.S.C.S.C.S.S.C.C.C.I.S. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. According to a final examination of the Western observation of the Social Services and the Society of the Gerentes, the attention which has been given to the subjects of the Artaba, Gipus, and Bizia has been reduced to 0.02 of submission, and in other communities of the State, as well as to the one, as to the other, 8,71. Según el informe, las listas de spermra se in redudo un 3.45, pero no porque haya aidea las aetaciones, sino por involuntari del las auis, os sea, porque fallidei. And according to our study, 2,35 people died the year before, waiting on our list. "235 peoples fallicieron specura nosinción que no llegó." El studio nos concede un adecdo raspado. This is an indication of a disturbing state which is to be followed by an indication of a mistake. And that's why we want to ask you if you'll do anything to correct it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Miss Artola generous... (?...?) from where.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u107	For you and for me, Mrs Kortajarena, attention to dependent people is a concern and an occupation for the Government. And it is also so for the outlaws and for the municipalities, which are competent in this matter. According to the Unit Observatory, with data from the Ministry's statistical system as at 31 December 2020, the number of dependants in Euskadi was 65,757 and one year later was 65,741. As you say, a difference of 16 people, which implies a reduction of 0.02%. Based on these facts, to say that we have erred in the attention of people who are dependent on us, is a malingerpation. I'll give you some data that can help you interpret this data. In 2021 we were at levels of contagion with socio-health protocols and action that did not allow for normal activity neither in access to social resources, nor in dependency assessments, nor in requests by citizens. Nor can we escape the consequences of the number of deaths that the pandemic has continued to cause on dependent people, which you yourself alluded to. We cannot forget the fear on the part of families and the dependents themselves to request and avail themselves of the resources and benefits. And these different causes have led to a lower rate, but they have never stopped caring for anyone. The demands that have arrived have been answered. The Pandemia have been less numerous than before, and they have answered as well as they can. The comparison between autonomous communities is not correct without making clear the very different starting point. And I read it literally. "The disparity between territories in the development of the dependency system, unfortunately, has been one of the most defining elements of the system." Opinion after opinion, the Observatory has pointed out and denounced the huge differences in coverage, priorities... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... "...one of the most defining elements of the system." Opinion after opinion, the Observatory has pointed out and denounced the huge differences in coverage, priorities, waiting lists, speed of incorporation into the system, isn't it? Thus, the situation in terms of coverage and the number of people on the waiting list is completely different in one community and another. And the situation in the care of dependence in Euskadi is good, Mrs Kortajarena. Badakizu bear egoa onean gaudela beast autonomy erkidego batzuekin alderatua. Hala jaso from Behatokian, hauetan guttietan. And so it is recognized by the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 30. And don't hesitate that we will continue to work on improving that data, that data, with the aim of returning to the activity and the pace of assessment and resolution we had before the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u109	Yes, thank you. Now, it may be disputed, according to the interpretation of the data, whether the comparisons are adequate or not, sometimes and sometimes not, but the attention has not increased. And this, I think, is but another chapter of the decay we have so often entertained. Look, the Basque system of social services faces its third consecutive year without planning; the third. Where is the II Strategic Social Services Plan? We have been without a road map during the worst of the pandemic, when the system has surely suffered one of its biggest blows. And after what we have experienced, which has given birth to all the seams of the system, we continue without a road map. And in all this time, and despite everything we have experienced, for example, in residences, there has been no change in a single comma of system regulation; not a single one. When all the experts tell us that the experience has highlighted the need for a change of model, we are still waiting for whether or not the revision of the residence decree will finally arrive, which the majority of this Parliament has asked you to do and which you have promised to do. And if that were small, you even refused to examine the matter together. For many years and matricians, we've been reformed in social order and laws, but we're losing that position. And there's probably different reasons, but there's one between them, and the boss, that's your lack of leadership and your political decision to develop the public system of euscan societies. Zure agintaldian, Artolazabal andrea, there has been little regulatory development of the service portfolio: a decree. Reports from social service managers have been alerting about the loss of efficiency of the system and have recommended its revision. We have a report from the Ararteko - I think from 2017 - that told us about saturated basic services, about territorial inequalities: no corrective action has been taken. And it took us five years to get the evaluation of the previous strategic plan. Five years without any kind of monitoring, evaluation and no corrective action. The impact of the pandemic has not even been analysed in this assessment. And one finding: that you bet without disguise for the most extreme form of privatization, which is that of the service checks, which reduces the cost of services but increases the expenditure of families, and thus dependence also becomes an element that generates social inequalities. Eta denbora honetan guztian, henera, honen inguruko eztabaida publiko bat irekitzeari uko egin diazue. Result: a model that solves the care of dependent people in a scarce, unequal way depending on where everyone lives, sexist, mercantile and that generates social inequalities. Eta niretzako larriena: ezin bermatu dezakeena gizarte zerbitzuetarako onartua dugun skubidea, which is why the managers tell us that we are the best. Eta hau, hau, egora hau, educaren gainbehera hau ez da onargarria, Artolazabal salilburua.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u111	Decline of the model, as interpreted. Of course, for you everything is wrong and everything is a total ruin. But I do believe, Mrs Kortajarena, that the results are there; the data are objective. The assessment of the first strategic plan has been made, we are working on the elaboration of the second strategic plan, I have undertaken to make that revision of the residence decree - and we are in it -. There has indeed been a road map to be able to deal with the situation of the covid with guarantees. It has been a very complicated situation, it has been a close collaboration with the Department of Health, which has indeed led this attention. And I sincerely believe that, given the circumstances in which we were, the response that the Government and the institutions have given has been the best we could and knew. But, going to concrete data, I would like to say that Euskadi is one of the best and most caring communities in the area of dependency.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with the parliamentary laws of the Podemos-IU, was made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society, concerning the Decreection of the Civil War." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u113	Yeah. Thank you, chief physician. Last summer - you will recall - we were surprised by a number of headlines in several media outlets, according to which the Basque Government ended the process of exhuming missing persons in the Civil War. You already replied to me in committee that they felt that this was not true, that it was more of a response to some perhaps misguided headlines, or to the interpretation that our group might have made of them. The point is that the current Gogora action plan for the years 2021 to 2024 explicitly or literally states that the exhumation process in Euskadi has been completed, and does not indicate the intention to implement a new plan. We are therefore obliged to ask the Government again whether it considers the phase of investigation, tracing and exhumation of graves and possible missing persons in the Civil War to be completed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u114	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Artolazabal andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u115	Eskerrik asko, Mr Hernández. What has happened has been a conclusion of a plan that ended in 2020, because there was and there is no data that supports us that exist... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... what has happened has been a conclusion of a plan that ended in 2020, because there was, and there is no data that supports us that there are widespread pits in which we have to act. Those who had already exhumed the people who were there buried. That does not mean that if there are indications anywhere in Euskadi that we may have the possibility of human remains as a result of a training we can continue to act, and therefore we will definitely continue to work on the exhumations of those remains, provided that there is objective and scientific evidence to support their assistance. The fact that we made that balance sheet does not mean that we have paralyzed, as I said. Proof of this is that we continue to have in place the Missing Persons Search Program in Gogora with the agreement that we have in place more than 20 years ago with the Society of Orange Science. And we continue to investigate and exhumanize whenever we have indications that there are those human remains of the Civil War. As you all know, we have recently made known the discovery and exhumation of the largest pit that has been found in Euskadi, Bilbao, in the Begoña cemetery. In this pit we have recovered remains of 42 Gudaris and missing militiamen in the Civil War. We have already contacted families with whom we have proven documentary evidence to be able to advance the identifications, and we are managing DNA sampling for later collation with the localized remains. Work is also under way with some 20 families who have confirmed that a family member was able to disappear in the fights prior to the fall of Bilbao. And our goal is for more people with missing family members in the war to approach Gogora in order to find them. We want you to contact especially those people who lost track of the fall of Bilbao in June 1937. But in addition to this exhumation, other new exhumations took place in 2021. One is that of the gudari in the cemetery of Zarautz on July 13, 2021; on September 17, 2021 the cemetery of Vista Alegre of Bilbao and the identification of the gudari Jesús Izagirre Arsuaga to be handed over to his family in Gabiria. 36 individuals in Oiartzun, and also in September 2021, from the funeral monument erected in 1977. In the cemetery of Begoña, the largest pit I told him, with 76 human remains of the Civil War. We have also carried out explorations in the cemetery of Orduña, Otxandio, Durango... with negative result. Also in other places such as Betsaide, Mount Satamaña of Elorrio, in Gorozika or in Galdames. And, as you can see, we are still fully active. Whenever there's a hint, we'll continue to investigate, Mr. Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u116	Thank you. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u117	Yeah. Thank you. Sailburu, precisely because of the data that you have now put on the table, and because you have actually already answered me that you do not want to say what I say: that you will leave your exhumation pits when you have to exhume them. But precisely because of all that, we are drawn to the attention that the Basque Government, and Gogora in this case, does not propose a new plan of research and location of graves. We don't understand why we had a plan so far, it was acting on a plan, and now if we have possible pits and possible locations of missing persons, disappear that plan. And in this sense, we would also like to transfer you that we miss in the balance sheet of the previous Foas Localization Plan a valuation. That balance sheet seemed very poor to us, counselor. It is a balance sheet where there is hardly a description of the exhumed pits, but there is little information about those locations or pits that have discarded them in that previous plan. Therefore, we ask you to draw up a planning, perhaps it will no longer be in Gogora's action plan which, as you know, we have also not opposed not to put sticks on the wheels, but we think it has to be done in a planned way. We have to investigate. It is not just a matter of waiting for possible cases to arrive, in this case to the Department or often directly to Aranzadi. Note, in the previous plan, most of the pits that were included have been discarded for exhumation. I believe that 73 out of 128, for different reasons, are not in the balance sheet of the reasons why they have been discarded. We know that some of them after a review can be assessed for their possible exhumation. We have proposed, and it has also been approved in this Parliament, that the Ulia pit be reviewed, because there was also no work. That pit was included in the 2015-2020 Plan, and absolutely nothing had been done. On the basis of a preliminary report for 2003, its possible exhumation had been ruled out. And in addition, we have examples in the same balance sheet that you have presented of other things that in previous times your possible exhumation was discarded, and thanks to the pressure and work of different memorialist associations, finally exhumed and remains of bodies of persons disappeared in the Civil War appeared. Therefore, we, in addition to taking advantage to make that criticism, that balance sheet that we consider to be quite poor that has been presented, we think that this is not a balance sheet, there are no conclusions, there is no assessment, there is simply a list of the pits that have been exhumed, but there is a balance sheet, conclusions and lack of information also about those that have been discarded. But above all, we ask you to make a planning from the Department, from Gogora on the research work and location of possible pits.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Time is up. Now, Miss Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u119	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Hernandez, I believe you are aware, and you also share with me the determined commitment that the Government has in the matter of memory, we have shown. I think the work that has been going on for a long time is there. What happens is that the 2015-2020 Plan based on a series of scientific data that was being worked out, and so it was designed with the Aranzadi Society, it concluded, because in Euskadi there are no more pits that have enough technical data so that we can include them in a plan. It is true that those issues that can be put on the table with real indications that there may be remains will continue to be worked out. And specifically with Ulia, there in principle it was discarded because technically it seemed not to... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... real evidence that there may be remains will continue to be worked. And specifically with Ulia, there in principle it was discarded because technically it seemed that there was nothing, it seems that there may be some indication. And soon we will resume that investigation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmelo Barrio Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the Cultura and the head physician of the political race, was made to run. 'about the edition.' Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u121	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Good morning again. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Good. Counselor, in the last edition of the Korrika, of the Basque party, serious things happened, very serious things, from our point of view. That the Korrika in one of its kilometers becomes a tribute to ETA, or a demanding act of radical exhibitionism, or a walk, with children included, of one of the criminals because it is not fair. It's not fair, Counselor. It's not fair that in its edition... in its XXII edition, the euskera heritage character has been manipulated from the organization itself to politicize its cultural and social expression and try to make it a vindictive symbol of the worst expression of abertzalist and rupture. And in that they tried some, and they got it, to convert... Partly... They got part of converting Korrika. And in that sense, you pay, counselor. It does not pay for responsibilities, of course it pays because you fund part of that Korrika and part of those kilometers, like other institutions, and part of the organizers' actions. That is to say, in this sense, I believe that today more than ever in this House you have to evaluate how Basque has been used in this case, the cultural heritage of all Basques, to identify it, in this case, politically as a symbol of division in the last edition of the Korrika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u122	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u123	Mr. President, Congressman, Mr. Barrio, good morning. Several weeks ago, I expressed the opinion of the Basque Government as its spokesman and also my opinion as a member of the Council of Culture and Linguistic Policy in relation to the matter on which you are asking me today. Korrika is a private initiative, organized by AEK, which aims to raise funds for its operation. Since it emerged in the difficult 1980s, edition by edition, it has been gaining strength and attracting more and more support from Basque citizens, until it became a social initiative in defense and demand of the promotion of learning and use of Basque. I think it is excellent news that an initiative in favour of Basque has achieved so much support and so active a position of Basque society in a multitude of ways. And it's good news that Korrika, like other initiatives, has managed to bring so different people together. However, as I said a few weeks ago, there have been individuals and groups who have wanted to take advantage of this massive and media initiative as a platform for other demands, including those related to ETA prisoners. The Basque Government does not share the behaviour of those who have wanted to take advantage of Korrika for other purposes. And we understand and sympathize with the discomfort that certain images have caused in the groups close to the victims of ETA. In our opinion, this use of Korrika does a weak favor to the objective of adding forces around the euskera impulse because it ideologicalizes it and gives the impression that it is partisan, and not adds, subtracts, and offends the feeling of many of the people who have added their forces in favor of the euskera participating in the Korrika. The normalization of the euskera is a challenge and a demand shared by the majority of society and needs the greatest possible unity. And today it is the duty of the institutions, in my opinion, of all the citizens, to protect the prestige of the euskera and to free it from other backpacks and claims. The promotion of knowledge and use of euskera needs the support and adherence of all. And it is up to everyone to create a favourable climate for this accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u124	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u125	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, counselor, for your position also in relation to the rejection of these attitudes. And, indeed, it is excellent news that more people are going up every day. But it is a great disappointment also what happened the last edition of the Korrika. And, indeed, the great news sometimes goes into trouble with major disappointments. And this political use by those who defend ETA because, logically, it has been a great disappointment, because it is impossible to link ETA with our cultural heritage, among other things. And that's why I want to ask you what you're going to do. What are you going to do? Let's see, you can't give public money to these unfortunate shows. Organizers must understand that this is not good for coexistence, it is not good for society, it is not good for the Basque. I mean, it's not credible the organizers' assertion that they can't control that, it's not true. If the subsidy is threatened, they will take action, I assure you. And it is not possible that we continue in this key and that some, the left abertzale, Bildu, continue to try to politicize the euskera whenever he can. It is incompatible with that politicization of the Basque country with the assertion that we all understand the cultural heritage of this country. And besides, Mr. Counsellor, there's something you need to do. And something has to be done because AEK must condemn this use... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... of this country's cultural heritage. And besides, Mr. Counsellor, there's something you need to do. Something has to be done because AEK must condemn this malicious use of Korrika and must take and announce measures. If he does not, he will be disqualified to receive public money, as he will prove that he does not know how to preserve the euskera of totalitarian positions. Let's hope you do something.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Time is up. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u127	Mr. Barrio, one of the things I'm going to do is be careful in my statements and in my statements. If I'm not wrong, the day before the Korrika began, you presumed before all of us that you had participated in other previous editions, and regretted not being able to do so in this one because you had been summoned by your president to Congress in Valencia. In Seville. So one of the things I'm going to do is be careful and, two, try to promote the best possible environment, so that these things don't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon.
