ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'll let you know that two lords and ladies have taken the vote. First point in theme list: "A full correction to the project presented by the public employment law. The discussion and the vote. The word is yours, Mrs Garagisa.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u1	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. To-day, in accordance with the legislation established in the calendar, I give an opportunity of reconnoitring the project of the Basque Office on the 6th of July last year. On the 7th of July, 2021, after I had brought him to this parliamentary law, I made a scene in front of the institution, the government, and the Security Board, in the 26th of October, to present the principal features and purposes of the law. It is essential that this bill of law, which sets the foundation for the employment model for the entire public euscal sector. In this respect the project has two ends; to organize and define the system of the public employment and its management tools; and to regulate the legal guide of the workmen who compose it. Today's regulation has been a long time since the 6/1989 law on the Public Basque Function has been introduced in force. This law permitted the public euscal administration to establish the structures of public employment necessary to provide our services. It's over 30 years, and it's definitely necessary that our jobs in the public sector should be introduced into a new system organisation and regulation. Euscala is the model of public employment to adapt to the changes which have been committed in the administration. In a society which is constantly changing, we must provide for tools which give us the opportunity of adapting to the wants of the community, with a greater degree of exigence and demands. We must be able to answer these public administrations in an efficient and efficient manner, and that is why we must have a system of managing people in order to respond as best we can to this reality. Our aim is, therefore, to establish a legal framework that will allow us to deepen the Basque model of employment for the whole Basque public sector, oriented towards the quality of service and relations with citizens. A model of its own that continues to consolidate Basque public employment as an egalitarian, impartial and responsible institution, with a high level of professionalism and leadership in managing results. Following these initial reflections, I would like to highlight some key issues regarding the drafting and shaping of this bill. The preparation of this project has been thorough. In the course of its proceedings, numerous entities, bodies and institutions, as well as the social partners, have taken part; numerous allegations and contributions have been collected and the text has been supplemented and enriched. Many of the issues relating to the management of persons raised at the time by the social partners were simply set out in this bill. In this way, the development and implementation of concrete content was left for a later period. A further development subject, always, to the rules of collective bargaining with these social agents. There is wide scope for the participation of different actors in the necessary legislative developments that this law will demand. There is no better way to highlight collective bargaining - in addition to a full title dedicated to its regulation - than to establish a general framework such as this, subjecting it to the rules of negotiation with social actors. On the other hand, I note - not without a certain astonishment - that one of the criticisms about this text is that it does not solve the problem of... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... On the other hand, I note - not without a certain astonishment - that one of the criticisms they cast on this text is that it does not solve the problem of the interinity of our administrations. In this regard, it should be noted that the Basque Government has been the only Government which, when no one was raising anything concrete about the reduction of the levels of interinity, made a number of concrete proposals in Parliament. The regulatory provisions that were part of this bill, absolutely innovative and pioneering at the time, were supported by the trade union representation, and became part of the bill on bodies and scales; the bill was introduced, debated and passed at this office on 11 November. In any case, as I have already indicated, this new legislative text seeks to establish a legal framework for moving towards greater integration and homogenisation of the public employment policies of Euskadi. For this, we lay the foundations of a shared soil, from which each Administration will be able to develop its organizational capacity. Integrative vocation, therefore, with absolute respect for the organizational autonomy of each of the institutional levels. In addition, it is proposed to establish the Public Employment Coordination Commission, a forum in which the different institutional levels can share experiences, pool criteria or promote common policies for public employees. This is a rule that drives a paradigm shift in the way of articulating Basque public employment, activating innovative elements in management, aimed at achieving a high degree of professionalism, responsibility, motivation and objectivity of the public service. That is why we are proposing a new vertebration of public employment around people and their development. In this sense, and with regard to the doubts that certain figures that arise seem to be generating, the most convenient thing for proper management is that they are reflected in the law with due transparency, according to the regulation marked and from an absolutely professional key. To the extent that this and other content of people management tools and instruments are collected and regulated, albeit succinctly, we will be in a better position for their further implementation and development. In this connection, I would like to refer explicitly to some of these instruments: professional careers, for example, will make it possible, where appropriate, to have the necessary legal support to promote the effective negotiation aimed at their implementation in Basque public employment. A professional career from its conception as a management tool to make the operation and provision of service to citizens more efficient. Professional public management is also regulated, linked to accredited vocational training for the performance of the functions inherent in this type of staff. To this end, it is envisaged that procedures will be developed based on the principles of merit, capacity-worthiness, publicity and competition. Performance evaluation is incorporated, emphasizing the substantive elements of this important tool for improving management and driving staff professional development. Different tools for planning, selecting and providing human resources are also included, with the aim of providing the system with greater agility in people's access to employment. These and other issues incorporated in the bill will undoubtedly be key elements in the new Basque public employment model that I am talking about. And it is that, undoubtedly, an objective analysis of the task performance and contextual performance of public employees, without this we will hardly be able to articulate a public job that gives an efficient and effective service. All the measurements arranged in this bill are intended to respond to new challenges that may be in the public employment field. In their development and settings, we can check and evaluate the result. I hope to co-operate with all the persons who are responsible for the administration of society and of our administration. To conclude, this law rests on the principle of equality, in the general sense. Genero-Difference: the other, respecting the social equality of business and opportunity. Language difference: Previews adapting to rules of text and the requirements of the basic legislation. And the difference of choice: society in public employment. After all, it is certainly a law that helps to strengthen the model of our public employment, which gives the value of public labor, and deeps it into immediate, modern, effective, and conventional attention to the people. Finally, I'd like to get a phrase from the correct team. For by the mouth of his spokesman, on the 26th of the October he left, when I had occasion to present this project of law, he declared that this project was of great importance, and that he would give his own and two, while he was at the law, he might have agreed to find out a last text. He said more: that there are laws which seem to be necessary to him, and that law is precisely this law. I therefore seize this message, and I again stretch out my hand to you this indispensable law, in order to receive it with as great an agreement as possible in this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Together Podemos-Nozzer is the representative of the Animate team, in order to defend its full correction. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours. [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u3	Mrs. head of the table, thank you. Partners. Mrs. Chief. Indeed, our group attaches great importance to this law. We are not going to detract from one of those words to which you have referred, because it is true, and in addition to the counselor has pointed out, a law is necessary that, at the very least, updates the old Public Service Act. For many years now, the Basque Government has been raising the need and has worked - we recognize it - and has worked so that at some point it can see the light of a law on public employment, which we do, in fact, say that a law on Basque public employment is necessary in Euskadi. But we have also mentioned a number of other issues. We in this House have always argued that in every initiative, whether it is a simple non-legislative proposal or a bill, such as this, we will operate on the basis of content, not on the basis of strategies and tactics. And we have said to the Councilwoman on more than one occasion and we have said in the committees that such a law, a law on public employment, in our view, is important, it is essential that it be preceded by an agreement with the social partners who are representative of the employees of the public sector. Because she pointed out a number of issues. People management system. Indeed, how can it be a system of management of people without having a prior agreement precisely with the representatives of those people who are the public sector workers and workers in the Basque Country? A model of his own. An own model is important. But a model of who? We believe that there is a fundamental role for the representatives of public employees. And we would have liked this bill to have been preceded by an agreement with the social partners, so that we could give... so that those challenges could be effectively addressed. Because she also pointed out the counselor who hopes to have social actors in the development of the law. We think that precisely in order to sow a good seed in order to pretend to have social agents in the development of the law, that seed would have been a prior agreement with those social agents. Otherwise, I believe that there is a risk of the future conflict, which we certainly do not want. In that sense, and for those reasons, we are submitting an amendment as a whole. Of course we're going to talk about content. We have also tabled some partial amendments, as you know. But we felt that it was necessary for our group to table an amendment in its entirety for a number of reasons, but there is one fundamental, and it is the core - and surely my speech today will be very repetitive - but for us it is very important and it is fundamental. We believe that there are certain kinds of laws - and of course this is one - that have to come to Parliament with previous work, with a consensus with the social partners. We're talking about a public employment law. We therefore consider it necessary to put this amendment in its entirety. We know the correlation of Parliament's forces. We're not naive. We know what the result of the vote will be. But we want to show our rejection of this bill primarily for those reasons. A law to regulate public employment should, in our view, be preceded by that agreement with trade unions. And in this case, beyond the words I have heard, we have heard the trade unions here in Parliament say that there has not even been a negotiation on this matter. The Basque Government is constantly talking about the importance of dialogue - we agree - and of agreements. But then we understand that with this law it has not been practiced or at least not practiced enough to give good results, that it would have been that we did not meet the opposition of the representatives of the unions when they passed through the House. It wasn't like that. And the Government, for we understand that it is aware of its absolute majority, for it intends to pass the law without this prior agreement. And we cannot initial that, and therefore we oppose the law. And what we are seeking to ask this Parliament to return to the government is not to mark a point to the government, even if it had... even if the government were in a minority, but, as it were, give it a chance, because we believe that the legislature still has some time left, give it a chance, a margin, so that it can sit with the unions again and reach an agreement. Beyond even the important lack of negotiation and lack of prior agreement, the text finally put forward in the current draft law has this unanimous rejection of all trade union centres. That is to say, they have not profiled themselves, even if there is no agreement with them, but have openly expressed to us that they are opposed to it. Of all of them, too. We have not found even an anchor on any side of the trade union to be able to value another type of positioning. Both the large class unions and the professional unions have heard them raise their position against the text. And, therefore, we consider it inappropriate to pass the public employment law as long as it has the unanimous rejection of all trade union centres in the country. We think, as I said, that there is still half a legislature theoretically and that the Basque Government has plenty of time to process a law that is the product of agreement with representatives of public workers. We think that that would be the best guarantee of a law that would be useful and that could guarantee in that development of the law, in addition, to be accompanied by the work of the representatives of... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... which can guarantee in this development of the law, moreover, to be accompanied by the work of the representatives of the public workers. Adopting legislation on public employment with the rejection of public employees does not seem in any way advisable to ensure stable legislation, even if the law was very well done. On the contrary, the norm was born with a framework, with a certain framework of instability, and probably as a focus of future conflict. We don't think it's right for us to accept the law of public employment which all the Basque unions reject unanimously. We think it's just a long time before you're able to understand a law that's going to be the product of public employees' representatives. Together, Podemos-IU thinks it's necessary to plan this full correction to stand against the present bill of law on euska and demand the Parliament to return to the Euskal. Secondly, we have to point out that this lack of negotiation prior to the draft law is moved into the text, in our view, to the future day of government management on issues affecting public employees. The draft incorporates a number of rules which together imply a certain devaluation of the collective bargaining right referred to by the adviser herself. We do not share your assessment of this and the role of the staff union itself. We believe that even in the whole of the previous process, collective bargaining has been replaced by a simple formulation of allegations within a time frame set by the trade unions, as always, very limited to successive drafts, and that it has only exceptionally resided in the framework of a negotiating table without the necessary regulatory guarantees. It is not only in our view that the law guarantees the obligation to negotiate common subjects, which does not, in our view, sufficiently the current text proposed, but also to understand that the law on public employment without adequate guarantees for collective bargaining makes it unthinkable to move forward in a comprehensive, rational and efficient model of the Basque Administration, since it requires cross-cutting mechanisms of entry, promotion, career mobility, management and structure of public employment, planning, etc., which in our view remain very open, as well as those which enable the maximum degree of homogenization of remuneration and functional working conditions to be achieved, which are perfectly compatible with scrupulous respect for local and foral autonomy or for different administrations, and which are logically essential elements of a universal public service and in equality and efficiency. We believe that it would be essential to shield that collective bargaining and the active participation of trade union organizations in this rule, and we believe that as it is collected, it does not do so. The trade union role cannot be limited to mere presence and accompaniment to institutional actions without the possibility of exercising a certain control based on a capacity – I believe this is important – of permanent knowledge and continuous participation that trade union agents have in relation to public employment and in relation to the day-to-day operation of public administrations. The draft law should ensure collective bargaining that offers legal certainty and full firmness to agreements that can be reached so that they cannot be altered by circumstances that have arisen, unless expressly agreed. And any new body that can be created affecting public employment must have the presence of the most representative trade union organizations, not in a witness way. It is also a rule which cannot generate a more than desirable homogenisation of the working conditions of all and all public employees of the Autonomous Community from the point of view of respect, of course, for the specific characteristics of each administration. We don't question that. But we think that this homogenization is also very important when it comes to overcoming historical and in some cases endemic comparative aggravations, as well as functional gaps, even wages between different administrations. Nor can we share the principle incorporated into the draft law, according to which one of the principles to be followed by the retributive system is that of the sustainability of wages within the framework of the public resources available, because unfortunately we have plenty of experience, especially in relation to the previous one... to the previous financial crisis, not only in this administration, but also at the general level of the state. We think, and we have heard this also to the unions, that this is a kind of enabling clause that allows the public authorities not only to freeze future wages, but also to reduce them in exceptional cases, even with regard to those that are part of budget laws, or that are the product of agreements and agreements already initialled, which then fail to comply with the argument of the availability of resources. This is unacceptable from the point of view of trade unions and which we support, as the availability of resources may differ according to the priorities set by the Government at each juncture. It is not clearly objective, it is a lack of security for rights, which are the labour rights of public workers. The text, in our view, also lacks the necessary tools to prevent the ageing of the templates and to encourage their rejuvenation. The fundamental question that should be dealt with in greater depth and with greater concreteness in this law, without any doubt, because it is a problem, this is a problem I would say the Basque administrations own. And one of the most controversial issues that I have also found to be referred to by the adviser, included in the rule and which has our rejection, is the way, the way in which the figure of professional management is included, because it is true that this figure exists, exists in the EBEP, but we do not agree with how it is included in the rule. Its scope affects, as you are well aware, posts which are the administrative structure of the General Administration itself, such as the current directorates of the services of the various councils, extending this model to all the outside and local administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community. The executive function is added to that of posts of free designation and senior government officials. We understand... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... of outside and local authorities of the Basque Autonomous Community. The executive function is added to that of posts of free designation and senior government officials. We understand that it is an approach that can be dangerous, to contain it in the norm in this way, because in our opinion it can facilitate the figure of the political adviser in key positions of the administrative management and public services, something that now reaches a high volume as a result of the widespread use of contingent personnel, of free designation, advisers, etc. Above all, we are concerned about public opinion, which is taking place in parallel with and in contrast to the practice of freezing functional staff and the reduction of active staff by the practical abolition of temporary disability replacements, etc., which has been solidly dealt with. And lastly, the bill does not, in our view, address a specific regulation aimed at ensuring the permanence and strengthening of public services, and with them the public jobs associated with them, in order to move away from the increasingly widespread political tendency to privatization, outsourcing, to call it as they wish in any form and through its various mechanisms, which is something that could also have been included in this law. This law could also have shielded public services, essential public services such as education, education, which we always talk about, but also other services which, of course, in the view of our parliamentary group, are also essential or essential public services. We think that these should not be at the dawn, I do not know whether of ideology or position, of the party that governs at every moment and continually exposed to that risk of outsourcing that has been, in our opinion, a modus operandi that has gone beyond the real needs of the Administration, and that has prevented certain activities that, in our opinion, should be covered directly from the public. In short, we believe that the text suffers from significant shortcomings in addressing the structural problems of public employment in our Autonomous Community and includes certain elements, which, in our view, are elements of a certain undesirable discretion with a view to establishing public employment at the centre of modern public administration and services that are appropriate to the needs of society. It does not seem that it will provide an adequate solution to central issues that should be addressed by a law like this. And collective bargaining should remain in this sense, not only being regulated in this rule, but also guaranteed within a bill like this, and we think it does not. The rule makes it possible, as it also said, to exercise discretion on the part of the executive and the administrations in managing public resources by unilaterally adapting measures which may violate the rights of workers and which should be resolved in the area of collective bargaining. We therefore believe that the preliminary draft presented to us does not respond adequately to the priority objective set by the executive himself in the statement of reasons that we partially share to build a comprehensive model of Basque public function and to equip it with rationality and efficiency. We therefore ask the groups to vote for this amendment as a whole, but, as I said, we do so so that the government can begin negotiations with the trade unions and be able to debate in this legislature. We are indeed interested in a Basque public employment law coming out of this legislature, because we have been behind many years, and it is true that the legislation in this area needs to be updated. But we think that there is time in this legislature to discuss a bill that we can say in this House that is preceded, I don't care whether with a photo or without a photo, of a government agreement with the social agents who represent public officials. Of course, my group, if a bill came under those conditions, it would make it very difficult for us to reject it. Of course we would also make our partial amendments to those things that we do not share, but we think that that would be a great rubric for such a law, a law that will regulate in the medium-long term public employment in our autonomous community. Public employment, which as you know, is often plagued by continuing conflicts, is labour conflict, but it is also a conflict in which we listen to the unions talking about the organization of the public administration itself. And therefore, we think that the most important rule, beyond decrees, beyond specific issues later in its development, the rule, the law, with the rubric of the agents representing the public workers, the rubric of the Government, and logically in that case, surely the rubric of a broad parliamentary majority, would be a law that would sow a good seed for the coming years in this regard. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Anybody want to participate in the opposite round? On the other side? One? Two? Mr. Gordillo on the other side, right? Okay, Mrs. Gallarástegui is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u5	Andeak: Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Egun where you're going. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors. From the Socialist Group we believe that this law is important and was, and is, timely as we have been signing for more legislatures. So in line with this assessment our vote is going to be against the whole amendment tabled by Elkarrekin Podemos. In fact, before a Basque public employment bill, it is a very extensive, comprehensive project that comes to sort out and define the legal regime of Basque public employment, and it does so within the margins provided for in the basic legislation and in accordance with the competences that we have recognized in our Statute of Autonomy and in the Constitution. And indeed, as the counsellor also said, she intends to adapt our regulations... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Statute of Autonomy and the Constitution. And indeed, as the adviser also said, she intends to adapt our legislation to the basic legislative framework established by Law 7/2007 of 12 April of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, and also by Royal Decree 5/2015 of 30 October, which approves the consolidated text of that Law. As honourable senators will know, I am sure they know, EBEP is characterized by being a deferred basic standard, which for its effectiveness required the autonomous communities and also the State to enact their corresponding laws on public service, public employment. This was established, as set out in paragraphs two and three of the fourth final provision, which determines that until public service laws and development regulations are established and enacted, the existing rules on coordination, planning and human resources management will remain in force in each community, in each Administration, until they are opposed to the provisions of this Statute. It seems clear, and obvious, that from here, from this text, what emerges is a requirement to the autonomic legislator, specifically the Basque legislator, - in this case, to us - for us to adopt a law, a new law, a law of Public Service for our community, that we come to determine the legislative framework in which we must develop in Euskadi. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish Constitution requires the Administration to carry out its activities with a guarantee of objectivity and impartiality and subject to the principle of effectiveness, and also requires that access to public functions be carried out on an equal basis and in accordance with the principles of merit and capacity, as set out in Articles 23.2 and 103.3. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years there have been major challenges, also arising from important economic, social and demographic changes. And all these changes have affected and affect very intensely, with particular intensity, public organizations. So they have had to adapt to meet the new demands and needs of citizens, and to ensure the provision of quality public services. This gives us the measure of the three nuclear objectives to be achieved by this new law. On the one hand, modernization and, on the other hand, adaptation and improvement in order to fulfil that constitutional mandate to have an efficient, highly specialized and professional administration - the adviser said -, impartial and accountable in its management, and to satisfy the general interests of the citizenry. And these are objectives that cannot be achieved without proper management of the main asset with which the Administration counts, which is no other than its human capital. And, for better employment management, there is a need, above all, for coherent and rational staffing policies, both of a permanent nature - covering the real needs of services - and also for policies that limit temporality to strictly short-term needs. And, in this regard, I would like to mention Law 20/2021 of 28 December on urgent measures for the reduction of the temporaryity in public employment, which, by amending the TREBEP, comes to do with that amendment and with another series of measures is to strengthen the temporary nature of the temporary staff, to clarify the procedures for access to that condition, to aim at the causes of the cessation and to introduce a system of proportionate responsibilities, as well as effective and dissuasive of future breaches in that regard. I think we all agree on that. Returning to the draft, ladies and gentlemen, this law will develop the public employment management instruments applicable to the Basque administrations and establish a common regulatory framework; applicable to the various and different levels of government, but respectful of local and foral autonomy, as well as the powers that each institutional level, each level of institutionality, have to do with the organization itself. The project - as Mrs Garamendi has also pointed out - has some innovative elements, especially in structural aspects of the relationship between public employment relations, such as that of professional public management - recognised in the Statute -, the management and structure of public employment, performance evaluation or the system of job provision. Without a doubt, this Law is also a law that will facilitate the very work of the Administration, because it will, let us say, codify and compile in some way a series of rules, of principles, of ways of acting that have already been carried out. And with this goal we reduce that way, that normative or management dispersion that we currently have. It is also true - and I believe that we have all agreed, also Mr Hernández - that many years have passed since the enactment of Act No. 6/1989 of 6 July 1989 on the Basque Public Service - over 30 - and our society has changed in many respects - you pointed out as well as the Councilwoman pointed out. These are aspects that - also mentioned here - have to do with gender equality, with equal opportunities; which have to do with technologies; which also have to do with governance aspects - how we understand governance. And all these objectives, all these aspects, must also be taken into account and I believe that they must be in line with this rule, and in fact they are pointed out. In short, as you see, ladies and gentlemen, what I am doing is a position of what is, let us say, the assessment from the Socialist Group of this Law. And it is a law that we consider necessary - I insist - and therefore believe that it does not proceed with its return to the Government, but rather with parliamentary work. But - we insist - we want a law, but we want a law that defines a model of public employment that drives and observes the active participation of the... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... to define a model of public employment that encourages and constant the active participation of the representation of public workers, that has a model of linguistic normalization that sufficiently guarantees the linguistic rights of citizens, also adapting their demand to the different socio-linguistic realities; and also guarantees the labour rights of those workers of the Public Service who do not have bilingual capacities in accordance with the current legislation. That's what it's all about. But above all, what we believe and want is a public employment law that, in addition to all these things, provides public services. The nuclear idea is to reinforce, ladies and gentlemen, the value of the public. I think we should give this law a chance. I do not think we should give the government a chance to return to the law. Let the government take and make another new law. I believe this law has margins and limbs to come to an agreement. I believe that this law, well, is better and more perfectable than anything in life. And in that regard, I believe that it will now also depend on the pro-activity that all parliamentary groups have. The parliamentary groups that we are very clear that this law seems necessary for us to have an enriching debate, we can contribute things, exchange feedback. In such a way that we can, ultimately sooner than later, but not without haste; but... without haste, but without pause. To have a new law to define and organize our public system, its management instruments, and regulate the legal regime of our public employees. And I think, I insist, we have a margin. Proactivity has been seen in another series of laws, and I don't see why they have to be given in this one. And finally, well, the location is everyone, not only the whole amending group in this case; but the rest of the parliamentary groups too, in order to get this law out with as much consensus as possible. Because it is ultimately necessary for our employees.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. Together we vote against the general correction of the law of public employment in Podemos-Uruerda Unida Unida, instead of the surprise. And we'll do it because you don't justify the reasons for returning this bill. We believe that this project of laws is necessary and proper, and must continue its course in this chamber. It is a rule that Euskadi's public employment needs to adapt to the times, to renew its own regulatory framework in this area. As the Sailburu Garamendi recalled, we are basing ourselves on a law that has been in force for more than 30 years; and we consider from our group that it was a good bill, which certainly does not justify the request we are submitting for return. I want to use lege-proiektu ona da éta, jakina, ez da justifikatzen itzultzeko eskaera. A different question – and Mrs Gallástegui also said this – is that she has room for improvement during her parliamentary process. Parliament's procedure, which today would be shortened if its amendment were adopted in its entirety. And it's not gonna be like that. We will see whether there is will or no will in the way it is to be done to date to reach such agreements to introduce such possible improvements into the law. An amendment in its entirety is not the best starting point. And the arguments you have used today in this rostrum, in this rostrum, Mr Hernández, it would seem that if they are true they should remain in force in the next stages of processing. Let us hope that there can be a change in your strategy, and that we can enter into improvements and consensus around the articulation of the law. You base your amendment as a whole on several arguments. First of all, they argue that there is no prior negotiation and in accordance with trade union representation. And this in part, it's not true. Negotiation has taken place, negotiations have taken place during this legislature and during the previous legislatures. Another issue is that agreement or agreement is not always reached at all. That is why it is no reason to say, as you do, that this bill lacks the fundamental element to continue. Negotiations have taken place. Certainly not the agreements that one or some of the parties would like. But negotiate, it's been negotiated. The current text has a long history during several legislatures, and it is a text that has evolved during its processing, due to legal circumstances, due to legal circumstances. But also thanks to the collective bargaining that has been taking place for many years. In fact, allegations from both the social partners and other participating institutions and entities have been reflected in the text. And if you want to do it you can check it, it's in the memory of the project. And it is also noteworthy, as Mrs Garamendi has pointed out, that there was agreement with the social side that a good number of the issues relating to human resources management and the management of people should be simply stated and that the concreteness of their content should be left to the development regulations of this law, following further collective bargaining where appropriate. You also ask that collective bargaining must be armored, that it must be legally enshrined. In this bill, collective bargaining is set out in numerous precepts. We could quote from the second article, a full title dedicated to... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... In this draft law collective bargaining is contained in numerous precepts, we could quote from the second article, a full title dedicated to collective bargaining, etc. Therefore, we do not see the deficiency that you claim. In our view, collective bargaining is properly collected, and that is, of course, how legal certainty is provided, as you ask. You speak of the mediums of your correction, and we always share the − with you, which we think we share with all the groups, in order to reduce them; and this is what we mean. ♪ Everybody knows it's all right ♪ ♪ And everybody's doing it ♪ If we consider the measures which conform to our public sector, we shall really be enabled to do these measures, and with great jurist assurance. And not alone, Mr. Hernandez, not only with theoretical planning. By the first way there have been agreements with the union representation of Esscal, for example, the specifications introduced into the law of the Kidegos and the Orders. Not only do we need words, we need papers, we need legal text to overcome it, not just theoretical planning. We must also remember - and you have spoken about it, Mr Hernández - that the replacement rates continue to exist, that they prevent the reduction of the temporality and that they prevent each administration from being self-organised according to its needs, and that they continue to be collected in the basic regulations of the State. We and we have always called for their elimination. I do not want to say that you, as part of the Government of Spain, have all the responsibility for its maintenance, but, well, you can help, you can work with us and with us to eliminate it. We do not burden them with all the responsibility, but we do ask them to cooperate. Help us eliminate them. On the other hand, you claim that this bill is not comprehensive, well, you claim that it is partial and deficient, and we cannot agree. We are faced with a bill, in our opinion, integral to the Basque public employment model with a homogenizing vocation. And, of course, there are many aspects that demonstrate this, since the creation of the Employment Coordination Committee, the emphasis on coordination that the Basque Government must have on public employment policy, etc. Still, it must be remembered that there are limits. At least I will quote two: that it cannot and should not exhaust regulation and what effects it should have for regulatory development with its corresponding collective bargaining, and so has also been understood by trade union representation; and it cannot and should not go further, because otherwise it would be an unmanageable norm and would ultimately lose efficiency and effectiveness. Secondly, it must respect our institutional framework, with the competences and capacity of self-organisation of each of them. You, in your first intervention, spoke that that is possible, it is possible to homogenize respecting the capacity of self-organization of all the institutions of our institutional framework. Well, write us down what your proposal is. Beyond the theoretical approach. What is your idea, what is your proposal. On the other hand, you also criticise - and you have done so, Mr Hernández, in your speech - that the retributive system depends on financial sustainability. In our view, these criticisms should not be directed to the Basque Government or to this draft law, since they are matters which, in principle, exceed its powers. It is a principle of a basic state character and of compulsory application, as set out in Organic Law 2/2012 of 27 April 2012 on budgetary stability and financial sustainability. We will accompany you if you want to direct the request for your elimination. Let's go hand in hand. If you wish, let's go hand in hand. To the appropriate place. To the appropriate place. Good. As we have said, we do not believe that the shortcomings that you allege are, are the subject of professional career, of competitive assessment. Finally, there are a number of other issues that are also part of the content of the bill that we will certainly have an opportunity to discuss in a more refined way because the presentation process, etc., and when appropriate – if appropriate – to the final adoption of the bill. We do not think there are any shortcomings which you claim, as we have said, nor can this rule exhaust regulation in matters or regulate aspects which do not correspond to it by subject matter; although they may, of course, already have a relationship. Because if we were not faced with a regulation that is not effective and difficult to manage. Of course, the bet of this Government and of the groups that we support this Government for public services is unquestionable, and in our view there is nothing in this bill that can be called into question. That is why, for all these reasons, we will vote against your amendment as a whole. We do not understand that there is justification for the return of the bill. We understand that it is an appropriate bill, that it is a necessary bill, that can be improved, of course, if there is will during the parliamentary process, which today you want it to end, although it will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u8	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing on the line, the representative of the Anthabei, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u9	Thank you. I'm going to start with the part, let's say, not alien, because it's not alien, but maybe not so directly related to the bill. You were telling me about the replacement rates... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...let's say it's not alien because it's not alien, but maybe not so directly related to the bill. You were talking to me about replacement rates, and you were doing it -- I understand -- in a kind way. And, of course, our coalition... not only in Euskadi, but at the state level... He was always against these replacement rates. I recognize that we are in the Government and that changes have been made at the moment, but they have not been eliminated. Of course, our political will and our work with our forces, with some 30 MPs - I believe we have in Congress, despite being in the Government - will continue to work in that direction as well. But I think it is also important to remember in this House that the problem of temporaryity in Basque public employment does not arise only from the replacement rates imposed in its day by the People's Party. Because there, for example in Osakidetza, prior to the start-up of these replacement rates, we had a temporality of more than 30%, which is a very high temporality for an entity such as public health. And the same thing I can tell you about financial sustainability; this is an issue – I believe – of ideological silence, of which we are against, here and elsewhere. And even if it was state law, there was no need to include it in the concrete text, which is something that the unions have criticized and that we cannot go over to the time of making our criticism as well. Well, we, the approach I am telling you, which I have explained to you, of course, is basically based on that issue. It seems to you that this is not enough reason to ask the Government to be returned; it seems to us that it is. It is not a question of our parliamentary group being more or less willing to negotiate the law. We, as I said earlier, in all the texts, in all the laws we will have the will to speak and, if necessary, negotiate on the basis of the content. But there are specific laws, and this is one of them - I repeat - the public employment law, which we believe must bring the requirement of the trade union agreement. I do not know whether it is worth much discussing whether or not there has been negotiation, because this is a debate we have had many times. I repeat myself: we have done a follow-up work on the committees, where they came to speak precisely about this bill, and we have heard all the unions say that there has been no negotiations as such. And I refer to that. I'm sure they've spoken, and it's true that there's been a previous job in previous legislatures. - and so have I in my previous speech, - but the unions are constantly telling us one thing: we talk but we do not negotiate. And they make a distinction between the two issues. And they recriminate, or what they ask, is that their contributions are not simply collected; some of them through allegations, where in the end it is the executive's power to collect them when drafting the bill or not. They are demanding a negotiation, where surely they too will have to leave hair on the catera - surely not, surely, they will have to leave hair on the catera - and an agreement with the contents in broad outline of what will then be a bill. And it is true that there are issues - which they have pointed out - that cannot be dealt with, and that the unions themselves are asking that they be left for collective bargaining. But they are also saying that the law does not unequivocally guarantee that these matters will go to collective bargaining, although there is a chapter on collective bargaining in the law. And we have heard that opinion, and they have explained it to us why: because it is based on their past experience; I don't know if it sounds wrong to say it, but they don't trust it. And, therefore, that is an important element of criticism for us, because we also think that it could be reflected in the law in that unambiguous way that is requested. Well, we, he said, will see if we have will in the process, but at the same time it was said that starting with an amendment to the whole, therefore, does not seem the best way to show will. I don't think it has anything to do with it. It is true that it is going to mark us, and we are going to have coherence, and I have also been concerned to explain it and to tell the Commissioner in the Commission. And to tell them as well when they passed, also to ask them - just as I ask the Government - for a greater bargaining effort. Because for us it's going to be very difficult to support a public employment law... not any law... a public employment law that not only does not have the backing of trade unions, but we hear them unanimously oppose all trade unions. That's our concern. This is not an amendment to all harassment and toppling of the Government. And we speak with absolute honesty when we say that our approach of returning to the government in mid-legislature, we are not finalizing the legislature - times are not in haste unless Mr. lehendakari has an electoral advance in mind -, we are not in haste, and we think that there is plenty of time for a bill of this magnitude, which we, of course, reiterate to him the utmost importance... It's true, 30 years of the Civil Service Act, and it's been a long time since we've been discussing this... I can see the light, because it'll also be good. But we think it will be really good if it comes with that consensus, if it comes with that consensus. We believe that for there to be a parliamentary consensus, or broad parliamentary support, to have a prior consensus with the representatives of the public employees directly concerned by the law would, as I said earlier, be the unambiguous seed. And in that, of course, we would be. We are not going to give up the process of talking about partial amendments. It is true that we have tabled few partial amendments, because some substantive issues we think that if you have not been able to be included in the text in that process - call it what you want, I will not call it a negotiation, but rather a dialogue - you call it a negotiation - it does not matter to me - in that process with the trade unions, and you have not been able to be included, I hardly believe that our group will be able to take them off to an absolute majority government. But in any case, we're going to talk... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... I hardly think our group will be able to get rid of them to an absolute majority government, but in any case, we are going to talk, we are going to talk about the specific issues, but yes, maintaining that coherence, which certainly does not seem to us the best way to be born a Public Employment Law with the opposition of all the representatives of the public workers. That is the point of substance on which our group is presenting this amendment to the whole of which I cannot do anything other than ask all the groups to vote, including those that I know are not going to vote, but also to the other opposition groups, which I believe are not going to support explicitly, even though there is certainly no opposition, but I am asking for the vote on the basis of that argument that it would have been better to have that previous trade union heading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. This is the second round of responses that the Basque Socialist won't speak a word. Mr. Cuckoo, it's your word, Eubertarians.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u11	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Very briefly, I am not going to exhaust the 10 minutes, you can be quiet and quiet, ladies and gentlemen, which is not my intention. Mr Hernandez, I am disconcerted, because he tells us that he is open to negotiation, but that he will maintain consistency. Come on, he's not gonna move a half step. It doesn't give us much hope. It gives us a lot of hope, of course. I expect dugu zuen taldean strategy aldaketa ikustea, eta horretara iristeko benetako borondatea erakustea, bathe lehen esan dituzun hitzak, ba, ez doaz bide honetatik, nik uste, ez doaz horretatik. However, we and we will be open and willing to talk about your amendments, you will maintain your consistency, and of course we will also maintain our own coherence in the sense that we need, we believe that the Basque public sector needs a new Public Employment Law, that those 30 years of the current law require all and all to make improvements in that aspect of modernizing the organization of the public administration itself, maintaining that respect, maintaining that absolute respect for what would be the area of collective bargaining, sustainability and the capacity of public administrations to sustain that... its own functioning, its structure, and of course, we and we are going to be (?, but today we are going to vote no to your amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. After the discussion, we'll vote for the bill to come back or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the contrary, 41; the abstainments, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u13	After the vote, we'll go to the vote. Mr. Gordillo, representing the populars of the Basque Group, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. At the explanations of vote it is appropriate to express the reasons why our group, in this case, has abstained. The Basque Public Employment Act is one of the three legs of the laws that this legislature is dealing with in relation to the public administration. It began with the Law on Bodies and Scales, the Law on the Public Sector, and finally, the Law on Public Employment. The text that the Government has certainly brought is a very old text, 2018, but that basically collected the texts that had already been presented in other legislatures, this one I do not know if it is already the third or fourth time that a Basque Public Employment Bill is introduced in this Parliament. The truth is that in our opinion, in my personal opinion, there are certain elements that would make reasonable a rewriting of large contents that has the law, yes there could be elements, perhaps not those that the proposing group has expressed in this case, but there could be elements that would make reasonable a profound change. Firstly, the legislative technique is clearly improved. It is a law that is tremendously detailed in some things. This will require, and is a defect, that on many occasions in the Budgets Act there should be annual reforms to this Act, and then, on the other hand, there are other issues that could have developed a little further, and that however, it differs at a later stage from the regulatory process, from the decrees, with which the criterion is not well understood in that case. On the other hand, as many laws that the Government sends us to this Parliament, when we have to relate, when we have to establish the principles of relationship or of legislative technique with the basic legislation, because there are times when it is copied as the basic legislation, and there are times when nothing is copied as the basic legislation, that is, there is no fixed criterion. Either all the basic legislation is introduced, if the purpose is indeed to codify, to have every orderly, which seems to be what it likes, or nothing is put in the basic legislation. The law follows what is the technique of collecting customs and customs since human resources managers of the public service have been doing for a long time, and almost seems like an act of claim to other departments many times... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... of human resources managers of the Public Service as they have been doing for a long time. And it almost seems like an act of claim to other departments often the Government itself. In any case, with regard to the fundamental elements, which the Government has recalled, the Councilwoman has done before, she has already done so at the time, for, listen, the law has much room for improvement, because it is generous. It's about the career. It is mentioned in almost the same terms as basic legislation, it does not contribute anything. Public management. Sure, public management, same thing. We have indeed introduced amendments in this case to make it... there is a reasonable selection system for senior management. Performance evaluation. It doesn't exist. It's self-assessment. There's no real evaluation if you're evaluating yourself. And then, the tools for planning and selecting human resources, this is already the best, isn't it? Look, it takes up to three years to solve an OPE, up to three years. So what is the big problem with this law? Since from the beginning it has not been explained - and I have asked the Government several times and shared it with your ladies and gentlemen in this House - it has not been explained why we have come to the situation in which we are, in some cases, up to 50% in the interim. Up to half of the workers in the public sector, in this case the Basque public administrations, are in an interim situation. It hasn't been explained. If it hasn't been explained, if we don't know those reasons, how are we going to tackle them in this law? The greatest thing we have come to is to listen to the principle of identity: things are as they are. We all know that things are the way they are, that this is the way it is because yes, and so on. But the reasons have not been given. Look, I give you one of the reasons. The fundamental reason is that the recruitment system for new staff is too long. And this law, which is precisely supposed to be one of the star elements was to cut this from interinity, again sets three years to solve the contests. Therefore, it is not a law that comes to solve the big issues. The consolidation of employment, which is the star measure, for we have thus remained unexplained. The euskera, yes, of course, here is established above all, and this in very detail, that the use of the euskera will be guaranteed internally and externally. Listen, externally, yes, every citizen has the right to speak the language he or she deems appropriate. But, hey, this is internal now, man. And then, from the bodies and scales. The same thing, it's already approved. What has been very strange to me is that the groups supporting the Government - this is my personal reflection - have only tabled one amendment, one amendment. With this, the hand stretched out to negotiate, well, I hope, to see what remains in it. We abstained because, as the Government does not see any change in any of these elements, we want to give parliamentary procedure a chance, and that is why we abstained. Our hand is stretched out, it is stretched out to the groups of the Government and it is stretched out, Counsellor. But what's going on is we've started off wrong. Let us hope that in the parliamentary procedure we can reach some kind of agreement, but the truth is that we have not started in the best way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garcia, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u16	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. It has been repeated from the beginning of the legislation that it has necessarily been revealed by a society, that a people require strong public services. At the present day, when uncertainty shakes our lives again in this context of war, it is necessary that some powerful public services should re-remember them, but that they will not be able to protect more people before new conditions of necessity. And we need strong and strong public services of quality to be based on public employments of quality. And no, that's not the state of public employment we have. And the law of public employment, which the Government has introduced, does not answer to it properly. We have submitted to this law by collecting the Basque People 133 to the gaps mentioned by Polydemos-Uruerda Unida in its full corrections, and to answer so many other gaps that it does not mention. Therefore it has been our vote, because we believe that the privations of the law of absolute correction, and the privations of the many others that are not mentioned, have been received in our 133 corrections. Residents of the Basque Country are developing ten furrows. First, a collective negotiation force and place it in value. 21st a modern public administration of the century cannot turn back the unions in order to determine the quality of public service, and how to create employment. Second, to have stability one of the principal principles of public employment. This is why the temporary rate must be placed below 8%. The third, to have one of the principal principles of public employment, in order to re-reparen the resources of human resources, to guarantee the quality of public services. Fourthly, deleting a salary based on productive activity. It's not proper for public administration to introduce inconstant rewards. Public workers must supply their targets with enough rewards. The fifth, to prevent the opposition of public services, and to fix the criteria for the recovery of public services which are now privatized. Strong public services must principally be developed by public employment. Sixth to Eska. This law ought to give a leap in the use of the cradle. By this law the citizens are obliged to confirm the right of choosing one of the two official languages. And even in public administrations, you have to learn how to use a language of work. Seventhly, strengthening the rights of people who have disaffection. The eighth, the force of the genus view. The 9th, to take measures to re-enerve the Plant, to forward the jubilation. And the tenth thing is, nationality is not the element to be excluded from public employment. That's why we compare nationality and legal residence in the Basque Autonomy community. And in these furrows, we've submitted the amendments of the Basque Country. [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... and a legitimate residence in Euskal Autonomy Er-Euros. And about these lines we shall defend the amendments which have been set before us by the United States of the Basque People, we shall be strict in order to place the Law of the Public Empire in the proper place, and to enable the hinges to answer by means of public service, which always depends upon public employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Second and third point in the theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: In order to discuss the procedure of haste, the proposal made by the parliamentary organization of the EH Collectors, in order to share information from the first moment of the war, and to respond to the consequences of the war, and to discuss the constitution of the committee as a people, to discuss the rapid process of the Euscal Popular-Ciudadanos as a parlamentary group of parlaments made by Vladimir Putin, in view of the invasion and the assaults made by Russia against the Ucraina. " Team proposeer's turn. The wife of the Kotha, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u18	andes: Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good morning, everyone. First of all, Pablo González wants to report the situation of the reporter, the Basque Country. The Basque reporter's been arrested for two weeks without a trust lawyer in Poland, he can almost be said to be isolated, and we want to demand his immediate freedom today. Russia's attack on the Ukraine has caused a serious crisis all over the world. The effects of war, whether economic or social, are already obvious in ours, in enterprises, in economic activity... beyond that, they have become a living when we have received bills for each of us, when we have to do our daily shopping or to fill up the deposit of the carriage. These too, like the Pannonians, were more than personal lives, very politicians to understand the vast mosaic of a people's lives in order to give answers. Again, it's an unusual situation that we're living. A great difficulty, which demands a serious condition of exception, to act on consistency, and to take extraordinary measures. To prepare as a people for the support of the means and the use of all their proper jurisdictions to alleviate these consequences. And I'd say that the pandemines have been able to learn all that we've been through, all that we haven't done and done. And this situation of the size is all advocating us: it requires a work of economic, union, political and social operators. We can all do it and we have to do our most honest contribution in front of this situation. At this time when instability, fear, and security are lacking, people need certainty. The fragility of our lives has been revealed once more, and that is no small matter for a people. The contribution of these different political and institutional representatives is to act together, to decide among them as a people, how war has produced this crude reality. And how to give them certainty. "Y mucho cuidado porque ante auencia de respuestas clauras, ante la Auencia de eses certezas, se abre passe el discurso symplista de la ultradecha." We've presented the proposal we've been able to discuss today with this constructive purpose for certainty. We wish to create a special commission, which will allow the presence of the President to be permanent, and as counsellors, to participate in the experts; To cope with the effects of war, to share the measures, to share the deliberations, and to unite together as a people. The purpose is to have a permanent frame of conversation and work together in this unusual state. We've brought in a tool for colaborating, we've chosen the formula of the special committee, but it might have been another one. But what was your answer? Zero, zero. The proposal didn't deserve any correction. That's it. We know that we have great differences, but now we have to reorganize, reorganize our priorities, share our reflections, but give them the necessary discussions, re-retain the budget, and activate all the resources we have to protect the people. And we need this special committee, or a permanent frame of conversation and association, to do all that we think we need to do, and with its initiative today, we probably don't have a sign of the strategic therapy of this government. Egoerak sode guztiak jendea gugandik expect two neurria ematea eskatzen donean, esan behar dizuet las jolas Txikitan, motzean aritzea kosta egiten de la ulertzen. We do not understand that we are alerted to the lehendakari Urkullu of the war economy when he speaks of severe consequences for the economy, of the consequences it can bring for the most vulnerable people, for families, here nothing changes. Ematen from the herd Gerrikoa estutzeko loaned to the Egyptian daitezen den ohartarazpen beat her, eh? But even in these circumstances, the usual dynamics of this Government are not transcended; no effort is made to transcend that dynamic government-opposition despite sincere sites such as this one which is being debated today. Parce incluso que se desprecia, eh? Induso en la misma shape en la que querido ventolor el debatare or the rude answer that we have received. What is this dynamic of government for the moment, and you have no choice but to place yourself on the table, while you meet with the patriarchal, you meet with Iberdronla, I don't know, you meet with others, but with the groups of this legislature and there's no way to create such a space. We, however, clearly see that all this burden of war is not to be left behind the citizens and corporations, because the burden is intolerable, and we are ready to take care of it from the proper place and station, and before we have done it we have done it: In opposition to the economy of war, we defend peace, protection, and vital security, we defend the economy. We defend economics, protect jobs, protect incomes, support the guarantee of access to power... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... at work, we favor the economy. To protect economics, to protect employment, to protect incomes, to support power access. We are concerned with guarantees of protection and of security to those who are in politics. From responsibility, in concert, as a country, it is now to act with a proactive attitude. We really believe in this, and now we have proved it truly and hitherto. We were the first to insist on delaying elections in the pandemonium and making a proposal to each other. And we've done it, for example, because in this budget deal the moment required it. And now we're ready. We've got our proposals, but we've seen that there are others. And that the government is dripping from time to time (... ) signifying also their proposals. Why can't we do them together? I saw the prediction of a lecture on Twitter's social foro recently, with a very snake title: dialogos impeccables. And by chance, poco. To seek this, you call it the condition of creating it, you will say no to-day. And since we are compelled to play on the decision of the President, and for those who are probably interested in playing small, we are forced to play on two different subjects, which are so different, I would even like to say that the project which the Poptulars have introduced has been very clear to the Basque People, the political position of the nation in Russia's attack on the Ukraine. We are the people of Guernica, who are close to the people who suffer from empathy, history, solidarity, this war. Bakearekin eta ferrien riseanotasunarekin konprometitu dagoen herria garga, éa argi esan dugu hasieratik gera honi ezetz esaten diagula; gerari ezetz esaten diegula. Gerraren kontrako jarrera tinkoa agertu dugu, Eta Errusiaren okupazioa arbuiatu dugu eta arbuiazen jarraituk dugu, ñabardurarik Gabe. Eta argi esan dugu eraso militarrak berahala love behar duela. We have expressed our firm and clear rejection of the Russian military intervention and urged its immediate cessation, while we have called for a military de-escalation as a basic condition for seeking political solutions. And we have also stated that we believe that the sending of offensive weapons is not a step in that direction, but that in addition to fuelling more tragic consequences, it can increase the danger of a large-scale conflict. Eta esan dugu, gure ustez ezinbestekoa da nazioarteko erakundeak inpikazio handiagoarekin aritzea bide diplomatikoak ahalbidetu eta gerra honekin amaitzeko. And that is why we have called on the European Union and the international community to engage in negotiations that will consolidate a scenario of peace and security. And we also said that Euskal Herria is the people of Gernika who 36 years ago voted no to the entrance (...). Euskal Herria Bildutik argi esan dugu, gerrari ezetz esaten diogun bezala, (...) ere ere ezetz esaten diogula. Eta gaur esan behar dugu expectantza handiz ikusten dugula Ukrainak eta Errusiak neutraltasun plan bat loanu izanaren albistea, gerari amariera emateko bidea izango dellakoan. Ikusiko dugu. She was the father of the man who was the mother of an Adiari Diegu Ukrainako, a herriari and anitorri joya eman handik datozenen errefuxiatua. And we have remembered that before they have arrived here other people seeking refuge to whom they have not received in the same way. And it is that this situation has shown that it was always possible, but it was not wanted. In any case, I don't think the object of the initiative today was to accuse the state of Ukraine, or to seek another common position, which would probably have been effected differently? It's not a consistent political position, it's not an attempt to make a concession. We haven't been called for instance. He has chosen a text signed by all of Madrid, or has been introduced as correction, which shows a clear position, without hesitation, and consistent. If it's a question of the Ukraine, there's a chance. But what's good there is no use here. It has not been explained why a large majority cannot be cultivated here. We all recently signed a text in which in Congress, a text that leaves no room for misunderstanding. And from there I believe that the rest have certain other interests, other political objectives, and you will know what you are doing it with. But when we come to this point and conclude, as things are, with political positions clear, we think it is our duty to dispute about what we are ready to do than against us. And about that I don't know what you'll say. You have not suggested anything to us, and you have declared that you will refuse this way which we have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u19	Thank you, Madame Kortja's. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mr. Barrio, is your word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u20	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. On 24 February 2022 Russia invaded Ukraine, an independent sovereign nation whose territorial integrity is not negotiable. On the same day, the Basque Parliament tried to press forward with a statement condemning the invasion of the military attack, but some groups did not accept it. Today three weeks later, we pretend one thing; we pretend to be firm with the invasion, and to be forceful with the invasion, and clear, very clear. Because yesterday Putin bombed two strategic objectives, Chernigov's bread tail, and a theater of civilians inside, with civilians inside, in Mariupol. That was the war feats of an invading army yesterday. And that can only have an answer. The conviction. International condemnation, democratic condemnation in this regard, and the denunciation of war crimes. That is what we are going to try to bring to the initiative that we have put forward, where very much of the issues that you have also raised in your amendments as a whole are reflected. All we have to do is read the compromise amendment that we have signed... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... very much of the issues that you have also raised in your amendments as a whole. All we have to do is read the compromise amendment that my group has signed with the Basque Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group, to see that the vast majority of the issues that you raise are there, not all of them, of course. Russia has invaded Ukraine, violating all the rules of international law. And although Vladimir Putin tries to justify war on non-existent historical rights, this attack is absolutely unjustified and illegal. Aggression also poses a threat to the stability, security of Europe, as well as the very concept of the values of democracy, order or international law, as is already being demonstrated day by day with this occupation. That is why this attack must be answered in the strongest and strongest way we can do. It is not negotiable, in this case, the constancy, and the demand and condemnation of what is happening. That's not negotiable, Mrs. Kortajarena. You have to be strong in that sense. We are part of a country committed to international law, to the Charter of the United Nations, which in its article 2.4 states that the territorial integrity of states is inviolable, and to its partners in the European Union and NATO. That is why democratic governments must, and must, take, within the international organizations to which they belong, all the necessary measures, including support with material resources - also those of a military nature - in order to be able to defend them. They are not offensive weapons, they are defensive weapons that are currently being facilitated to the Army or the Ukrainian population, in order to defend their sovereignty, to respond to that terrible aggression, to restore peace and freedom and to defend democracy. As long as these objectives are achieved, the European Union and its Member States must, of course, demonstrate their solidarity. And we are also doing so in what is the compromise amendment in a clear way. At this time different institutions, governments, international agencies are working, for what? For many things: to increase efforts in both the sending of defensive materials and diplomatic efforts for the immediate cessation of hostilities and the search for a solution to the conflict; to be constantly pressing, urging the Russian Government to respect international humanitarian law. It is clear that it is not being effective in this regard, because it is not being complied with by the Russian Army, and Putin's decisions, but it is being urged and pressured to comply with that international law. We are already seeing how the civilian population is unprotected, and, of course, that is what must continue to be pressured. These institutions, Governments and international agencies must also promote the creation of humanitarian corridors that would enable the population to be evacuated as a matter of urgency. Increased funding to ensure continuity of health care. To urgently promote a joint diplomatic strategy within the European Union that coordinates urgent humanitarian aid and manages an orderly exit, including the possibility of an individualised assessment of vulnerable Ukrainians. We are making significant efforts in this regard. Or present plans also, coordinated, because I do not know, between autonomous communities, with local entities, municipalities. I believe that progress can be made, progress is being made, and both institutions and governments and international agencies are doing so, and that is the key to the issue. We have tabled an amendment, at the end of the compromise, with very clear questions, and I believe that they are firm. The first point is the denunciation, the unconditional condemnation of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and the use of force against a sovereign country. We mention, of course, the Helsinki Final Act, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe or Article 2.4 of the Charter of the United Nations as basic elements, precisely to justify that condemnation. Those articles had been violated; they had been violated by Vladimir Putin; they had been violated by the Russian Government. And it is clear that this deserves a conviction and a denunciation. I say again, what's the point of reporting? To urge the European Union and the Member States to strengthen the economic sanctions against Vladimir Putin and the environment that supports him, to force them to put an end to the war and massacre in Ukraine as soon as possible. That's a basic thing. That's a way of pressure, of a novel pressure, but a pressure that you have and that we hope will bear fruit at some point. All war crimes and crimes against humanity are also requested to be investigated in order to prosecute them, to try them by the International Criminal Court or other competent jurisdictions. It is also important, because we are talking about war crimes and crimes against humanity. Let them look into each other. That I believe is a fundamental issue. That's why, at the first point, we were talking about the denunciation of what's going on. We also invite all international actors, once they assess the damage caused by the war in the invasion of Ukraine, to be given the possibility that they will be paid with the money of Putin and his accomplices have embezzled and that they have been identified in different countries: money evaded by the Russian oligarchs and the innermost environment of Putin. And that, of course, serves to compensate for war damage caused. That is to say, they are elements to which we refer very clearly. We also wish to reaffirm the right of all nations to preserve their territorial integrity. It can be undermined for reasons of geographical proximity, ethnic or linguistic affinity. And there we continue to refer to the Helsinki Final Act. Our commitment, because it is the fundamental one, the commitment that must exist with the defence of the principles of democracy, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights as set out in the preamble to the Treaty of Constitution of the North Atlantic Alliance, the Constitution of the European Union or the Charter of the United Nations. We also support the attitude of the governments of the European Union, also of the Government of Spain, together with the allies who are, and who have a leading role in the European Union, of NATO, to put an immediate end to this unqualified invasion. We also ask for information, we ask the Government of Spain to maintain a flow of information with political parties, so that the Government of Spain can also receive the maximum cooperation at this time. And the government of the European Union... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... flow of information with political parties so that the Government of Spain can also receive maximum cooperation at the moment, and the Government of the European Union, clearly. We call on the competent authorities to step up their efforts with regard to temporary protection, residence and work permits under the European directive, and that the refugee population urgently needs. That is getting underway, that must be done, to a greater extent, surely. Our Basque solidarity is there, thousands of families, collectives, citizens of this country are doing to protect an effort, and shelter families victims of the illegitimate invasion. It is being done, in fact, being carried out, there are impressive signs of affection and solidarity, and we have to thank this Parliament for that. And what we have to do, well, we know that there are about 3,000 Ukrainians living in this country, now there are going to be many more. Well, well, I believe that in that sense we express that solidarity and support. And, of course, the collaboration of all the institutions to continue working on this issue. Democratic states must continue to increase their efforts as well. That is no longer, of course, part of the compromise amendment, but, from our point of view, democratic states must continue to increase efforts to strengthen the defence of Ukraine and its army against investment, and they must continue to increase the shipment of military material to combat the occupier to defend themselves. That's a fundamental element, you can't... It is not understood that anyone can oppose that: to allow a people like this, invaded, to defend itself. What is happening in Ukraine is a hard lesson for those who think that security and defence policies are superfluous, and that the military budget can be countered with that of social policies, forgetting that without security there is no freedom. Someone said that "if vis pacem, for bellum", is not the aphorism that I like most, but it makes us think that democracy has its enemies. I would have much more to say in relation to Bildu's proposal and the study committee. As far as you're concerned... of EH Bildu and the study committee, as far as the initiative is concerned... To deal with the consequences of this invasion, what I believe there should be are not study committees; it is not that the Bildu Group or the People'sCitizens Group or the Socialist Group bring certain people to tell us what we are already seeing or what we already know. That is, what we need is support, support for the institutions that are working, support for governments, for governments in all their variety...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u21	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u22	... to those we have closest or those we have furthest away or to the agencies to facilitate that work of solidarity, support, aid, and also that forceful work of economic sanctions, of international pressure. We understand that every day we are in this Parliament, we can continue to debate, you can ask for a full monograph whenever you want, you have a sufficient majority. But we understand that today the study committee is irrelevant in relation to what we have to do from the political institutions, which is support for those who are fighting from the diplomatic, from the political, the invasion of Putin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u23	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerza. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u24	Cursed are the wars and the scoundrels that make them. And those scoundrels are usually white and old men. These white and older men, these scoundrels, know each other, but they don't kill each other. They send others, usually young men, to kill each other; and they do not know each other. They send the cowards and kill the poor; today and forever. And basically these words are what summarizes the political position of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita on the armed invasion of Russia into Ukraine, and on each and every one of the wars. One of our proposals is negotiation and dialogue between different people, as it could not be otherwise. That is why, for the sake of consensus, on Saturday we made a proposal to all the groups in the House to sign the same text that was signed in the Congress of Deputies. And we didn't get any answers, no answers. Yesterday, Mr Barrio gave us a text that we can subscribe to for the most part. But you know - and you have done so, and then don't be hypocrites, I'm going to go ahead - that my political organization, my coalition, cannot sign something that goes against the fundamental principles on which we are founded. We cannot sign a resolution in which we are asked to renounce our founding principles. Foundational principles that are based on the no to NATO. Not NATO, by the way, that at Euskal Herria came out that no. And here I turn to the bench of the Basque Nationalist Party, a party of the Basque and pro-right to decide. The Basque people decided that their political bet was not to enter NATO, and you are going against that political will, against the right to decide. Today, in the midst of the negotiations being carried out by Ukraine and Russia, we have this initiative; it has come late, because we also, on the same day that the invasion began, offered the same resolution that had been adopted in other parliaments, the same, exactly the same, Mr Aguirre, the Courts of Aragon, I can take out all the emails that we have shared, that there was no explicit mention of NATO, which is what differentiates us. And you have put in the center what differentiates us, by post. But neither in this nor in anything else and defense of peace will you ever win us. There has been much talk these days of diplomatic efforts, which in this Parliament seems to have not happened. There's been a lot of talk these days... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... There has been much talk these days of diplomatic efforts, which in this Parliament seems to have not happened. Much has been said these days about the need to bet on peace and on diplomatic efforts to end the horror of this war, which we condemn without any palliatives. We support all pressure mechanisms and sanctions mechanisms that go directly to the Russian Government and oligarchs, but we do not support sanctions that affect the Russian people, the Ukrainian people or the European people. We defend, therefore, also the sanctions on luxury products that the Russian oligarchs continue to be able to buy today in Bilbao, if they want. We defend all sanctions that do not harm the plain people. That is why we continue to insist that the European Union must play a fundamental role in the resolution of this conflict, which it is not doing, as we saw with the visit, for example, without the European Union, of the Visegrad countries the other day to Ukraine. And it also goes through the need to have another relationship with all neighbours, including Russia. And, Mr. Barrio, you're talking about punishing the Russian oligarchs. We agree. Do you know who opened the door to all Russian oligarchs in Spain in 2013? Her name is Mariano Rajoy, M. Rajoy. I'm sure it sounds. That is why the Russian oligarchs have Spanish nationality, because Mariano Rajoy, in exchange for 500,000 euros of entry to Spain, gave them nationality. Those must be attacked, those must be attacked. And you're the ones who opened the door to him. You are the ones who by this have financed the government and the oligarchs of Putin. You guys. And if not, I remember Aznar's words. And also, how can we not support this - and I believe it is important and would have been important for a unanimous declaration by this Parliament - because the search for agreements and consensus to end this war, which we are talking about a war with a nuclear power put through. Peace and the word in this Parliament and in this people of Blas Otero must be the fundamental thing that should unite us. We support it. And we support what is said in the resolution on the call for respect for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, as it is in our amendment, and also in the Helsinki Act of 1975, by which the OSCE is created, an organization, unfortunately, unknown and with a limited role, but which we would like to have an active role in resolving this crisis. But NATO, NATO, is not going to solve this or any other problem. Pay attention to retired generals from the Spanish Army, such as General Ayala, with plans of descalation, with plans of pressure in order to be able to negotiate a lasting peace and a lasting solution to the conflict and war between Russia and Ukraine and the invasion of Russia to Ukraine. Let us hope that this will be over soon because we are not the suffering ones here, it is the Ukrainian people, who are fleeing en masse, who are suffering the indiscriminate bombings of Russia. And yes, Mr Barrio, we have to address European security problems, our protection mechanisms, our relations with our neighbours, our food sovereignty, too, Mr Barrio, our energy sovereignty, which means not selling our energy companies, for example, our resource sovereignty, because that is true security. Military security if it is not accompanied by material security in terms of energy resources, in terms of food and security that does not guarantee a decent minimum of life for the whole population is totally ineffective and totally incapable. A security solution that also now passes through a guarantee for the territorial sovereignty of Ukraine and full respect for the self-determination of Ukraine and its sovereignty and territorial integrity. And also for common European security. That's where we can agree. With the role of NATO, which is an organization outside of us, no. But right now we are witnessing the horror of war, the death and destruction of human beings by other human beings, attacks on the civilian population, attacks on homes and hospitals. And, in this regard, it seemed important to us to introduce a call that Unicef, Save the Children and the UN are making to the parties for respect for international humanitarian law and not to introduce themselves... and not to bomb civilians, hospitals, schools. And, in this regard, we appeal to the parties in this war... well, let the war stop and that as long as it lasts, let us hope that it is as little as possible, these actions will be avoided. The actions like the one you cited from the Russian Army yesterday in Mariupol, which is an absolute genocide, in the theater you cited, but also the actions of the Ukrainian Army in the Dombas bombing a hospital on Monday. And also guarantee humanitarian corridors for the exit of civilians to safe areas. That is what we ask of the two parties to the conflict. Of course, assailant and assaulted do not match. But in the actions of war we ask the two not to use the civilian population as the target of their actions. Today, unanimously in this Parliament, you must send all our solidarity, all your solidarity, with the Ukrainian people, with the Ukrainian people who are also living with us and those who are arriving day by day. An example of the solidarity of all peoples with a people who are suffering and a call also to organize such solidarity so that it can be effective. Such solidarity must also be achieved with financial and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine and with the reception of all refugees. We are therefore pleased with the decision of the European Union to activate the Temporary Protection Directive for refugees fleeing Ukraine. And we hope - yes, we have missed an opportunity to do so today - that this directive and that this reception policy is permanent and that everyone is equally protected regardless of their nationality, as recently, this very morning, he requested CEAR on Radio Euskadi. And let it also serve to change the immigration and reception policy, which once again has shown its saddest, darkest face in the Bidasoa. Thousands of deaths in the Mediterranean, police repression of migrants on the southern border of Spain. The repression that Poland and Hungary are doing right now on the borders they do not have with Ukraine. Migration policy could be changed. You could. It can be. Well, let's take this fateful opportunity to do it. Russian, Moroccan, Israeli, Turkish and Iraqi bombs kill equally. People run away... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... this fateful opportunity to be able to do it. Russian, Moroccan, Israeli, Turkish and Iraqi bombs kill equally. People run away for the same reason. Our obligation, therefore, is to receive them in the same way. And at this point we cannot ignore the need - also in a context of war - to protect the work of journalists and journalists from freedom of the press in the European Union, Russia and Ukraine. We therefore criticise the absurdity of the media ban in the European Union, the censorship of the media in Russia and the detention in a European Union country of a Basque citizen, a journalist, such as Pablo González, and from today, once again, we demand his immediate freedom. And I do not want to miss the opportunity either to reject an absurd campaign that has settled in Europe of russophobia; the Russian people are the most suffering Putin in their own flesh. Thousands of people from Russia are being arrested every day for protesting against the war and demanding freedom. Let us therefore focus on our repudiation of Putin, his government and his supporter. And we support the Ukrainian people and the Russian people in this battle for peace and freedom. It is quite complicated to discuss two initiatives that have nothing more to do with the substance of the war, but I did want to make a mention - and I will also do so in the reply to the proposal we have made jointly with Euskal Herria Bildu. We do not understand how the lehendakari talks about war economy and does not meet with parliamentary groups. The Government of Spain is meeting this week with parliamentary groups to address the consequences of the war. The Basque Government, the parties that support it, refuse to create any forum. We proposed a different thing, we have now agreed another with Euskal Herria Bildu, but the Basque Government refuses to sit with parliamentary groups to address the consequences of the war and to seek common solutions. I will insist on the reply on this subject, but they are in time to support or support, or to create some kind of permanent forum, just as they are doing with economic and social actors, to do the same with political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u25	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u26	President, ladies and gentlemen. Between authoritarianism and dictatorship, between irrationality and genocide there is a very small space, which Putin has already gone through, and which only support those who have an interpretation similar to him and lean towards the fascist ideal. Without the right to life all other rights do not exist. Therefore, protecting the right to life of Ukrainian citizens has now become the political priority of all fully democratic countries and of all international bodies, including Spain, the European Union and the United Nations. Socialists are politically and institutionally committed to the solidarity, support for citizenship, national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Commitment that is imbued with admiration and respect for the heroism and determination with which they are fighting and defending their freedom and independence. Putin has become the number one enemy of democracy, peace and security in Ukraine, Europe and the world with this war. Putin has violated international legality, the Charter of the United Nations and all channels reserved for diplomacy. His expansionist trajectory recalls his military intervention in Georgia in 2008, in 2014 the occupation and annexation of Crimea, and this with the attack on Ukraine. Putin has threatened countries of neutral tradition such as Sweden and Finland, identified the Baltic nations as countries that threaten Russian security, demanded a return to NATO's 1997 borders, and threatened its nuclear arsenal. His authoritarianism leads him to the closure of independent media in Russia, to pursue and imprison opponents, to despise and trample human rights, democracy and freedom. Your tanks outside your territory are your picture. War is a language. Putin violates all the principles and values established in Europe such as national sovereignty, the territorial integrity of nations, freedom to decide fates, human rights and the right of everyone to their security. Putin has bombed diplomacy and the ability to resolve conflicts peacefully. Just as Spain decided democratically in the 1980s to unite its destiny with the European Union, Ukraine has every right and legitimacy to do so now. Putin is a genocidal and a coward. To attack in superiority and the defenceless population, and to do so for fear of the extension of democracy in Europe, while imposing its authoritarian model on the Russian population, is a great cowardice. And, therefore, we also express our solidarity with the Russian people, who are going to suffer and who are going to be persecuted for a long time for this atrocity. A people who do not want war or corruption or oligarchs who amass fortunes at the cost of their poverty. He doesn't want any more coffins occupied by deceived soldiers, many of them teenagers. A people who do not want to be pointed with their fingers out of their country, condemned to rejection, and that is why - and to the extent that they can - they also manifest themselves on the street against the war and face the harsh repression of their dictatorship. Putin's madness comes to ensure that his actions are in self-defense, to avoid Ukrainian Nazism that slaughters the Russian population settled in Ukraine. Nazism is forcing several million Ukrainians to choose between being bombed and risking death or having to travel to host countries. Faced with such barbarity, the European Union is once again working. A Union that is more and more like the one that many Europeans were demanding and encouraging: we did so in 2016 against Brexit; in 2020 against the health, economic, recovery and employment quotas; now against war. A European Union that agrees unprecedented economic sanctions for its strength... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... against the covid in health, economics, recovery and employment; now against the war. A European Union that agrees on unprecedented economic sanctions for its strength, that does so by launching humanitarian aid to help refugees and refugees, and that does so by sending defensive and offensive material to Ukraine. An attack on Europe is an attack on Spain, and that is why the Socialists defend coordinated actions between them, the activation of the European Peace Fund for the delivery of defensive and offensive weapons by the European Union to Ukraine. The European Union is providing economic resources to survive this war, to sustain its economy, for health supplies, to rebuild its most necessary infrastructure. It is also deploying economic sanctions of various kinds. War affects us all, affects our conscience, our coexistence, and our means. The arrival and reception of refugees, the lack of supplies, inflation, the price of energy, the destruction of investments, jobs and markets are some of its exponents. The affection of war to our way of life and work, to our business fabric, to the pace of growth of our economy, has already arrived: the affection to imports and exports, to investments, to the flow of tourism, affections to the primary sector, to industry, to the shopping basket, to fuels. Putin's missiles are impacting in many places and that requires response, coordinated response, unitary response, response to the level of what the Ukrainian people are doing, paying the highest price that can be paid with their life and freedom. We are obliged to curb Putin's imperial and authoritarian ambition, to review and strengthen security in Europe, to review and strengthen common and intercontinental defence. We are obliged to act more quickly and effectively on the form of political decision-making, on energy autonomy, on fiscal rules, or on migration and asylum policies. We are also obliged in Spain to maintain and improve fiscal policies to help the economy, and especially energy. Putin hit Europe in Ukraine when he thought that we were weaker because of the effects of the pandemic and the challenges of just recovery, energy transition, climate change, combating inequality. He hit Ukraine when he thought he wasn't going to find resistance. It has struck peace when it thought that international unity would fail, it has been wrong in everything and must pay for everything. In Europe we know of Nazism and destruction; in Spain we know of war and peace, dictatorship and freedom, democracy and fascism; we know of death, prison and exile; we know of constitutional order and military uprising; we know of the price to pay for defending life and freedom, and we also know of resisting and not claudiating. And that is why we also know of pain and suffering, of altruism and insolidity; we know, therefore, what is happening in Ukraine and we are moved by their heroic struggle; we know that the no to the war of Iraq is today the no to the war of Putin; we know that we are not giving the Ukrainian people everything they ask of us, but we do know that everything we are giving them yes they do. Putin should be brought before the International Criminal Court, as agreed by the Council of Ministers, so that Spain, together with 38 other countries, could seek accountability for war crimes and crimes against humanity. For all that, we have agreed on a compromise amendment, and in that compromise amendment, as has already been tabled and pointed out here, as you have, I think we are at another time, at another stage when we were able to make a united declaration three weeks ago, and that was not possible. With regard to the Committee of Study, I would like to point out that the situation we are experiencing requires taking decisions every day, acting resolutely and with prompt implementation, and that for this there is coordination between the Government of Spain and the Congress of Deputies and the parliamentary groups, with the autonomous presidents and with the Federation of Municipalities. There is also coordination between the Basque Government and Parliament, with the parliaments, with the municipalities, with humanitarian and refugee associations, and we therefore believe that there is sufficient coordination, that there are sufficient mechanisms for decision-making, and that this Parliament, as it is doing now whenever it wants, will be able to control all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u27	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u28	Yeah. Good morning, CEO. Good morning, everyone. First of all, I'd like to welcome several people from Ukraine. As Carmelus Barrius has said, when we heard that Putin had ordered the Ukraine of February 24th, we soon tried to agree with an institutional expression; we did not make a treaty. And what did we want there? First of all we said that several towns in Ukraine had been attacked, that Kiev's explosions had been heard, that the Russian forces had crossed the frontier in other parts of the country, Odsan, the Russian troops at the most important port in the Ukraine (... ), and that Russia, from the land which was illegal in 2014, was attacking them also from the Crimea. We also said that the attack had taken place from Russia and from Bélogorsk. What did we want? In the first place, these acts of war against a sovereign state were condemned without relief. The invasion was interrupted at once, and we asked Vladimir Putini to return all the troops to Russia. To take the necessary measures for the European board and the Council, if Putin and his foreign, military, personal, or foreign allies, in case of Belarus, and with all the implements available to the European Union, they may establish sanctification. We wanted to go back to diplomats, and to establish peace by itself and to avoid more catastrophic consequences, and to give aid to the Ukraine. That's all we asked for. About the first six points, we were told from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...bring it. That's all we asked for. About the first six points, we were told from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita that there were elements in the statement of reasons that they could not sign, that here there was no statement of reasons for use, simply information that was being transmitted from all the media and press agencies until 11 in the morning. In our proposal for a declaration, we called for the condemnation of unilateral extract, the cessation of invasion and the return of troops. But, above all, we called on the European Union to impose sanctions on Putin and all his accomplices or allies, such as Belarus. Of course, we were asking for a return to diplomacy. This is what we proposed on 24 February at 11 a.m., Mrs Kortajarena, at 11 a.m. and half a.m., two hours after starting this plenary session three weeks ago. We do not wait three weeks to propose a text. Three groups in this House supported the initiative: the People-Citizens Group, the Socialist Group and Euzko Abertzaleak. The other three didn't support him. Elkarrekin Podemos added, moreover, that they did not support the path of unilateral sanctions outside the framework of the United Nations. And now it comes that they do support sanctions. That is a lie, Mr Martínez Zatón, you wrote to me, and this point was fundamental in our proposal, because we knew that the European Union could not and would not intervene militarily, because the European Union is not a military alliance. We understood that Putin's inner circle, that kleptocracy organized around him, that he has stolen money from mesalva, and then placed it in tax havens, if that gang were economically beaten, they would pressure to stop military intervention as soon as possible and back off. Such a path of economic sanctions must be the most effective and rapid measure to prevent the massacre. He's a violent person, and he has no problem using any force. The example of our western democracy does not accord with the model of our human rights. Besides, Putin doesn't admit that Ukraine is a independent state, something that can't control. What Putin wants is to have a puppet state next to him, as he wants it to be manipulated. In all communications with the President-in-Office of the European Union, French President Emmanuel Macron, Putin, and there are 16 I believe that in three weeks, Putin has said in all cases that he was ready to reach the end. Putin is someone who doesn't admit that no one can resist him. It is relentless and cruel to all opponents, and if not, to ask Aleksei Navalni, Russian opponent, who was first poisoned with that method that so much likes the former KGB agents and current Kremlin tenants. He's not dead, now he's in jail. And yet, it is resisting, as it is resisting the people of Ukraine and its President Zelenski. Putin has not achieved either his war objective or his political objective. It has succeeded in reverse: the union of an entire people around its president. And besides, Putin has transformed him into a national and international hero. Putin's been planning this action for years. As Mr Prieto said, he intervened in Grozny to liquidate the Chechen problem, 200,000 dead over a population of one and a half million. He intervened in Donbas, annexed Crimea, intervened in Syria, in the Syrian conflict, to help his friend dictator Bashar al Assad, and there he also used force in a ruthless way, destroyed Grozny and destroyed Aleppo. And now he's willing to do the same in Ukraine. And like the Condor Legion in Eibar, Durango and Gernika, Putin has trained in Syria to fine-tune his military practice. It has provoked war crimes against humanity. In three weeks he has bombed more than 30 hospitals, including the maternal infant of Mariupol, with pregnant women, with children. He's bombed schools, humanitarian runners. Putin last year wrote in his book that Ukraine and Russia were the same nation, they were the same nation, they were brothers. Well, the way he treats his brothers is terror. But EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can refuse to call for sanctions against Putin and Ukraine. You used to ask all the parties, all the parties, for military de-escalation. Now the end of hostilities to reduce the risk of war in Europe, not to protect Ukraine, to reduce the risk of war in Europe. They ignore that this is a unilateral invasion, planned and decided by Putin many years ago. Often, they continue with their generic mantra of not NATO and not war. But here there is no NATO, Mr Martínez Zatón, here there is Putin who has invaded a country, and this is not the war of Ukraine, it is the war against Ukraine. Nor do they believe that Ukraine has the right to defend itself. You have to let them get killed in front of all of us. For the first time in its history, the European Union has launched a military aid mechanism. And I'm glad, because if we had received that military aid in '36, surely another rooster would have sung for Euskadi. I imagine everyone here will remember the interview, the first meeting between Bush and Putin there in June 2002, after the attacks on the Twin Towers, when Bush declared at the end of the meeting: "I met with President Vladimir Putin. I looked into his eyes and saw his soul." Years later, his Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates, said: "I met with President Vladimir Putin. I looked him in the eye and saw a murderer." For our group opposes the murderer and will support, as it cannot otherwise be, the compromise amendment negotiated between the People's-Citizens, Socialists and us. As for her intervention, on her initiative, I imagine that - now I don't have much time, but I will follow her... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Socialist and us. As for your intervention, on your initiative - now I don't have much time, but I will continue to comment on it later - it seems to me to be entrepreneurial. I think it's businesslike. I think it's businesslike. And I find it displeasure to try to extract political revenue from a human tragedy. Human tragedy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u29	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u30	I'll explain it to you in more detail later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u31	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Mythto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. It is obvious that Ukraine has been experiencing distressing moments for weeks, when military forces began the attack on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. From this part of Europe, from Spain, and therefore from the Basque Country, we want to express our total empathy with all the Ukrainian people. It pains us to imagine all the suffering that millions of besieged and bombed Ukrainians are suffering, expelled from their homes and forced to flee terrorized from their homeland, without the oppressive forces giving them a breath of breath so that they can flee safely and without fear of dying in an attempt to seek freedom. From Vox, we use this rostrum to publicly show our solidarity with the Ukrainian people, to whom we send all our support. As we also support the Zelenski Government and its street fight against this illegitimate invasion. Spain cannot remain impassable in the face of this breach of Ukrainian sovereignty. We cannot stand by the assault of its borders and the massacre of its civilian population, without the slightest apex of humanity on the part of the Russian forces. Our country must support Ukraine resolutely and decisively, with all the necessary economic and military means. This very serious violation of Russia deserves a common, uncracked response. A common response based on an express condemnation of all political representatives, something which we regrettably believe is not going to happen in this House. Or am I wrong, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu? Are we going to witness this morning how Left Abertzale condemns Russia's invasion of Ukraine? Word that they are so afraid to pronounce. Gentlemen, this war conflict is not resolved from the offices with study commissions, nor is it resolved with precision diplomacy. Although I must admit to you, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, I cannot understand what that is about precision diplomacy. We suppose that, as Yolanda Díaz would say, they refer to doing most chulsy things in the diplomatic field. In any case, what is being diplomacy without more, the negotiation of all life, little or nothing is serving in this war. None of us could imagine a few weeks ago the tremendous images that reach us on this side of Europe, the massacre that is lived in the streets of towns and cities of Ukraine, and before which we cannot remain impassable. And we are surprised by the cynicism of Bildu, defenders of ETA, that terrorist gang responsible for so many violent images of which we have all witnessed through these same television screens, and which now propose to us to deepen the ongoing work for human rights. Can you be more cynical? How dare you speak to us, without blush, of trampling on human rights, reversing freedoms, or that the path of arms does not occupy the ground of democracy? This is a mess. I suppose many of us sitting here will feel like we do, even though their inability to recognize it publicly is more than obvious. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, you are not legitimized for this. Their refusal to condemn ETA's crimes and their renunciation to restore the dignity of their victims speak for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with Vox that the Russia-Ukraine conflict calls for swift action and responses. On the one hand, this conflict has demonstrated our vulnerability, that of our nation and that of the entire European continent. It is the obligation of the Government of Spain and the Basque Government to take swift measures to alleviate the enormous consequences that the rise in electricity, gas and petrol prices is having on families and businesses. Because all of this translates into an outpouring of inflation on product prices, and it also keeps the population in check, afraid to relive the worst moments of confinement, with product shortages, something that is already visible in many supermarkets in our environment. There is a need for a strong international response to this conflict in the form of harsh sanctions and humanitarian aid to Ukraine. Similarly, from Vox we support the establishment of all the mechanisms necessary to welcome in our country Ukrainians who arrive fleeing the war, and not assaulting our borders. The Spaniards, the Basques, are a people of solidarity, and at the moment it is when we must take a step forward with facts, not words. In Vox we were the first to warn of the Russian Government's manoeuvres and call for the defence of Ukraine, but the Government was more concerned about something else, more about silencing the differences of its bipartite -- weapons yes, weapons not -- than busy in providing a common, credible, reliable and respectable response. Middle Government of Spain supports Putin's clear allies, the Cuban dictatorship, the Venezuelan narco-government. And this is unacceptable when Putin has not only invaded a country, but has threatened the entire international community with a world nuclear war. We already speak loud and clear from Vox: Spain must support Ukraine with all the economic and defensive means within our reach; of course, also with military means. Spain must welcome and accompany the Ukrainian population fleeing the war. The Government of the nation must protect all Spaniards from the economic consequences of the armed conflict. Highlight, ladies and gentlemen, that is all we need, and what the Basques also expect from the representatives of this Basque Parliament. Having said that, we will support the transactional signed by PP and the groups that support the government, because we consider that in such complicated times as those we are living is very aligned... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the transactional signed by PP and the groups that support the government, because we consider that in such complicated times as those we are living is also very aligned to the position we hold. Another proof that Vox hasn't come to churn. Why? Because we will always support all those initiatives, come from the political group that comes, that are favorable to all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u33	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the day's answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Kotha's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Some things are clear to me from today's discussion, and I think they've become very clear. The position of the Basque People in this matter is clear. It is clear to me also that every one here tells stories of history, or the circumstances that happen about proposals, as it should be, or better, because the text you mentioned, Mr. Aguirre. But you also sent us another text on Friday afternoon to our wild partner, but then you said it was late. Something like that, Mr. Barrio. Then every one tells the story as he likes it a little. Eta, bastetik, argi bear generated zait gaurko ekimenaren asmoa éz zela Ukrainian gertatzen ari denaren inguruko position amankomun bat bilatze hori. Eta lehen ere esan dut, we all signed a text a few days ago in Congress, I don't know if on that occasion Mr. Barrio seemed uncontroversial, his group also signed it. And the text leaves no room for misunderstanding, and I repeat it again, from there, the rest have certain other interests, other political objectives, and it leaves in evidence those who try to deceive with such situations. And I say it again, you'll know why you do it, but that portrays you and demonstrates your obsessions. And I thought I'd say before that, once these political positions are clear, there are other debates, and that it's time to say that we're against it, but that we're also willing to do what we're willing to do. My partner and friend Aizpea Otaegi, who is mayor of ErrenteriaOrereta, wrote in an article that it is essential to reflect on what we want to happen, and to do so together; and that we must ask ourselves what we want to happen and act so that it is possible. And here very thick words have been used by, for example, the lehendakari: "war economy, severe economic consequences, important consequences for families". And we want whatever happens if those people are protected, cared for, sheltered, and we want to act to make it happen. But that seems to Mr Aguirre to be entrepreneurship, to be entrepreneurship. Auzolana and that, right? You think it's businesslike. I'm not going to enter that provocation or your words, Mr Aguire, today as a politician and as a member of the law, when I hear your words, I feel like I'm a neighbor. And besides, I'm going to say it over and over again, but here he's talking about the serious consequences of a war. We're all saying that. The Chief Department, the President, and everyone else are talking about this situation. And is it really possible to complete a frame, build a frame for conversation, create a frame for each other? I'm shocked at this sort of thing. For I think even the debates arrive at a moment when the bearers see that they can't pay the bills of the bald man or when the public sees that they don't pay the bills, they ask us politicians for what we're prepared to do except to know what we're going to do. And we have made a proposal for each other, a proposition which is not worthy of any such thing as your correction, and which has not been worth many minutes here, and the only one who has received it has been contempt. In any case, we have our proposals, and we have our readings about the situation, our precise propositions, and we shall look for them, besides the contempt we receive, in order to convey them, in order to open the frames to the dialogue, and as a people, in order to take the measures and deliberations we need.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u36	Thank you, President. Well, let's see, Mrs Kortajarena, what we wanted is the time, because it is the time of the highest level of demand, of condemnation, of rejection, of denunciation by the Putin government that we can deploy. And that is what we have tried to bring to the House, and to approve, which will be approved in the House, the highest level of demand and denunciation and condemnation. That's the goal, there's no other goal; that's the goal. The problem is you have it. If you do not reach that level of demand, that is not contempt, that is that you do not arrive or that you are not able to deploy that level of demand, you are not capable. For the limitation, in this case, you have it, those who are not able to assume a compromise amendment where, I say again, it is practically collected... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... you have it, those who are not able to take on a compromise amendment where, I say again, virtually everything you say is collected, practically everything you say. So it is you who have some limitation in relation to what we were talking about. Because I am satisfied with the transaction, Mr. Martinez, as you can see. And the mention to NATO, because it is a mention, so to speak, collateral. But why? A side note, because it is an ally, is that it is a collaborator of the Government of Spain. I don't know what government you're in. I don't know which government you belong to. I mean, you, your party belongs to a government that is organizing the NATO summit in Madrid in June. It just seems like we have to repeat it again. That's the thing. And NATO, and the President of the Government of Spain are meeting with the other presidents of other states in a key of collaboration and cooperation, where their government is and where their ministers will be and their ministers will be at the NATO summit, because the government will be. And, in that sense, I meant, and you have to make it very clear, in point 7 it is that scandalizing this issue, point 7 of the transaction what we said first is not NATO, no, no, NATO is collateral, we supported the actions, "backs up this Parliament the actions of the Government of Spain together with its allies from the European Union and NATO to put an immediate end to this unqualified invasion of a sovereign and democratic state." That is what the Government of Spain is doing. That is what the Government of Spain is doing. That is, in that sense, you have an absolute and tremendous contradiction when you speak of NATO in that way. I mean, and sometimes you have to rectify. You talk to me here about the founding principles of your party, because sometimes we have to rectify or we have to moderate, or we have to give moratoriums on those principles, because I think it is time, especially when we are in the government, especially when we are in the government. It is also, being in the government, that I have not given credit to what I have heard from you too. Let's see, police repression on the southern border of Spain. I mean, you belong to a repressive government. Well, look, I'm going to defend the government of Spain. The Government of Spain is not a repressive government, the Government of Spain is an ineffective, useless, bad government, but it is not a repressive government, Mr Martínez; whenever we want to comment. And, of course, I defend the Government of Spain as non-repressor; it has many flaws for it to have that. Let's see. I'm the one who... in the amendment of Elkarrekin Podemos, is that the treatment that it does in point 3 in relation to the urgent appeal to all parties to the conflict so that while the hostilities last all the actors fulfill the obligations... Let's see, here something also fails, that appeal to all parties. It was the Russian government, it was Putin who invaded Ukraine. And it is Putin and his army who is committing crimes against humanity, war crimes in Ukraine. That is, that appeal cannot be equal to the parties, Mr Martínez. That appeal cannot be equal to the parties. It is not just that point of your amendment, it is not fair at all. And in that sense, because we do not share it, we do not agree. In relation, and in conclusion, with the initiative that has been presented to us, of which I have spoken less, which Mrs Kortajarena has presented to us, we find no sense in it. We find no sense in that study committee that Bildu proposes to us. We do not find it meaningful, that is, I do not know, I am also awaiting Mr Aguirre's second intervention, but we do not find it meaningful. I mean... And we do find meaning in what is also behind the compromise amendment, in support of concrete measures in different areas: the impressive increases in energy supply prices, the halting of trade in raw materials, the overwhelming shortage of agricultural products must be treated with shock, political, economic measures and the search for new forms of energy supply, new component markets, raw materials, new agri-food formulas. We will certainly talk about that tomorrow in a parliamentary speech. Well, and that has to be focused on the governments of the European Union and the European Union right now, and the autonomous governments and the entire scale of governments. That is the time, that of supporting these policies, today, of course, that of informing those governments to the parties and to the chambers, but not a commission; that is that we do not also understand their functionality, we do not see the commission and, again, I say, that of the full monograph, as you will see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u38	Thank you. I'll start with where I'm done. It has been proposed - it could be successful or not, it seems to me to be a bit rare, at least a forum for dialogue between political parties. We could have negotiated what the formula was, we had proposed another, but (...) that it is inescapable that a situation in which the lehendakari judges that we are in a war economy, that the opposition offers its cooperation to the Government to speak, negotiate and agree on measures, as I do not think... at least that entrepreneurial qualification. Shared solutions to more serious and shared problems, which, moreover, I believe, will also be raised in the plenary tomorrow by our parliamentary group. I remarque it: absolute and total solidarity with the people of Ukraine, once and ten times; condemnation, rejection and repudiation of the war and the invasion of Russia from Ukraine. To judge all the crimes against humanity being committed by the Russian army, of course, and also by its direct political leaders. That is what our joint amendment proposal we made on Saturday and signed in the Congress of Deputies, and which no group has wanted to sign, except Euskal Herria Bildu; nor the People's Party... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... joint amendment that we made on Saturday and signed in the Congress of Deputies, and that no group has wanted to sign except Euskal Herria Bildu; neither Popular Party, nor PSOE, nor PNV. What was possible in Madrid has not been possible here, and it is a shame. We offered texts at the time, in minute one, we offered them later and we also offered them on Saturday. It has been possible to sign that with the signatures of the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid and it has not been the same here. Our position in Madrid and Gasteiz has been exactly the same; exactly the same. You can't say the same thing. It can be that of "kalean use, Madrilen use, eta etxean bear"; well, eight. A statement that is approved in Congress with a text that they have not wanted to negotiate here. And, Mr Barrio, I think you have not used the best word to refer to NATO, which is, yes, our red line, and yes, we manage our contradictions: one thing is the position of the ministers and ministers, who have and are committed to a government agreement with the president's position, and another – as you also do when you are in the government – is the concrete position of social transformation and transformation of European order and security that we from the United Nations can take forward. But you have used an example which, just for NATO, uses the side word with NATO, so it does not seem to me the best example. Belgrade, 1999; I remind you, to set another example within the European Union. I am sure that you and others in this House fully remember that indiscriminate bombardment, also ordered by a former socialist minister. That's NATO: a military structure. It is not a peace structure, as can be the European Union, which is what we aspire to, or the OSCE, which is a peace structure, which is what we and we also aspire to. Therefore, we will continue to support and support all efforts and, obviously, the struggle of the Ukrainian people against the Russian invasion, obviously. But we know that the best way to stop that bloodbath and crimes against humanity is through negotiation and political agreement, and through peace and durable solutions for European security and Ukraine. I respect Ukrainian sovereignty, and also a solution to European security as a whole: from Cadiz to the Urals, that is Europe. And to welcome all people alike, because here hypocritical speeches have been made; not yours, but hypocritical speeches have been made about welcoming Ukrainian people. Of course, of course. And the example being given by the Basque people, the Spanish people and the European people in this regard is brutal. That solidarity is exaggerated. And I agree with the call (...) to organize such solidarity so that it can be effective, but let us do the same to all and all refugees fleeing conflict at war, regardless of where they come from. We have the biggest humanitarian crisis in Europe for decades. Let's face that challenge without forgetting others we have. And, Mr Barrio, yes, the Civil Guard and the National Police carried out repression against the migrants who were trying or who have tried to enter Spain along the southern border: we have criticized it, we have presented it to the Congress of Deputies and we have asked the Minister of Interior Fernando Grande-Marlaska for explanations. We will continue to do so within and outside the Government. Always. We with the principles do not negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. Martinez. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u40	President, ladies and gentlemen. In Euskadi I think there is a census of 3,000 Ukrainians, plus those who are arriving right now. If you saw the debate taking place in this Parliament, I think you would feel some shame. I believe that there are times in political life when the gravity of the situation demands a certain solemnity, and requires a proper determination of what the political objective is and what we can do in what we are claiming from that gravity of the situation. The Ukrainian people are asking us, basically, four things: they are asking us to help them humanitarianly, to help them militarily; they are asking us to help them with economic means; with the reception of refugees, and with denouncing and isolating Putin. And I assumed that that was today's center and target, almost four weeks late because on the 24th, when the war broke out, or when the invasion took place, we weren't able to agree here. And, therefore, it has been a political initiative that has brought us, divided here, as to the conception of the conflict and the ways to deal with it, and, well, it seemed that we had a new opportunity to focus on what the people of Ukraine are asking us to do and try to lift this. But, in the end, much of the debate is about the characterization of other governments about whether they call me on the phone or not, about whether to control it this way or the other... Finally, it is a debate that, frankly, I do not understand. That leaves me perplexed and that generates me quite modestly. At the moment the exact situation of what is happening in Ukraine is that if the Ukrainian people had not resisted, if the Ukrainian people had no means of resisting, we would no longer be talking about what we are talking about because Putin would have done it and therefore there would be no foot to diplomacy or foot to anything. So, finally, I have a certain... as I was saying, a certain modesty in the terms in which this debate has taken place. I believe that the... fortunately, the compromise amendment we have made is an amendment sufficiently complete and sufficiently... to be able to express in all the terms demanded of us by the Ukrainians solidarity and aid... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... with enough level to be able to express in all the terms demanded of us by Ukrainians, solidarity and help. And I think that's the only thing that saves us, that final text, because the truth that much of the debate has been frankly regrettable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u41	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr Aguire's word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u42	gentlemen, thank you, signor. Kortajarena andrea, the proposals we made on 24 in the morning were almost all approved by the European Union hours later, and all the other proposals would no longer make any sense. And I said, the train had already passed. Baina bigarren txanda honetan jarraituko dut zuen initiatibarekin. Europak eta munduak bizi two order larri honetan inoiz bath garrantzitsuagoa da giza eskubideen aldeko lan etenbean sakontzea. Giza eskubideak zapaltzen direnean, herrien eskubideak zapuzten direnean askatasunak atzera egiten du, éta, horregatik, da derrigorrezkoa Europa osoan baita Europako herrialde xiki honetan ere, inoiz baino tinkoago eskubide zabil eta politicakoen alde bidea jorratzen eta sakontzen jarratezea militarizazian eta Gerrak ez dezaten hartu demokraziaren eremua. We can fully agree, but you could have sent this initiative to Putin a month ago. This is late. Gero esaten duzue Russiak Ukrainan egindako erasoren ondorioak ezohiko dimentio eta larritasun krisia eragin du mundu osoan. Ukrainan zer? Bereziki ukrainan, ez mundu osoan. Eta beti bezala, badirudi beldurra ematen dizuela hitz batzuk ebiltzea, ez duzue exacten alde Bakarriko inbasioa, gerra, masakre, terrore-strategia, gerrako krimenak. And on the substance, from the very beginning, the Basque Government and the Basque institutions, the socio-economic agents, have worked in a coordinated way to take urgent action and alleviate the consequences of war in human and socio-economic terms. And to discuss and ask the price of gasoline or anything else in this Parliament, the effects of Putin's criminal aggression on Araba, Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa, there is no need for any special committee to last six months in any other instrument of this Parliament, committees or plenary. I understand that Ukrainian experts should be brought here to know how many war crimes have occurred and what socio-economic and human consequences the invasion of Putin has in Ukraine. I have said this before, I do not know whether this initiative has been to achieve protagonistism or create a smokescreen, but it seems that it is not reception, it seems to me to be entrepreneurial. We will, of course, vote against it. But I'm going back to the basics, to Ukraine. And I want to highlight the vocabulary you have used over these three weeks: "resuming Minsk's agreements to find a solution to the differences" and you were talking about Russian military operation. That is the language that Putin has forced all journalists to use in Russia. There is no talk of unilateral aggression and they are not differences as between neighbors who do not get along with who, no, no. This is unilateral aggression and it is a war. And it seems that talking about Russian military operation is the spring maneuvers, no. And to pretend to return to Minsk and reach an agreement within the framework of the United Nations as you said, is not to want to admit that Putin and only Putin broke the Minsk agreements and the founding charter of the UN. Eta nire buruari askotan galdetzen diot zer pentsatzen duzuen Putini buruz, ez duzue exacten. Orine erasoa salátzera ausartzen zarete, orine. Baina Putinen aurkako santzioak eskatzera ez. And Putin is a serial killer and a serial human rights violator. It is almost as if EH Bildu and Podemos now tell us that in the case of crimes of sex violence or sexual abuse the assault is condemned but not the aggressor. And we demand justice against the aggressor. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u43	Please! [[Berber]] He has the word. Please be quiet. [[Berber]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u44	jaunak : I don't know if it's hypocrisy or lack of courage or all at once. PNV protects all the measures taken by the European Union, and combines with the consent of the people of Ukraine. At such historic moments one knows what people and political parties are. PNV favors peace, liberty, and democracy, and not in any case, but in the power of man, of dignity, and of rights, by respecting democracy, and defending the rights of the people. If liberty and external attacks suffer, the right to defend itself. "Y aqua cada unno free deretrarse como quiere, nsostros seguimos apoydo la Libertava, la democracia, el pueblo de Ucrania y su prerensky el agresor." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u45	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Missita-Vox Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u46	What is clear is that the Basques are paying day by day the consequences of the war between Russia and Ukraine. There's no doubt about that. But it is obvious that a monographic debate in the Committee on European Affairs and External Action, as some groups propose, will not solve our food, industrial and energy dependence. We need concrete measures to address this crisis: are we willing to stop making money to relieve the Basques' bill? Do we settle for a parliamentary family photo and a decalogue of good intentions? For example, we could follow the example of the prime ministers - Polish, Czech and Slovenian. They are indeed supporting the Ukrainian people without fear and without half inks. They are indeed giving us a lesson in solidarity, in organization... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Prime Ministers - Polish, Czech and Slovenian. They are indeed supporting the Ukrainian people without fear and without half inks. They are indeed giving us a lesson in solidarity, organization, commitment and courage. Surely we do not imagine Mr. Sánchez or Mr. Otegi challenging the enemy siege of the besieged capital in a you with Zelenski. How unfair this government and the entire caviar left has been with the Polish Prime Minister, simply by thinking differently from the progress consensus. How many criticisms and malicious lies we have had to hear about him from the progressives of this country. On the other hand, we are pleased that there are parties in this House that join Vox in defending national sovereignty. That sovereignty that we had already talked about in Vox at the First Regional Meeting of the Madrid Forum in Bogotá and at the Madrid summit held about a month and a half ago, with more than a dozen European parties, and where we were the first to warn of the Russian threat. This is reflected, for example, in the transactional between PNV, PP, and PSOE, where they say "that the actions of the Government of Spain, together with the European Union and NATO, are supported to end the invasion of a sovereign and democratic state". Since Vox, we have always made clear our unwavering commitment to defending the sovereignty of nations, the integrity of their territory and the protection of their borders. And I say protection of your borders, because, Mr Zatón, there was no police repression on the southern border. What happened was an attack on our Civil Guard with white weapons by violent immigrants who assaulted our borders. What we find curious in the transactional is that they have knowledge of all the money embezzled and evaded from Russia to other tax havens. What we're asking you to do is that you wouldn't be much more than sharing that information that you claim to have and that seems to be not yet a proven fact. And what about how glad we are also that the Basque Government is calling for all war crimes and crimes against humanity to be investigated in order to pursue them. Something we totally agree with. Those crimes against humanity, among which they are, and which the European Parliament has defined, those close to 380 murders committed by the terrorist band ETA, and those which we have been urging in this House since Vox to investigate on many occasions with no result. This war is certainly bringing the worst out of human nature, and that is something we have to reverse. It is also curious, because I have received several questions and we have been told why we have not signed this transactional. The result is clear: because we have not amended. But we are absolutely sure, from Vox, that if we had amended this transaction, both PP and PNV and PSOE representatives, of course, would have had a good dialogue with Vox to sign it, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u47	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. It's over. We're gonna go to the discussions and votes. We're gonna assemble EH and we're together with the middle-line correction that the Podemos Group has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents, 47; abstaining, 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u48	So it's not accepted. We'll next vote for the population of the American Popular Basque Group-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists and Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; in favour of 47; on the contrary, 0; abstainments, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u49	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: EH Collect another bill of parliamentary teams, to keep the heart surgery from the ESI in the Bilbo Union Hospital. And the motion, introduced to the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörres, the member of the Ciudads, was about to close up the surgery Service of the Union Heart. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u50	Well, good morning, everybody. And I want to say hello to the medical health in the Basurto hospital before we start talking. You're at your house, even though it often looks like it's not your home. Well, on the subject we're talking about today, we're asking for three specific things. One, to keep the two surgical centres of the Basurtu Hospital and the Cross Hospital. Two ending the concert with the Polyclinic of Donostia, and between these two centres the whole EAE, between the Barsurtos and Cruces, was to give rise to the public health system. And three, studying the Medical Departments from the EAE, to examine the Kirghiz of the smaller wound of arithmetic, and the possibility of renewing the other techniques in one of the stations. In short, what we ask is, on the one hand, what works well, what is referential, to keep it. First rule in management: what is right to leave it as it is, and, where appropriate, strengthen it. On the other hand, we ask to improve the services of Osakidetza; for this, finalizing the concert with the Policlinic, and through the headquarters of Basurto and Cruces offer a reference service and attend to the entire population of the CAV. Working truly in the network, prioritizing training, research and accessibility without long delays, and in due course for such treatment in the public health system. As long as a report is not deposited on the table that argues the Board's decision to eliminate heart surgery in Basurto through data, scientific evidence, experience, results, we are faced with a cacicada. The decision has not been argued on the basis of... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... scientific evidence, experiences, results. We're in the middle of a fight. The decision has not been argued on the basis of evidence, medical processes, results. It hasn't even been taken with the parties involved. It has been a unilateral decision for reasons that we do not know, and at first sight it has no justification. The only thing we know is that the reference unit of arrhythmias that has obtained accreditations, high performance excellences, and the non-invasive techniques that it performs without cardiac surgery; but the one that needs cardiac surgery cannot continue to provide the same quality service. And therefore, it will lose the referenceality and the lines of research and collaboration open so far. So, it's a medical department that would have to argue from a report about taking the carnage out of the Basur. He's never been able to do it before. He hasn't put any arguments on the table. He put only one argument in the plune of control, and this argument is no longer supported. This argument is the decision that Osaides has made to make artificial-minded transplastals of artificial hearts. When a member doesn't make transplastators. When the transplates are sent to Valdecilla. When they're in Valdecilla, almost 60% of the EAE transplates. When it's twenty years old, it doesn't make any sense. When there are techniques that go much more often than before, when there are more need in poetry. From a strategic point of view, from a point of view of residuation, it does not make sense for all transplatatives, when it is a pathological thing that is increased to age by danger. For instance, there are 300 treatments of the Normans to be paid for by the chain. With 150 complex ones of them, or 55 valves are listed in the mouth, or ten specular valves. And we can go on giving different examples for a long time. That is to say, the planning has neither head nor foot. It's true that we've got more of the hemidenamic projections. And it is true that we must deep down and invest in these projections, although we need technology to do so, we need machines, and that requires a lot of money. And within this there are several other disputes; the abuse of commercial houses, or the member of the Osar, ought to give permission, and when it does not permit, and when the waiting lists are prolonged, the patient's lives are in danger. But we'll leave that for another time. These projections, in the case of risks, are made by cardiologists. Then we've also specialized cardiologists in the hemoodynamics, but remember that we have two specialities: Cardiology and surgery Caridiologicals. And even if there's more of the intervenition than invessive, there's no need for carbic circus beside it. If there's complications, it's got to be. And what can't be, is that in a complex situation like this, the sick are either starting to change places or to come with such planning. Membership can't endanger the patient's life. Remember how you make camo techniques. This technique is only in the Cross and the rest of the hospitals move whole gears. Porcito, we'll discuss all these equipment another day to move patients as they need to. So the decision we have in hand is not nonsense. Not from the patient's clinical security point of view, nor from the health care of the Osar. And this is no contest between the two hospitals, or it's not a question of professional egotism. This decision has a direct effect on the attention of the patient, in the resistance the patient will receive. And that's what we care about. And this problem has nothing to do with it except that the hospital in the Basurto will be emptied. That's a problem, but it's not that either. We have to put a patient here at the target and center. And it doesn't make any sense five years ago making an investment of 17 million to renew surgical blocks and make 2,500 interferences a year, and now decide to come with this decision. There's no point in making more investments at the cross when it demands to take that activity there. This is not a proper tax of public money. It doesn't make sense, as we have a list of waiting, to remove service from the boar and carry it to the Cross, because the list of waiting will extend, and they will not be reduced. And if you're telling me this isn't the case, I'd like to ask you to explain why it's not like that and how they'll be able to reduce the list of waiting. Because the blocks we've got are surgical, and even though they're more professionals, they're not operating anymore or they're not doing the other operations they did until now. Look, we know that a certain amount of interference is needed for a minimum of performances, a minimum for special initiatives. We know we can't have everything in all the hospitals. But this is not the Basurto case, this is not the Basurto case. It's not the case with the Cardiology of the Basurto. In it we have a reference unit, which has contracted results, has acres, has forms and investigations, and works with the state's reference hospitals. And it's no use, and that's why we're sorry. That's why we need to keep the carp and keep it going. And it's no good to say what we're going to do, we're going to consult them. No. It's useless. It's useless. The question, then, must be answered: Why do we persist in removing and modifying what works well? Why? What's the reason... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it is necessary for him. Why do we persist in removing and modifying what works so well? Why? What's the reason? And why now to insist, to drive such an effort to Cruces, not just the case in the Cardiology of the Basurto, because there are other movements which lead everything from other hospitals to the Cross. Someone has to explain what's the reason for that. So, to finish this shift, what we're trying to ask of the Medical Department and Osarbe, is to rethink the decision. When A ver, 38 to 36 officers, nearly the entire hospital is against the committee, when the unions are against it, at least when the unions are against it, at least we should stop to examine it, rethink it, and put it back to a table. What we're asking for is a table with professionals, experts, with complicated parts, check out data, results, scientific evidence. And what we ask is that the best decision to be taken should be for the public health system, but especially for the patients and especially for the clinical security of the patient. And in conclusion, I would say, we have agreed to a middle course together with Podemos-Nozzerz. And, well, we also wish to encourage those groups which support the government, and to give way to this half-way, because we might be more accountable in this arrangement, but somehow we too, in this middle way and in this search of remedy, have descended a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning, congressmen. Tambien, welcome all of you who are here and who are following this interesting debate. We tabled this motion based on the interpellation which was extended on 4 March to the Councilwoman, in which we had the opportunity to discuss with her, although obviously the turn closed it and we were unable to discuss some of the issues to which she referred in her second round, and which I will also use in this speech to make a reference to them as well. We present this inquiry because we did not understand the decision of this government, of the department, of the management of the Hospital de Basurto, but that we believe it is a decision of the department itself, and that it also comes from years ago, I do not think it is a decision..., that although we believe that for nothing justified. And, above all, it shows this because the great discomfort and concern that has generated not only between professionals and users. In this sense, I would therefore like to highlight the courage of these professionals. 36 out of 32 heads of service is not a baladi figure for nothing, and to dismiss, counselor, Mr. lehendakari. The managing director of Basurto too. I think so many professionals at the same time can't be wrong. And I therefore believe that to that request for reflection, to reconsider a decision, deaf ears cannot be made at all. I say that this question was made, and seeing that there was no justification in that decision, this group considered it appropriate to present this motion by urging the Basque Government directly to reconsider the decision to close the Cardiac Surgery Service of the University Hospital of Basurto. I think the reasons are obvious. You know them, too, because you were already scolded by the professionals themselves in a letter in January and today in a medium of communication I think that also all Basque citizens have had the opportunity to read them before what I would call a hit in the decision to close the Service of Cardiac Surgery of Basurto and centralize it in Cruces. I believe that we must clearly call things by their name and talk about dismantling the Hospital de Basurto, to which I will also refer later. This service, the Cardiac Surgery Service of Basurto, is the... The Hospital de Basurto is also the oldest in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And, no doubt, the elimination of this important service would mean a decline in the cardiology not only of Bilbao, Bizkaia, but of the entire Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And this decision, as I have already indicated in my question to the Counsellor, affects specific areas, three specific areas, such as care, training and research. I am not going to entertain myself on too many technical issues because I believe that they have been clearly reflected by the professionals, who are also those who know about this issue and who have, of course, the authority to talk about it in their documents, in their letters, as it appears today in a medium of communication. But in the field of care, in short, it can be said that it will affect in what has to do with diagnostic and therapeutic techniques, to structural percutaneous intervention, to the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, to cardiovascular emergencies. As has been said here and I also pointed out in my inquiry of 4 March, it is a reference unit in terms of arrhythmias. There is going to be a greater risk for patients because of the need for transfer and the consequent delay in the intervention, such as patients with aortic dissection, complications of heart attack, an issue that I highlighted last March 4th the counselor and I did not get an answer. Also the procedure that the Cardiology Service will stop performing, such as percutaneous treatments of certain vascular diseases and certain arrhythmias. Some of these treatments that are only performed in Basurto today. We also did not get an answer from the counselor about what is going to happen to these treatments that are only being done today in Basurto. And, therefore, Basurto is a reference center. Future projects also that remain in the air, such as arrhythmia surgery, that would remain... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...they only take place today in Basurto. And, therefore, Basurto is a reference center. Also future projects that remain in the air, such as arrhythmia surgery, which would be cancelled, we also did not get a response, and also the possible side effects in other services, such as respiratory vascular. As far as waiting lists are concerned, this issue has also not been answered. And, above all, it draws attention to the fact that it is not answered when the health officials are constantly talking about improvements in waiting lists, that the health services offered to Basque citizens are continuously improving. Because this decision clearly makes waiting lists worse, there is a risk that waiting lists will get worse, that they will increase. Because if you take out surgery in Basurto, you won't be able to do any more surgeries, that's clear. Or, counselor, are you considering works at Cruces to increase the operating room? Are there works on Cruces? When in 2017 17 million euros were spent on reforms in this hospital, which had to do with the opening of six new ORs or a new area of intensive care. If we were all in this picture. This was a bet, a bet for Basurto Hospital. Lehendakari, Councillor Darpón, former Councillor Darpón, then Councillor Murga, Mayor of Bilbao, former Director General of Osakidetza. Wasn't this, at the time, a bet on Basurto? What happens now? Four or five years later, did we dismantle the Basurto Cardiac Surgery Service? Well, explain it to me. Because you, then, deserve a suspension in investment resource planning in Osakidetza. Because what can not be done an investment of 15 million euros in operating rooms in Basurto and at four years arrive and tell us to close the Cardiac Surgery Service of Basurto. It's just that I'm with what the lehendakari said then. I don't know if those words have been carried away by the wind. That this investment would significantly improve the attention that 360,000 neighbours of Bilbao and Alonsotegi receive. What's going on? That those neighbors now have no right to be given that attention? Why four years ago or five years ago yes and now no? These questions, of course, I think they should be answered because, among other things, they leave them in evidence. I would also like to refer to some of the questions, Commissioner, with which you have tried to create confusion in your reply to the question we have put to you from our group. Especially when he was talking about homogenizing indicators, unifying protocols for care, training, professional and personal development. Issues that professionals know very well and that is what they have been dedicated to professionals. And I don't know that this... why it brought up these issues that had nothing to do with what we were talking about. But already the crayon of the cake is when you talk about implanting the permanent mechanical heart, when you know that it cannot materialize for several reasons. This technique only makes sense in those hospitals that already perform heart transplants. And in Euskadi, as we know, there is none, because, as the counselor well knows, we all know, that the heart and lung transplants in the nearest center are done in Valdecilla. And even though heart transplants will be performed at Cruces, it would not be guaranteed that artificial hearts will be implanted since, as the counselor well knows, only two hospitals throughout the State is where this technique is performed. He therefore tried to divert attention from this proposal which you know is false and which is not going to be able to lead to reality. On the other hand, multidisciplinary teams have been set up in the various single services which would be clearly damaged. Procedures related to the Cardiac Surgery Service, which is clearly increasing its demand for population ageing. Cardiovascular emergencies, such as a dissection of the aorta, where the transfer is a complication, which I have told you before. Acute myocardial cases may be increased; mortality could increase in these cases if cardiac surgery is not available as other hospitals may have. There would be obvious discrimination here. Complex difficulty situations, such as a pandemic scenario, require more than one center for what are the attention of complex surgeries. Not to mention the possible appearance of a focus that forces a whole surgical area to close. You didn't respond to this the other day either. Also one of the issues or one of the areas that would be seriously damaged and affected is the teaching field, where the teaching offer in a reference hospital, such as the Hospital de Basurto, would be clearly impoverished. At a time when we need to increase the teaching offer, we take it and we decrease it with this decision. But I'm finishing up. I'd like to know... And it is the answer that is in the mind of all the professionals affected, not directly affected, citizens of Bilbao, Bizkaia, the whole Basque Country, because we are all affected, especially in view of the statement that the other day you told us that it is that they work in network. If you work online, we will be affected by this decision, obviously, all Basque citizenship. What is behind this decision, Madam Counsellor, Mr Lehendakari? What is the rationale behind the decision that a reference hospital has run out of autopsies, no pediatric oncology, that there will be no genetics laboratory, and that this also has consequences for other services? Why everything to Cruces? Why all of a sudden all of Cruces? I also wonder today, as the Mayor of Bilbao wondered at a meeting, what interest the Department of Health may have in dismantling the Hospital of Basurto. What interest does this department and government have in dismantling a reference hospital and in this case the reference Cardiac Surgery Service? Does it also have to do with inadequate planning of assistance resources in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country? Because that would also be to make him look at it. Because if you are not competent to properly plan the assistance resources of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, when above we are the autonomous community of Spain that we spend the most per capita, of course, that would show that you all have to go home. What does that have to do with anything? With the decision to open Urduliz? What's he supposed to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u54	... a job download at Cruces. Well, all these questions are in the air. Obviously, we will support the amendment signed by Podemos and EH Bildu. But I'll do a math on the... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...well, all these questions remain in the air. Obviously, we will support the amendment signed by Podemos and EH Bildu, but I will do a matization in the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u55	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u56	Yeah. Thank you, chief physician. I'm going to look... I think I'm going to be – this time – brief, because the truth that most, most of the arguments that the two spokesmen of the two groups that preceded me, so from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we share them when we question or position ourselves against this decision, which seems to be that it has already taken definitively – it seems to be – the Department, right? The decision that will lead to the disappearance of cardiac surgery at Basurto Hospital. There are certainly other issues that we do not agree with the Group of the European People's Party, which I believe Mrs Garrido has left for her second intervention, but which are of course very important to us. Well, we agree with a concern that has moved us - logically - the professionals of this hospital, but that we have also been able to share with some other agent, trade union in this case, on the possibility of a devaluation of the Hospital de Basurto in relation to this issue, beyond the organizational debates of the Osakidetza ensemble. It is clear that this decision will lead to a reduction in accessibility. It is true that the Hospital de Cruces is a short distance away, but we must take into account the investment already made and the means available at the Hospital de Basurto at the moment. And, therefore, eliminate this service from there, so it seems to us a bad business that very well has to be compensated with what is done in Cruces. Moreover, it will mean a reduction in the activity of the Basurto Hospital, which will require additional investments if it is to be maintained - as it seems that the groups supporting the Government have introduced, if it is to be maintained - the stake for a Basurto Hospital in condition. And this is going to have a number of negative consequences on other services in the hospital itself and, ultimately, which is what I think concerns many of the agents who have transferred their concern to us, the impoverishment of the Hospital de Basurto in terms of care, in terms of training and in terms of research on which we are drawn. Of course, surely, the Government and the groups supporting the Government - and I believe that this is reflected in the final part of their amendment - want to dispel those doubts about the unequivocal bet by Basurto Hospital. What we also see is that we understand those who are showing this concern, because there are indeed precedents that are a cluster: it has been mentioned here that autopsies, pediatric oncology and, apparently, the genetic laboratory are no longer given. And in the end, they are a number of issues that are normally concerned about the professionals working in that hospital. And, of course, my group does not see this issue as a localist claim; we understand that Osakidetza has to be organized in a way that serves as a public service to all the citizens of Euskadi. But it is clear that the dismantling of a service in a hospital that already has an infrastructure must be accompanied by very concrete and very clear reasons so that we can be convinced that this decision is the right one, and at the moment it does not exist. We have listened to the Counsellor when she has answered the parliamentary questions and, of course, we see clear arguments in those who are transferring her questioning to that decision; from the sphere beyond Parliament, with the professionals and with some union. And we do not hear enough concrete arguments for our group to be convinced that this is a good organizational decision. And, on the other hand, we do see clearly the negative consequences that explain to us those who are concerned about this issue. That is why we are going to ask - we ask in this transaction to which we have arrived - and we are in that position to oppose this decision. Some of the reasons that we have been able to hear, some of which we have been able to hear, for we see that they actually have nothing to do with organizational issues. Some of the answers we have heard, "homogeneize indicators", "unify protocols", "professional development", etc., have nothing to do with it, because sometimes, to seek one goal can be done through one means or another. And it can be centralized in Cruces, as proposed by the Department, or it can be done working, maintaining a service that has an infrastructure already underway in Basurto, as is currently the case. And, therefore, we lack - of course - reasons. We, on reorganization - and taking advantage of the debate - are very concerned about this, because we think that this centralization on the Cross - or at least this is what we also hear from the professionals - will also require an additional investment on the Cross, because if it is not going to be difficult for it to absorb the full workload at this time. And that concerns us especially because, if you don't make that investment, what can happen? A process that is sometimes customary and that, sometimes - in our opinion - is deliberate, which is: waiting lists, detour to the private. And we're worried about this. So what we want to add in this debate is to invite the government to reorganize... which sometimes does not have the agents, as we see that this is the case... start by reorganising the health system so that the whole population of Euskadi can go to public services. And you know, because that's what we say whenever we intervene... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... that all the people of Euskadi can go to public services. And you already know - because we say this whenever we intervene - that for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita public services are direct public services, direct public services. I'm not very territorialist, I don't think they've heard me say it many times, and I think some parliamentarian even thought I was a vizcay, but I'm a Gipuzcoan, and I don't get to think that if I have to go to this service I have to go to the Gipuzkoa Policlinic, private hospital; I don't get to think about it. We, if the reorganization of the system is so that the system can guarantee direct care in public hospitals to all citizens, will find us there, will find us in that reorganization. Even though there may be collectives who can question it. We are therefore now in the position that this decision is not correct, is not sufficiently justified, and that the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of the Basque Country does not give sufficient guarantees to those who are concerned about the devaluation of the Basurto Hospital that this decision may entail. Therefore, we do not share it and we will remain in that transaction that we have signed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mystto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. It happens with some help that in this Parliament we are dealing with very technical debates, that politics, the particular interests of each party, are often clouding and clouding, and this is one of the cases. I, as a Member of Parliament, am not going to be an expert in health management and to defend one option against another. I do not think that should be the role of the majority of people in this House, even more so because this is an issue where managers and professionals are most important. And I don't think any of us sitting here are, even though sometimes it seems like we're sitting here sitting judges, doctors, epidemiologists, historians. Many of these professionals have already demonstrated their position against the closure of the Cardiac Surgery Service of the Hospital de Basurto to incorporate him into the Hospital de Cruces. And here we do believe that it is vital to take this into account, because the professionals have spoken. They warn of possible loss of care capacity, risk of collapse, loss of image and relevance of the Bilbao hospital, of the negative impact on the interest it arouses among health professionals, of worse service for the whole citizenry. These are issues that we believe need to be taken into account and cannot be justified on such ambiguous grounds as those raised by Councilwoman Sagardui, who intended to settle the matter by referring to necessary organizational measures that would not have a negative impact on the population. Words that fulfill it and cover everything, used to explain almost anything; but they are empty words of content. And here I do believe that we need to focus the various parliamentary groups on making use of diametrically opposed ways of managing those proposed by this government, which is, for the most part, entrenched in this Parliament. Because we are not a few who are fed up with this undisguised authoritarianism, both in this House and in the street. And that is the basis of our amendment, because we believe that this Government should support its decisions in technical reports as impartial as possible, because such reports should be public, known to all and subject to the assessment of technicians and professionals with criteria for evaluating them. Because we understand that those working on the ground - in this case, health professionals - should have a voice in the process, and they are not obliged to resort to joint communiqués or collection of signatures to curb the executive's authoritarian inflation. Go ahead and see that it is very strange, absolutely incomprehensible, for this government to plan to take the Cardiac Surgery Unit from Basurto to Cruces, only five years after having inaugurated it with great pomp and rumor, as said by a spokesman who preceded me. And besides, they did it with the lehendakari at the front. It doesn't seem reasonable. And if it were really for organizational reasons, as they argue, it would reveal the most dubious capacity of our managers to advance to a future that, in this case, was predictable. It is true that in the pandemic they have already given evidence of this, of their inability to manage, which is also beginning to be a sign of the identity of this Council. But in this case they were shielding themselves in the variability of the virus, in the ignorance of a highly contagious virus and in its incidence; but now they have no excuses. The reorganization of services is not something new, it is something you should know about, and much more. That is why we advocate that the Urkullu cabinet make every effort to keep this unit open, to improve coordination with Cruces, to continue exploring the formula of the concert with private entities; something that today guarantees health coverage for Gipuzkoa patients who require the highest quality heart surgery, and that without this they would not be able to do so. That is, in Vox we want the Basurto Cardiac Surgery Unit to remain open, at least until the government convinces us and the healthcare professionals that there is a better alternative. To this end, it should make public the reports with which it works, if it is working with any report, because we are getting used to shielding ourselves after many reports that do not actually exist, and whose non-existence, moreover, has been harshly criticized also by the judges. And in order to convince us, the promoters of this merger of units should make an effort to explain at parliamentary level their plans, to account for their motivation, the expected impact of their decisions, what they intend to resolve, how, in what terms and at what costs. Refusing to do so would be a new manifestation of authoritarianism and imposition, despite whosoever it may be; and, basically, because it gives them the will. Well, for organizational reasons, that's the same as saying because it gives us the urge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u59	Thank you, Mrs Martínez, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours. [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... Mr. Rico, I'm sorry, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to greet those who are with us today, and with some of them we have been gathered. And they will also allow me to try to focus on the issue that we are discussing, because some of the interventions that we have seen during these weeks and various statements made by politicians in the media, it turns out that some people today may be thinking that the Cardiology Service of Basurto Hospital will close. And that's not the case. And they're going to allow me to tell you that it seems to me a fear to have heard how we heard this statement a few weeks ago in some question made by some of the groups that have preceded me, when they know it's not. No one doubts that it is legitimate to subject to criticism the decisions and announcements that are made by the public authorities, but what is not welcome is to seek to replace the analytical work that we have entrusted with by a kind of political sensationalism, which is not even part of reality anymore and that the only thing that it seeks is to raise the alarm at events that are not even being raised. And I think we need to be clear about this, because with this kind of premeditated assertions and ambiguities, it turns out that, today, there are many people who may be thinking that the Basurto Cardiology Service is going to be eliminated, that it is going to disappear, and that it is going to close. And that's just fake. And, honestly, I don't understand what dark interests these kinds of claims can obey. And if I want to be so clear with all this, it is because on a false claim it has also been intended to generate a false and free alarm, which has caused thousands of citizens of good faith - from Bilbao and around - to think that what has been proposed is to close that Cardiology service in Basurto. And, again, it's not like that. Let us therefore clarify, let us make it clear to the citizenry that no one - let alone the Basque Government - has put on the table the closure of the Cardiology Service of Basurto Hospital. That is not at issue, as has even been clarified by the Health Adviser herself before this very Parliament. That is, to make it even clearer, all cardiology services will continue to be offered at Basurto Hospital, and even Osakidetza wants to enhance the endowment and activity of external consultations, hospitalization, functional tests, electrophysiology, cardiologic interventionism and hemodynamic tests and therapies. I mean, let's not shut down the Cardiology Service in Basurto. On top of the table, the only thing there is a reflection that, by the way, is not even novel, but that has been developed over many years already, holding meetings with the different responsibles and agents affected, around the desirability of unifying the complex heart surgery of Basurto and Cruces in a single service. But where does that reflection come from? Because of some of the interventions that have preceded me, it may seem that this is a mere whim of the Department or that it is a manoeuvre to reduce and cut down, when the reality is that it is neither reduced nor cut down nor a single cash. This reflection comes from the recommendations that scientific societies have been carrying out for many years, after analyzing the relationship between mortality and the volume of activity of hospitals and professionals for certain medical and surgical procedures. And all studies show the same result: hospitals with the highest volume have better results in their survival. No more or less. In this sense, as early as 2011, the Spanish Society of Cardiovascular Thoracic Surgery estimated that the optimal volume of major cases should be greater than 600 per center per year, and identify 70 major operations per year that should be performed, at least, by each surgeon. And this was already reflected in the standards and recommendations of the Ministry of Health, which came to say textually "that it is recommended not to provide a Cardiovascular Surgery Service to that hospital where a minimum of 600 surgical interventions are not performed a year". Recommendation that has continued to be maintained until today. In fact, if you take a look at the RECALCAR record of the past 2021, dependent on the Spanish Society of Cardiology, you will see that on page 33 it proposes that the low number of services that respects this minimum of 600 interventions - and I read textually - "probably indicates the need to make appeals management decisions". Well, if 600 is the minimum of recommended major cardiac surgery interventions, let's look at the reality in the Cruces and Basurto hospitals, two hospitals just over four kilometres apart. Each year the data vary, but in the Hospital de Cruces there are between 400 and 500, and in that of Basurto, between 250 and 300. That is, separately neither of the two reaches those 600 required interventions, but if they join together, they do exceed it. That simple. And if that parameter is reached, the fact is that we will be able to opt for access to significant authorizations of new services and techniques and position the Cardiac Surgery Service as a reference service at state and European level, both by volume of activity and by the results obtained. Therefore, in order to collect, if the Service of Cardiology of Basurto does not close, but will be given all the services that are given today, even to enhance the endowment and activity of them, and if with the simple unification of the Service of Cardiac Major Surgery - which today is given in two centers to just four kilometers - we are able to comply with the recommendations of the scientific societies and, with this, to be able to access better techniques and services for citizenship, where is the problem? Where's the cut? or where is the injury to citizenship? As our amendment says, the Basque Government's commitment is to consolidate and strengthen public health services on the basis that people are the central axis of the health system's action. And, in this regard, we believe it is necessary that in the planning of its integrated network of present and future services, especially in highly complex procedures, the priority should be the continuous improvement of the quality and efficiency of care, with the standards and recommendations of scientific societies as reference points for planning. Something that, by the way, has been put on the table on many occasions by the groups that are saying today that it seems to be not applicable to this case. And that is in many of the amendments that you have put to us over the years. And having clarified this point, frankly, I don't think it is appropriate to raise this issue as if it were some sort of... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... throughout all these years. And having clarified this point, frankly, I do not think it is appropriate to raise this issue as if it were a kind of inter-hospital competition, because they are all part of a single health service, and the aim is for the Basque population to receive the best possible care, the best point and the best results. Nor does it correspond to reality coming here to question the Hospital de Basurto and its future, because it is not in doubt either. The University Hospital of Basurto has its own project of future and proof of that future is also the construction of the faculty linked to the Health Sciences. And to make it clear, our amendment wants to be clear on this point, urging the Department of Health of the Basque Government to ensure that the Hospital de Basurto is maintained as an assistance reference for Bilbao's citizens with the human resources and the infrastructure that it requires, as well as that training and research can be properly developed as appropriate for a university hospital, and that it will soon live with the new Faculty of Health Sciences. Because they would be very worried about Basurto, but the only amendment that reflects this commitment is that of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. Therefore, if you are so concerned, I will make you a proposal: we are prepared to vote for our amendment on points. Vote in favour of this point. Because in your amendment you will be very concerned, but the only amendment that captures this clear support for the Hospital in Basurto is the one we signed today, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. In short, the Socialists argue that the Basurto Hospital remains the benchmark for the citizens of Bilbao, and to this end we urge the Basque Government to guarantee the human resources and infrastructure that this requires. And this is not hampered by the fact that in order to meet the minimum requirement of 600 interventions in major cardiac surgery per center, done by the Spanish Society of Thoracic Surgery and Cardiology, resources are organized in the services of Cardiac Surgery of the University Hospital of Basurto and the University Hospital of Cruces in a single headquarters. Because as it has been proposed, in Basurto they will continue to offer all the services of Cardiology enhancing the...?) and cardiologic interventionism activity, hemodynamic tests and therapies and external consultations. And this unification referring to major cardiac surgery will benefit citizens, because it will allow us to access better techniques and thus offer better services to patients. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u62	Thank you, Miss Congresswoman. Good afternoon, chiefs. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. What are we discussing today? The transfer of the cardiac surgery team from the Hospital de Basurto to the Hospital de Cruces. No misrepresentation. Transfer, not closing. The resources of Cardiac Surgery of Basurto and Cruces are organized in a single headquarters, in Cruces. We talked about this today. We talk about planning and organization. And what are the objectives of this planning, this organization? With the aim of providing citizens with the best possible health service. Improving care in terms of quality and efficiency, which is already the best of the state and is valued with remarkable by the citizenry, seeks to position the Cardiac Surgery Service as a reference service at the state and European level by volume of activity and by the results obtained. And this will also allow you to choose to perform activities that are currently not possible due to the lack of specialization, concentration... in powerful services. Therefore, objective: to improve, vision of continuous improvement and planning. And that's why, Mrs. Ubera, we're not going to leave things as they are when they can be improved. We're going to get better, we're not going to stay anchored, which is what you want. And this decision on what basis has been made? Technical-scientific basis that we find in various publications and that today you, Mrs Ubera, define as a cacicada. So let me tell you, let's see the publication of the Spanish Society of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery of 2019, the manual of standards and recommendations of the care units of the Heart Area of 2011 of the Ministry of Health, and as recently as March 2022: the new Master Plan of Cardiac Surgery of Catalonia. They all support this decision to unify specialties such as heart surgery. Therefore, we are talking about non-closing transfers made on a scientific technical basis and in order to improve the quality and excellence of Basque public health. More topics to whom this move would affect. Today they talked about cardiac surgeons, about Cruces vessels to the rest of Basurto's teams, who do not move the patient to the activities as such. Let us therefore consider whether or not it has the impacts that exist. Certain political groups claim that I will try to analyse and do so with arguments. First, the surgeons, charges moving from Basurto. Crosses. Letter that they like very much the letters, because here you have a letter of February of February of this year, signed by the Cardiac Surgery team of the Hospital de Basurto. Team moving to Cruces. And it says, literally, we believe that fusion only brings added value. And I continue a strong and competitive service, which regardless of its location, of satisfactory solutions to the needs of Basque citizens. Clear opinion that the medical services you always have to listen to, huh? Mrs. Garrido and Mrs. Ubera. Not just when they're interested. I remind you of Bidasoa. Here too, here too. Second group of possible victims: their Cruces counterparts, where the two teams will be grouped together. I'm not critical here. And why you'll be Mrs. Ubera and Mrs. Garrido. Because the sum brings value, makes you grow, develop professionally. A larger team, a greater professional experience grouped in the same headquarters can only generate added value. Third group that you also mention: the teams of the different specialties of Hospital de Basurto... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...the same headquarters can only generate added value. Third group that you also mention: the teams of the different specialties of the Hospital de Basurto, particularly Cardiology, and who collaborate with the cardiac surgeons who would move to Cruces. What questions do they point to? On the one hand, the interventions shared with the cardiac surgeons who move to Cruces, collaboration and support that today EH Bildu and the People's Party say would disappear. False, it's false. The Department, in an impact analysis, proposes to maintain a surgeon's device and (percussionist?), in a programmed manner, in the days on which the structural invasive procedures of greatest risk are planned by Basurto Cardiology, in order to maintain the current activity of cardiology. On the other hand, the loss that the Hospital de Basurto could suffer in front of that of Cruces. None. None. Basurto has magnificent forecasts of the future, and all hospitals in Osakidetza work in network, yes, they collaborate, they do not compete, they complement each other. Do not seek confrontation, and do not despise those hospitals that do not have cardiac surgery, such as the University Hospital of Araba, Galdácano or Donostia. Basurto has its own project, further strengthened with the new facilities, the new faculties of Medicine, Nursing and Physiotherapy. More training, more research, better results. More muscle to be a reference center. And please do not confuse citizens, because unifying does not mean - as they are moving - the disappearance of services. It will not be this complex procedure in particular, but yes the other surgical techniques, external consultations, specialization... That's all there is to it. And it's not just that it stays, it's that it's even going to be enhanced, starting from those investments that you've commented on today - those that were made - and that will continue to be made. For, as I said, it will be strengthened, not only will it be maintained, but it will be strengthened. In any case, if this group sees this uncertainty or this need, as Mr Rico said, our amendment intends to answer it. And so we urge the Basque Government to have Basurto as an assistance reference for the citizens of Bilbao, with the human resources and the infrastructures that this requires, and with a view to training and research. We respond to your concerns. That is why, as Mr Rico said, we invite you, we propose you to vote for our amendment on points, and we invite you to vote in favour of this point. Fourth block: patients and patients. Itxaron zerrendak komentatu due, ezta? Bada, begira ezazue the action plan of improvement of waiting lists, action six: centralization of processes of high complexity. That's how waiting lists get better. On the basis of what do you say otherwise? More. Without prejudice to the few four or five kilometers between Basurto and Cruces, I ask you a question: if you were to face heart surgery, complex surgery like heart surgery, where would you operate? At the nearest site or where it offers you the best results? The answer seems obvious, but to Mrs Ubera and Mrs Garrido that does not matter; the only relevant thing is the mere fact of the transfer. It seems to them a real drama, the same dramas as in Txagorritxu and Bidasoa, not to mention that we are talking about improving the quality of care for patients. We also speak that except for those who live... I can't say... Therefore, in Indautxu, approaching Basurtus or Cruces is indifferent to them. And it is that, in this case, moreover, considering that more than one third of the operations of Basurto are derivatives of the OSI of Barrualde-Galdakao. Drama, Mrs Ubera, that nothing implies, instead, moving from Gipuzkoa to Basurto or to Cruces. Zuk proposeatzen duzu Basurtu eta Gurutzetako hospitable bi hauen artean Euskadi osoari kardiakoko zerbitzua ematea, eta hor ez dago arazorik. Basurtutik Gurutzetara joatea bai, baina Iruneko puntatik Basurtura joatea, hor ez dago inolako dramarik, inolako arazorik. In the earlier control meeting question, you, Mrs. Ubera, asked or asked the chief physician if you'd like to ask him if you'd like to take care of the patients of quality health. Well, today, what you propose, as you see, has a contrary direction. The Department of Health is pursuing this decision with a single conviction: improving the quality of heart surgery in Euskadi. There's no more. And in order to achieve this goal, a reorganization is necessary, which is to centralize in Cruces, because it is the hospital that has the space, the infrastructure and the necessary endowments. We are a small country, with just over two million inhabitants. We cannot have all the services, less in every territory and under our house. There is not enough population volume, and we could not offer a quality service like that offered by Osakidetza. Let us not lose sight of the fact that what we seek is to improve people's health, and that the decisions that are made have that sole purpose: better results, optimal results, quality, good infrastructure and good professionals. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing by the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u64	Look, this is not an EH Collect account. This isn't about Podemos. This is not a party confession thing. I'm only sure professional health wants the best service, as you say, to have the best services in charity and charity. And he needs heart service, charity service, for good, yes, or yes, surgery. Yeah? And it's not very common, isn't it very common in this town, at Osar school, with the chief officers? To be opposed to a decision for − Osamates. And this is for a reason. And you know what drama is, really? I'm not listening to professional health. It's not like listening to EH Collect or something. You've only mentioned a letter to me, but I'd ask you why they didn't sign that card. You know... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... It's not like listening to EH Collect or that. You've only mentioned a letter to me, but I'd ask you why they didn't sign that card. You know why they didn't sign that letter, go and ask why they didn't sign it. But, you see, at least 36 of 38, head services, comite companies, unions, when they say they don't share. That's why, Mr. Erkoreka, and that's what I wanted to ask you, I just wanted to ask the president to sit around a table and talk about it, because I'm sure they want to improve their service. And what is not understood is that when we have a reference service, they start changing it, and they also have suggested alternatives for service. You're so fond of collegees de gestion clínic. Yo no voy a ser le defensora de la las undides de gestion cínica, but they've actually made proposals on the network, like teams, to play and move equipment where the patient is. And what you plan is... Well, that's it, isn't it? It's about improving the service. And besides, you plan to change places and do another work, to make another work, when we did it five years ago, another work. It doesn't make any sense, either, it's not planning, it's gestivity and nothing, it's nothing. That's drama. Then let's be serious. And those reports you've been talking about very well. Put those reports on the table. These reports, the standards, the results of the Basurto, the results of Cruces, the process, the whole thing on the table, which will be the first to understand, will be those standards which will understand the first ones; but they have not been told that it is not. And the only argument that has been put, was the only argument of artificial transplant, an occurity, an occurity. And that's a drama, and that's what's going on in this town. Look, it's understandable, because a reference unit, in order to be advanced in the study, does not need to consult them any more, it's just what the medical service requires to be a surgeon's service with it. That's what he needs. She is the son of Bentan alde vadin bagaud Basurto dotazzeko, indartzeko, ez dismantlelatzeko, zuen ekimena defendatzeko, babesteko. Bina, begira, hau, this is not about amendments, texts or words, but it is about facts, it is about facts. And your facts are not consistent with your words, that is, it has nothing to do with it. Then what we have to do is the first dejarnos de shovelbraía, y más hazos paratitzar una asceticia de calidi al pacente, con secureidad ccinic. For, look, the great headlines are very good at the means, but the routine is beyond the great headlines; and in this routine the chief of service, professionals, patients must be attended to, and the patient needs the best possible service. So that's what we have to guarantee. And that's what makes you all talk, interview, and that's what you haven't done, that's what you haven't done, and I'm very sorry about it, not Basurton, or Santiago, or Bidas, or anywhere. Look at the sectorial table. Not anywhere. If, then, this happens, even if I at least thought that we were right, stop, stop, and begin to talk and listen, not to all of us who are interested. Because probably we're not all right 100 percent. And, look, if we only have one dwelling in the surgical heart, we have seen in the pandemia how dangerous it is to be the only abode of a speciality or a country. How dangerous this is to patients, even the patients will see that they are limited to demand their second opinion. That will have consequences in clinical security. Even with the transfer there will be consequences in patients. It supposes an even bigger economic investment because this change has to be made back in Cruces. He has no brains and no legs. In the gym, in the gym, the patients are reported in private. This is unacceptable; and this is not what you call strengthening the public health system in your repentance. And here we need a national strategy and not a chance in Spain for a second residence. No, we need to see how pathological we are in the diary, and we have to answer these pathologically, when we have become older and older populations, and from a strategic point of view we have to answer this. And not far...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u65	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u66	We need a nation strategy. And we must search for units of inheritance, search, preserve, and listen to the professionals who work in it, because they know more than we do. And, look, I've explained before why technically the charity service needs surgery near the Carubic, I've explained technically. I tried to inform you and explain...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u67	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u68	Because we've got more and more non-sensical techniques, but they're complicated, and they have to stay close to keeping the safety of the patient. And your planning here is so far away, and we don't really know what's behind it. Then, on the other hand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u70	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...parliamentary Berrojalbiz, the spokesman, I understand the paper, especially being vizcaine, Mrs Berrojalbiz. That walking through the streets of Amorebieta, Bilbao, defending the approach you have made in this rostrum has to be very complicated. But, look, I'm gonna pull out and I'm gonna show off his... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... The streets of Amorebieta, Bilbao, defending the approach you have made in this rostrum has to be very complicated. But, look, I'm going to pull out and I'm going to highlight your own contradictions, because when you said that the results are improved, I don't know if you wanted to say that the heart surgery service at Basurto Hospital isn't optimal right now, because it comes out here in the replica and tell the professionals who have them above, but tell them, tell them, tell them, and all the heads of service, to the 36 of 38 who have signed the letter that today publishes a medium of communication. Tell them you've got them upstairs. I don't know if you wanted to say... because of course, here we're not talking about having a service and we want to put two, no, here we're talking about having two services and a reference service that you want to dismantle, and things have to be called by their name. And little by little, all the decisions that you are having to do with Basurto, came to the conclusion that you want to dismantle the Hospital of Basurto based on I don't know what technical and scientific decisions you haven't made to date... They didn't come out to shine, and they didn't put them on the table, which is what they should have put. You say that the sum, where is the sum, Mrs Berrojalbiz, where is the sum, why are you going to do more heart surgery operations?, will there be more professionals?, where is the improvement?, where is the improvement when five years ago an investment of 15 million euros was made in Basurto Hospital? The improvement was at Basurto Hospital, the bet was Basurto Hospital. How can health managers make such a large investment, with six new operating rooms at the Hospital de Basurto, and at the age of five they want to miss them by closing the cardiac surgery service of the same hospital. That doesn't have a pass, Mrs. Berrojalbiz, Mr. Rico. Of course, because you tell us: it's that the cardiology service won't get any worse. But how will the cardiology service not get worse if you remove the cardiac surgery service, when there are pioneering procedures and techniques, when there are other procedures and techniques that are absolutely linked to the success of the cardiac surgery service in the hospital of Basurto, not to mention the risk of the transfer of certain issues to the hospital of Cruces, which is four kilometers away. Sure, you tell us the data. What's going on, that the data didn't exist four years ago, when you decided in a political decision too, that they were all in the picture, if I was there too, yes (?) They all went to the picture. It was so much in the picture that Mr. Aburto, today Mr. Aburto wonders what the reason for this decision is, why a (?) I imagine you'll be ashamed of yourself when you see certain photographs and certain decisions, and it's been a while, and those decisions that were made at a certain time, seem to want to throw themselves in the trash. It is that an investment of 15 million euros has been made, what are you going to do now, the same investment in Cruces? Tell us the reason to make five years ago an investment of that amount of money in Basurto to miss it now and have to make it on Cruces. Come on, that's a ten to health management and planning, that's a ten to health management and planning. But it is also that we make, as I said, an investment effort to then waste it at the age of four. And we make that effort to then do it again at Cruces after four years?, how does the offer not know (?, Mr. Rico? In this hospital there are many procedures and reference techniques that are going to stop doing, that are going to stop doing, why are they going to stop doing reference procedures and techniques?, why?, because it is wasting such an important question. Why is the realization of other procedures compromised?, why?, is that it doesn't make any sense. It's just that we were told..., it's that the lehendakari said, the Basque Government will continue to invest in human resources new infrastructures and technologies to serve health, we invest to offer Basque society the technology at the hand of a great professional team. That was four years ago. But if what you invested four years ago, you want to throw it into the trash, it is that with this decision, it is to waste and waste an investment that has been made with an important effort and with an important effort of all the Basques that we pay our taxes. But what planning is this? It's just that we already have two services. Because I agree that there has to be an effectiveness in the resources offered, and we can't all have an outpatient clinic in our neighborhood, not a hospital at the door of our house, but man, it's that there are two services, it's that there are two services. That's why I was asking them earlier, and I'm asking the counselor, and I'm asking her directly how I asked her the other day: what's behind this decision. It is a decision that is not justified from a technical and scientific point of view. They haven't given us any technical and scientific reasons. Put it on the table, don't give us the reason why a permanent mechanical heart is going to be implanted, when you know that the other day here sold a lie, which is a fallacy, because you know that that's a fallacy, and you wanted to sell smoke, and you wanted to divert attention, and things have to be said like that. You are dismantling Basurto, and there are the facts. She's had no autopsy, no pediatric oncology. He's going to run out of genetics lab, Osakidetza's oldest, but then you all claim to be a country. But how can one be boasting of a country, when you dismantle what works, the oldest and what is a reference, in this case, not only for the citizens of Bilbao, Bizkaia, but for the entire Autonomous Community of the Basque Country? But how can you speak after a country project? How can the Basque Nationalist Party speak to us of a country project, when what we have and works wants to take it away from us?, on what basis?, on what basis, counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u71	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u72	What planning do you make of the resources? Tell us, tell us, because we don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u73	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together Podemos-Toy won't speak. Vox-Misto mustn't speak. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u74	Thank you, President. To me these exercises of political sensationalism in which some engage seem terrible, really, really, I say that they seem absolutely terrible to me. I don't know sometimes if I come here to a show or I come to a... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...some of them seem terrible to me. I'm telling you, they seem absolutely terrible to me. I don't know, sometimes, if I come here to a role or come to a parliament. And that I think is nothing upbuilding. If we... I was saying, and I'm gonna try to refocus. I'll try, because sometimes it's very difficult. Here there is an exercise of sensationalism on the part of quite a few opposition groups, denying even what they have asked of us in writing on many occasions. And the best proof of the importance of a blow to what the objective data are is the development of this issue in this very Parliament. Today we come to a motion and a non-law proposal, and we are told by one of the proponents: "Where are the reports? Hey, but did you ask us?". He just didn't ask for them. Mrs Ubera, you who ask absolutely to the last page, to the last page of anything, have not asked them. Let us go to the database - I have done it, that exercise - and let us go to the database of this Parliament. There is only oral question, to go out in the media, interpellation, to go out in the media, non-law proposition and motion resulting from interpellation, to go out in the media. Where's the question? Where is the request for documented information? Where are the requests for reports? Because there are two members of the Basque Government who have not been asked for a single role. Not a single piece of paper. And here he came to posture. Well, I don't think it's what they pay us for. And, of course, when you come up here to say things contrary to what we have been discussing throughout the pandemic, Mrs Ubera. That you have said - and it is in writing, reflected in your initiatives - that we act according to what scientific societies say. And he says, "There's no objective reason." Hey, but I told you. What do scientific societies say about the minimum - because you know this - the minimum of operations per centre? 600. Or don't they say? Mrs. Garrido, this has been collected since 2011, and it did not govern the Socialist Party since 2011, in the indications of the Ministry of Health. I don't think so. But what are you talking about? What are you guys talking about? You care about a lie, a lie, the objective reasons for unifying or not unifying. You've taken it, you've wanted to take a picture. I was bringing you here. I, Mrs Garrido, am sometimes surprised, indeed, when there are some Members of this Parliament who are not in the picture, because they want to be in almost all of them. We're going to be in the construction of the solutions. In that of the solutions, not in the photo, which is what others are looking for. Well, if that's the role you decide to adopt, perfect. Let's get this straight. There are objective reasons: those collected by all scientific societies - Spanish, European and American - that quantify in 600 the minimum of major cardiac surgeries to be performed per center. And that's a fact that none of you have defeated because you can't, you can't. I have told you to the page, page 33 of the RECALCAR report this past year. They can't. Good. There are objective reasons. You don't ask them, it won't be the speech that broke it. And with regard to Basurto's future, I, look, I will not consent. And besides, I'm not going to consent to it as a Bilbao that I am. I'm not going to give it to you. The Basurto Hospital has to remain the reference hospital for the citizens of Bilbao. And, curiously, Mrs Garrido, Mrs Ubera, Mr Hernández, the only ones who say that in the texts to be voted on today are the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. I've made them a site. They haven't said what they're going to do. I will be very attentive to what they do, because I can assure you that I will be able to go with my head very high for my city, for Bilbao, defending the future of Basurto Hospital, and accepting that the Basque Government commits itself to providing resources. Absolutely necessary to remain that reference hospital of Bilbao's citizenship, and also in the investigation. What will your teammates and teammates in Bilbao be able to do? What are you guys gonna do today? Can you go with your head up high, too? Let us wait for the result of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u75	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm going to try to make some arguments from the quiet, without going into the show, because listening to you, Mrs. Garrido, I see you're doing show politics. We, on the other hand, do it to manage this country. Yes, to have an excellent health system, which we want to continue to drive, which we want to continue to drive this excellence. And that's what I said, Mrs. Garrido. Don't change my words, please. I won't let you. Because with this vision is where the Department of Health carries out this decision. With this vision of improvement, of excellence. Improve the development of cardiac surgery in Euskadi, improve efficiency by unifying resources, improve the care quality of health outcomes in our public network. Yeah, it's good, it's excellent, but we have to move on, we're not going to stay the way we are when we have options to improve. And that, moreover, will allow you to do such important things, as you said today, that you will allow in the future to perform surgeries that currently cannot be performed. That which you ask to study in your transaction is already planned, it is already studied, if today is a step towards achieving what you ask in your transaction. It's already been studied. They ask to study what is already studied. They ask to reconsider something that is already studied, analyzed, spoken in work teams. I remind you that it is also a project that has the support of most of its professionals. The cardiac surgeons of both centers are in favor of the development of this project. It is a decision based on recommendations from the scientific society. There is evidence of the relationship between the volume of activity and morbidity-mortality in procedures that require high specialization and experience... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... there is evidence of the relationship between activity volume and mortality morbidity in procedures that require high specialization and experience. And he's asked for references and I've given them to him, I don't know what reports he needs, if they're public reports the references I've given to the Ministry of Health. Too bad... Mrs. Ubera, Mrs. Garrido, reality doesn't want you to ruin a headline. But also, because you have made a lot of impact on listening, communicating, dialogue, working. It is a decision that starts from an internal work with many working meetings. Proiektu hau aurrera wasateko azterketak, analyticak, balorazioak egin dira; inplikatutako profesionalen, syndikatuen, Osasun Sailaren arteko tade bilerak egon dira, lantalde honen balorazio positiboa dagoelarik. A process that began in 2006. In July 2018, the first analysis report; in October of 19, project references and the Bizkaia cardiac surgery working group, analyzing the situation, justification and planning; from November 19 to February 2020, presentation and contrast of the project. Come on in, see if you think it's important what these people think. The cardiac surgery services of Basurto and Cruces, cardiology services, anesthesiology and critics of both centers, the addresses of the two OSI, the Department of Health, the Osakidetza Directorate, the sectoral table, the Advisory Council for Cardiovascular Diseases of Euskadi, and the Council of Health of Euskadi. Ladies and gentlemen, they've been working for some time for a sudden decision, so that they don't have to talk and talk, it's a work of many professionals and members, isn't it? As all this positive rating is good, it must be a decision to say here to define it with a cadence, isn't it? Ladies and gentlemen, time to make a sudden decision is about it; it's hard to do it. ) The professional and many members. As all this positive rating is good, it must be a face to say here that it is a cacada, a decision to define cacicadas On the basis of what you are coming to tell me here that you must reconsider the department this transfer. I have the opinion of all these, the scientific, technical reports, on the basis of what, on the basis of what. In any case, even if you know, worked and studied, out of pure ignorance and political opportunism, you ask for study and communication. Well, they're late, 'cause it's done. But I want to tell you that, in addition, there is a recent request from the Department of Health to re-examine this matter, to speak with the Basurto Cardiology Service, and that even if you know, you are waiting for a response. As with you, Mrs Ubera, waiting for a response, to see the Health Department hand you your proposals on the 30 million agreed for primary care. But, in this case, participatory analysis carried out and open communication channel. A project, moreover, that aims to empower the Public Health Network, Osakidetza, without any intention to lead patients to private resources, without any intention. Do not distort the debate. Our commitment, and you know it, and that of the Department of Health is to consolidate and strengthen public health services. And all our group expects is that behind all this there are no interests that we don't know about. We hope not to feel disappointed if we see that interests go beyond what (?) public money, to defend Osakidetza, because the impulse and strength that is complemented is an impulse and strength that is complemented with private public collaboration. But our efforts will always be to improve public health, without prejudice to the fact that this contributes to the private activity of the professionals of Osakidetza. And finally, a decision that doesn't hurt Basurto. I have already told you before, while you have your project for the future, well because you intend to empower Basurto in endowment and activity. Don't worry that investments won't hurt, they won't use storage rooms, Mrs Ubera. Also for the construction of the faculty linked to the Health Sciences, which will be key to the future of Basurto. And with this starting point and in this context, I am concerned that they are conveying a false idea that we are going to get worse, when what is sought is just the opposite, to improve these complex interventions. Or in the opposition it despises the evaluation of the cardiac surgery professionals of Basurto and Cruces. It stands against a project that creates value. Today, EH Bildu seems quite a drama that Basurto patients go four kilometers to Cruces, but wants Gipuzkoa patients to come to Bizkaia. Let us see, Mrs Ubera and Mrs Garrido, how you explain it to the Basques, how you explain to them that you are opposed to Euskadi continuing to take steps towards a healthcare of excellence, improving through the fusion of cardiac surgery services the results in the health of the population, greater survival and quality of life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u77	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u78	We, the Eucan patriots, are clear to us: There will be people in the middle of our beauty, and we will encourage actions to improve their quality of life, as we have done today. And, indeed, Mrs Garrido, actions, political decisions, but on a scientific medical technical basis, and I understand that this is not your style, but that it is to create mega-infrastructures with little content, such as the Isabel Zendal hospital. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. We've ended our discussion, and we'll vote for EH Collect... I'm sorry, I didn't ring the bell. [[Berber]] 1 and 3 together and 2 out. After the discussion, we'll have the vote. And we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together Podemos-Nodemus-Nozer-Fercial correction number one and three. The point. We can vote... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; supporters, 33; opponents, 41; Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u80	So 1 and 3 points have not been accepted. Next point number three... We'll vote for point number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u81	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the original text of Mrs Garrido Knör's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u82	Not accepted. We'll vote for the total misto-Vox correction next to that. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; in favour 1, 67; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u83	Not accepted. And finally, Eucabertians, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the opponents, 34; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-17.u84	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, we end the gathering. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-two.
