ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. I just want you to know that the fourth point has been abandoned for another reason. First point in theme list: "Provide the law made by the parliamentary team, and encourage social rent from the city. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, and we're just going to argue. Here, as it's the side and the opposite turn, on the side side side, besides the EH Union, who wants to be a part of it? Yeah. Well... Well, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u1	Yes, good morning, everyone. First of all, that EH collect has brought three proposals of law in this law, which is related to the House: the law proposed to limit the rents; the second was the law to buy the housing first, and to limit the operation of the investment funds, and even to bring it back... I mean, the law of keeping the housing decent. The first two laws, the laws to limit the rents, and to buy them first, were connected with the right of housing; and the third, well, with the right to be worthy of them also? And a fourth law, which we bring to the present day, which is the property of the house, a law to encourage social rent from the town, to buy what goes first by the direction of the law, because it has the same chief end: Growing public park, increasing social rental public park. In fact, we think we're standing in front of an emergency housing, there's a lot more demands than ever on the house-house list, so ask for a social rental housing. Right now 80% of all petitioners claim or demands a rental housing, which is now about 61,000 requests. And to offer them the housing park is what? Well, my own park is limited, but protected by the sum total of all the well-protected housing, about 25,000-26,000 units right now, with fun, municipal housing, and some private promoters. So that combines the housing from the entire park and the first housing park on the Combat... and the whole house of the first park, −% of the whole park, it doesn't come to 3. More or less, there are 90,000 units right now EAE, and 3% of them are social rents. Well, this worshiper likes to compare with Spain, and in that sense we're a little better, because in Spain there's about 2% of the −horn. But if we compare it with the average of Europe, where the data of the Spanish State is included, the average of all Europe is 9%; so there are three times more social rents in Europe than EAE. And compared to the local French State data, they don't go any further, they're on 14%. So we think we're far from this data, and that also shows that we're not only in an emergency housing but that this housing emergency doesn't respond in a proper way, does it? For since this lordship does not have enough social rent for these 61,000 petitioners, what does he do? There are, above all, two ways: one is the most alternate preparation and the second is the private public injury. As for the rentations, if we add the plugs and the town halls, it's worth 50,000 people helping to pay rents. But we must remember that all these helps are going directly to private hands, so we're overreacting the rent bubble through this preparation system. And, on the other hand, there's a private public collaboration. What is done through public or private consent is put into private promoters: 35 million euros have been given for the last 15 years. And that's a problem, because the deadline's over 10 years, they're asked to rent their flats for 15 years, and, well, when the time comes, the families are going out and there's trouble... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... They're wanted to rent their housing for 15 years, and when they get there, the families are going out, and there's trouble. We have these problems in some of the townships. So we believe that foreign policies must be carried forward, and, above all, the policy of the public park must be established. It must be said that the Housing Act took a very big step in 2015 in that sense. PSE and EHG encouraged and protected this law, and it must also be remembered that EAJ voted against it. And I think I like to notice this data because it seems so good to understand what's going on. What is happening is that it is not intended to develop this law, and that it is not intended to apply entirely to it. As I said, this law did important things, especially what it said in the field of rent, in the article − his 7.4, and also in the last regulation, −: "For five years after the consent of the law, that is to say, after June 2020, public administrations will not be able to make the housing for sale." That's what he said. So all the promotions that go on since June 2020 should be the ones that make public administrations. What's going on? Well, there's a trick. There's a path to keep selling the housing. That trick's not making fun of you, but it's a few public administrations, isn't it? The council. What do they do? Instead of selling these promotions, how the law doesn't let it, what they do is sell it to a private engine before building houses, and then that private engine makes those housing for sale. So we believe that no one is breaking the law directly, no one breaks the law, but there is an indirect violation of the law. We are facing some kind of fraud law. I'll give you an example of Gastine. At the same moment our emergency housing is no less than the EAE, perhaps a little bigger than the data in the building; Of these 60,000 approximants I have mentioned there are the 9,200 Gaste names. How many rents are there for them at the Gaste Name? It's about 6800, with social rents and joints in free market. And right now there's only 90 units on the offer. And these facts are not the EH Collectors, but those of the Gastei City Hospital, recently given. Klaro, I think it's quite clear that there's an emergency there, and that it should be especially strengthened by social rent policies, isn't it? But in front of that, what's the town council doing? He's selling out the compartments to build public protection houses. The Esanche 21, 21 LI, by the Ubanist municipal society, in the last year, 12, 15 months, has sold at least 650 units of public protection for the construction of the housing. Klaro, if the Housing Act had been applied, these housing would have to be rental, but they've sold it, they're selling these to private promoters. By which means the town has received 10 million euros, but we believe that if it had used another policy, and in other councils they do so, and they make the name of the Gaste now and then, we believe that the rent park would increase. This, of course, is not a Gastian problem, it's happening in a lot of municipalities. And we've brought this bill of law to answer this problem a little. In this proposal of law, the law to encourage social rent from the city's service is what we're saying. We've already got to influence the city's −al too, since they're planned, those housing, we have to make these lands −. What for? Let them be rentals. So what we propose is to change a couple of articles in the Law of the Earth of 2006. Why the Earthzon Law? Because this is where the city's art is regulated, and it is also to be considered that this law was made in 2006, which was a pretty advanced law, but we must see and consider what state we were in in 2006. Most of the people who had been posted on the Avenues wanted to buy a flat. The social situation was different. Then came the financial crisis, and, well, I think a lot of people have difficulty in getting a mortgage, and today, as I said − First, is asking for a rental housing. So we propose to change Article 16 of the Law of the Earth. What for? Apart from saying that in the planning of cities, which is the kind of housing that will be made in each part, the housing of the official protection, the government-states of the government, or the housing of the public protection, may be said to be in addition to what form of government they are to be sold; that is to say, in the sale, in the rent, in a mixed manner. That's about the public protection housing. We don't touch free housing. And on the other hand, we also propose that the article 80 should change. What for? There's a minimum amount to the housing of official protections that are scheduled to be a minimum amount for renting from the city. So, for social rent. Where did we put that sum? We put it in the middle. Another amount might have been set, a hundred per cent, but we think we've done an exercise here from realism and a little bit with the feet on the floor. And we've even wanted to let the town councils do a partele for sale if they're necessary at any moment, but always guarantee that half of all the public housing, at least, will be transferred to social rent. And lastly, we have given the law a transient regulation which has been worked out of realism. Because what we're saying is that it wouldn't apply... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... We have given the law a transient regulation which has been cultivated from realism. For what we say is, that it would not be applied by retrocivity, but by this law would apply itself to the designs which it began from zero. So we think we've got a pretty good balance on the point of pushing social rent and realism... Well, we've come to a point. And in that sense, we don't understand that I gave you a negative criteria. It has not been a surprise, but the principal reason that there is no justification or justification in this proposition. We don't understand it at all. For us, to have 610,000 demands for social rent instead of social rent, it is enough for us to make a proposition of this kind. And maybe it's the question we're asking when it would be justified. If 60,000 isn't enough justification, how much will it take? 80,000? 100,000? We have our doubts, we don't think it's the right answer. Especially seeing what's going on right now. In the Congress of Madrid as well as in the parliament of Navarre, they are discussing the fact that two laws are registered in order to make laws. And in it, both, the same size comes. It's the same size. In Congress at Madrid, in the bill registered by PSOE and Podemos, the 15th article is that half of the public protection housing units will be transferred to the rent. And in Navarre Parliament, where PSN and Later have registered a law project, the first section of the second article is that it will go to the rent by 30% of all the public protection housing. Hence it is true that the numbers can be different. The final result is specifically different, because more houses in the EAE are reserved, so that half here or in Madrid is not the same as the last result − here would be taller. But the measure is exactly the same. And we don't understand how PSOE can be fostering this measure, fostering that PSN measure, and that PSE has no justification here. We don't understand. I think if you're going to give me some justification here, I'm afraid that's what's going to happen. Because it's especially obvious that he doesn't want to develop the Housing Act and he doesn't want the Housing Act to be applied. For our part, we'll continue to bring in these kind of initiative. We think we're making this very clear. It's the way to increase the public housing park, strengthen the social rent. And this kind of constructive initiative, we'll continue to bring in the builders because we really have an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u2	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u3	Yes, good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning. Well, we're on our side, on our side, on the terms proposed by EH Collect, and we're gonna vote side by side. And, to be honest, the members of Ferdinand de Betoulo are now located... he fixed the subject very well. And so too is the soul and point of view of this subject. On the way home, and it's said and I'll repeat a lot of things that are offering or asking for social rent... They're working now, 71,000 people. But at the same time, the rent park and the social rental park we have is very rare. The Housing Act 2015 has already been mentioned, and in addition to the bill itself, and also in the Government's unfavourable approach, with 100 per cent of government-driven housing policies for rent. And there is also talk of that law that was a pioneer, of the Law of Soil, and the limitations that that same law establishes. And it has also been explained the problem that arises when the ground reserves... because the destinations for which it is carried out, because they are not intended as a priority for public promotion, nor are they distinguished between sale and rent. And in the alguiler, the Housing Act does. But we have that dysfunction between the Housing Act and the Soil Act, which I think is a good thing, this bill could be a good starting point for debate in this Parliament. We and we, in the case of admission or admission to proceedings, doubt it, but if it is admitted to proceedings we also had our amendments and some measures that might be different, but in any case we were in favour of the agreement. But well, also to save the inconsistencies and be able to make an effective public policy in Euskadi. And he also explained Fernandez de Betou, and the housing is included in their legal proposal, the State Housing Act. This kind of mechanism is planned. It's true, at other percentages. There's so much... Most of the time, we're much more advanced. But if this housing law is checked, we'll probably be short here. Not in the percentage, but in the direction. And going to the government's discretion, the government says that the... without establishing any percentage to support his argumentation, that the proposed law is not sufficiently motivated, and that he does not have... does not respond to a reasonableness judgment. That sounds like mantras to me... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ...that the bill is not sufficiently motivated, and that it does not have... does not respond to a reasonableness judgment. To me that sounds like mantras, mantras of a neoliberal doctrine in the conduct of the economy and public policy, that if we contrast them with the accredited need of housing in Euskadi they fall by their own weight. More than 61,000 people are now demanding social rental housing in Etxebide, an age, a 30.2-year emancipation rate in Euskadi. Rent prices in the capitals, in Bilbao and in Donosti, exceed 1,000 euros, and in Vitoria slowly approaching, unfortunately. The problems we also have with the mechanisms that were managed during the 1990s and early 2000s in Euskadi to promote protected housing, as we have recently seen in Renteria and how we will see in other promotions if preventive mechanisms are not activated by the Government. If the need for housing in Euskadi is not accredited, I do not know what need is accredited in Euskadi, ladies and gentlemen of the Government. Thus, beyond those neoliberal mantras that have been cited by the Government in that view, he could have cited article 128.1 of the Constitution, which states that all wealth must be subordinated to the general interest and makes no reference to that article. They seem to be forgetting that article. Por dot, decía que a ser breve. We thought it best to discuss this bill. If we tried our corrections or tried the tramite, it won't be tested, but probably we'll present more proposals around it. And I'm sure as with most things at some point, even the Social Party and the Party... The National Party and Social Party are going to give us the reason and make these proposals work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u4	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Anybody want to participate in the opposite round? On the other side? No? That's the explanation of the vote. [[Pause]] If the discussion is over, we'll vote about whether the law proposition is considered or not. He can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainments, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u5	So the bill was ignored. Then we'll vote for it. Vox? Mist? He mustn't speak. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs. Larre, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u6	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Look, we have voted against the bill that Bildu makes, because for us it clearly attacks three pillars that we cannot support. It focuses on market freedom, private property and municipal autonomy. Against market freedom, because you intend to force the property to do... To force in the use of housing that is built when what has to be done by the administrations is to propitiate the appropriate situation for the private to build for social rent giving a climate, especially because it puts at risk the financial viability of the construction projects. It is against private property, because also in this law what comes to say is that instead of encouraging private people to put their homes on the social rental market, what they do is to force them. We'll never agree to this. And it attacks municipal autonomy, because it gives the feeling that what it wants to force this proposal of law is for the municipalities, it forces them to adopt a series of policies, that they have their autonomy to decide how they want to invest in public housing. And how do you do that? For some will want to sell some land to build public housing, each within its autonomy, within the municipal autonomy that the municipalities have will be able to decide how it can do this function. I don't think from here you have to force yourself from any... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... within their autonomy, within the municipal autonomy that the municipalities have, you can decide how you can do this function. I do not think that from here we have to force in any way the municipal authority, the municipalities, to build social housing, or to make or adopt a series of farms or a series of land as we have decided. That's what municipal autonomy is for. In the municipalities where you govern, you will surely be able to do this, but each one will be able to do so in the manner you deem appropriate and by applying the policies you deem appropriate. And these are the three reasons why we voted against, because there are different ways to do the same, but on another path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. San José, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u8	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. President, the Vence Prefector, the Chiefs, the congressmen, all good days. It is the laws that make people prosper, earn rights, live more dignifiedly. There is nothing more to see than the labour reform and the May data on unemployment, which have fallen by more than 2,200 people. But the proposal for a law that Euskal Herria Bildu brings us here today and that has largely been rejected, far from extending rights, restricts private property rights and business rights or the exercise of economic activities. The Socialists have voted against this proposal for a law, for its consideration, and the arguments we are going to make are not going to differ from those made by the Government in expressing its unfavorable view. First, there is already a legal regulation more than sufficient for public administrations with housing competences to be able and should allocate all available resources, including those acquired because of urban action to housing policies and the fulfilment of the mandate of the Basque Housing Law, which is the destination for social rent. The core of the issue is the incorporation into existing regulations of the provision that urbanly qualified land for the construction of public protective housing is subject to and linked to a mode of acquisition and tenure. It does not determine the proposal of law whether it is social rent or not, which would develop, according to the proposal, through urban planning. Among the proposed additions is, on the one hand, the incorporation of a new paragraph in article 16 of the Soil and Urbanism Act, so that the detailed planning - special plan, partial plan - determines the system of acquisition or possession of the protected housing resulting from: sale, rental, mixed or other, according to the proposal. In the opinion of the Basque Government and the Basque Socialists, this proposal is virtually unviable by covering urban areas and complete urbanisation sectors, even seeking to link private properties to different transmission regimes without due justification and without much probability exceeding the canon judgement of constitutionally enforceable reasonableness. We understand that the mobilization of private ownership housing towards the sheltered rent must revolve around its incentive through financial and regulatory mechanisms that make it viable, in line with the various measures of the current Housing Master Plan 2021-2023. On the other hand, a new paragraph is added to article 80 of the Soil and Urbanism Act so that general planning will qualify, at least, 50% of the sheltered residential building capacity under rental conditions in unconsolidated urban soils and urban land sectors in both residential cases. The preliminary draft law on the right to housing, currently under way in the State Administration, provides for the same percentage of 50 per cent, but on reservations that are certainly less than 30 and 10 per cent than ours, which are 75 and 40, but incorporating exceptions for economic and social circumstances that justify it. The view of the Basque Government and the Socialists, in this case, with regard to this proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, is that as far as private property is concerned, it has not been duly justified and would therefore not exceed the reasonableness judgment required of it, and could also generate a situation of financial inviolability of the proceedings. On the other hand, if the planning to achieve the setting of this standard did not fine-tuned financially, there might well be situations of singularly compensable linkage, in accordance with articles 48 and concordant with the Royal Legislative Decree on Soil and Urban Rehabilitation. Such determinations which represent a limitation to the right of ownership, linking their holders to a mode of regime or of acquisition and possession of rent, are constitutionally acceptable only when they do not exceed the fee of fair balance, reasonableness or adequacy of the measures to the objective pursued and to respect the essential content of both rights. In any event, the fee for reasonableness must be based on respect for the essential content of both the right of ownership and the right of enterprise or the exercise of economic activities. And I end up like I started. The Basque Socialists are not going to find us in the propositions of laws that extend the rights of citizens, not in those that restrict them for free. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u9	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mrs. Berisher, Eubertarian, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Our vote has been opposed to taking this bill under consideration. The domestic policy, starting from the city, says that the making of these articles, is to make some alterations or alterations in the two articles in the Eucharistic soil. First of all, Article 16, specifying a market-place regime. And we believe this proposal is not to be met with because private property is intended to be connected with the regimes of different transmissions, and we believe that there is no justification for the violation of a right or a right to preserve it. We think we have to take care of a balance there and there's no reason for it here. We think private housing is rental... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... We believe that there's a balance to be observed, and that there's no reason for it here. We believe that private housing is to lead other ways to hire, the housing guide has many such means, and we believe that they are more suitable at the present moment to answer that complaint. 81. The change of the article, or the addition of it, is proposed to be added to it; We believe that the standards that are raised on our soil are so high that it is a progressist, or that the laws of Spain which are so understood are much higher than those who receive them, and that it is not the same whether to go to the rent of the 50th of those thirty-Final buildings, or to go to the same course as 75. And we believe it must also be considered, that when laws are made, when those laws are proved, or directed to the management, it is possible to be able to do this operation. And I doubt, at least, from my experience, whether the setting of these limits in such a standard should not be the contrary result of what is sought at a moment, because it would be very bold for any one to enter into such an operation in his enterprise. And I believe, when we act or manage politics, that it is a very important thing to be able to do. The law of 2015 already requires an obligation to the public institutions; That every apartment that is fostered must be a rental from public institutions. It is also received as a reason in this proposition, and so has Mr. Fernandez de Betoño in his speech: that there may be a violation of laws on the side of the townships when they sell some soil to prevent those public housing from being built. We believe that this is very much to be said, but even in this case, we ought to see why it is, and why those municipal councils use the income from it. And I also believe that all this is public policy. We make a clear bet for the rent, but we think it must be done by other means, that this policy is a thing to be observed by us, and that balance, as we have said before, is not? The right of private property is also present, the right of the house is there, and we believe that in the making of politics, or in managing, the balance of all rights must also be observed. And, well, for all these reasons, our vote was contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. When we reach this point, I interrupt a little plonee, because the next point is negotiating, about ten minutes, fifteen. The meeting stopped at eight o'clock in the morning. The meeting began again at ten-thirty in the morning. [[Start of tape 14]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u12	Good noon again, and we'll start the Plenumus.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u13	Well, eskerrik asko president andrea. Lehendabizi, barkamena eskatu, batha bueno, azkenean itxaropena you must have duel, eta akordio zabala lortu dugu Legebiltzarrean, eta bueno, you must have inportanteena, inportante bat, eta bueno, lehendabizi agurtu nahi dut, ez dakit oraindik igo direen goian daude gure inbituak, éta henera, hauek beraiekin egon gara ora art. Agurtu nahi dut Susana, Alejandra, Idoia, Aitziber and Ana. I want to thank you, well, how you have also been involved in bringing us closer to the reality of the disorders of food behavior, TCA, their courage, their courage, their ongoing struggle. This Parliament, this group, we have put forward an inquiry to the Councilwoman on eating disorders, and we have tabled a motion. We understood that there were many shortcomings in the functioning of the care, of the resources, rather, that lend themselves to people who suffer from a disorder of food conduct, and that there was room for improvement, and that I would also like to note that it was the will of the Government itself, and that, in some way, this was reflected in the Councilwoman's own words in that reply. Therefore, I would also like to thank, since the department has been behind, the department, Councilwoman Sagardui, and also all the spokespersons with whom we have negotiated over the last few days, even today morning, Ekain, Itxaso and Mary, and the effort made. I mean, firstly, as the patient has mentioned, that these Trastorians are not a caprice, and that the suffering they endure is very great. Besides, people with these tracts have a physical influence, and even an influence on the mental area. As I said, suffering a disorder of eating behavior is not a whim, it is much suffering that surrounds these people and their families. I have had the opportunity to know this reality for a long time, even before I entered politics, but since I entered politics, I have had the privilege – and I will say so – of accompanying ACABE and having learned a lot from the association that helps these people. As we all know, these behaviors, eating disorders, can trigger major physical diseases, which in extreme cases can even lead to malnutrition and suicide. The impact on mental health is brutal, with depression, suicidal ideas, continued sadness, also leading to serious mental disorders, feeling guilty. As also expressed and pointed out here by the counselor, there has been a program since 1986, and there is a care circuit that starts when a patient who suspects that he or she has a eating disorder, or who may suspect that something is happening to him or her, comes to the primary care service, which leads him or her to the mental health network. Depending on the severity, it remains in the mental health network or goes to external consultations, and in the most serious cases there is one (?) unit of need of hospital admission in the Psychiatry services themselves, but it must be said that there is no specific unit of Osakidetza, as there is in other autonomous communities. And that income also occurs when the body mass index is lower than... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... there are in other autonomous communities. And that income also occurs when the body mass index is less than 18. It must be remembered that many people come to enter – like the testimonies that we have all heard – into a limit situation, with even very low potassium and sodium levels and on the threshold of almost death. I want, above all, to make it clear and, above all, I also want to bring the data up here. It's danden zifrak you go adriezten duct the truth, honek you deserve the duel ikuspegi zehatz beat eta danden gabeziak hobetzea. Disorders have increased by 39.6% since the beginning of the pandemic. In the year 2019 we talked about 5,932 cases and in the year 2021 of 8,557. And consultations over these two years have increased by 72%. Revenues in 2020 as compared to 19 are also increased in 263 cases and from 2021 to 2020 in 359 cases. Apart from the specific TCA disorder program, there are also the different mental health strategies. And the other day an initiative was adopted in this Parliament in which food conduct disorders will also have a specific place. But, as I said, and it was the subject of the inquiry that I made to the counselor two weeks ago in this plenary session, many shortcomings in the treatment of these people have been detected. Above all, taking into account also the conclusions of the study carried out by a specific monographic working group and the conclusions of the study, which I believe must be a starting point. It was found that eating disorders cause distortions in hospitalization units due to several circumstances. Hospitalization units are psychiatric units since there is no specific unit. Because stays are prolonged, sometimes chronic. Different specialties are involved in the management of pathology. And there are problems associated with the overload of nursing staff, because no one escapes that these people need continued care, supervision and support. He spoke of the inadequacy of nursing staff, but also of other specialists, such as specialists in psychiatry, psychology, endocrines, nutritionists. And then I believe that something very concrete and that special emphasis must be placed on all the problems arising from chronicity, gravity and complexity, complex cases, which are summarized in frequent income, in income... systematic re-entry, and which in many cases require specific medical support, with constant relapses, and cases that clearly go beyond the current therapeutic resources. Therefore, the objective of this initiative is to find that there is room for improvement, that appropriate, necessary, effective treatments must be given, and that now the treatments being given by Osakidetza do not meet this objective. And also highlight the need to give specific treatment to people suffering from ASD. And, above all, also take into account the need to respond to those cases that move to other autonomous communities where there are specialized units of TCA. And if there is no specific unit, as is the case, right now in Osakidetza, we understand that these people have to be paid for the displacements either to other autonomous communities where there are specific units in the public or even in the private sphere, because these people want to be cured, what they want is to be treated and what they want is to end the nightmare they suffer. So much so the phenomenon... of the data, which, as I said, speak for themselves, that within ITA has been created, a special day hospital unit has been set up in food disorders. And if in 2021 they started with a psychologist, today is the day that there is already a team of people with different specialists. Therefore, the need is there, and from the private sphere it has also been understood that it has to be responded to. That is to say, we are in favour of private public collaboration, but we believe that Osakidetza also needs to do a reflection and walk towards a greater specialization of the resources that people who suffer from eating disorders demand. In that regard, we called for a specialized food conduct disorder unit on our initiative and that, as long as such a unit is not created, the costs of travel, income and other needs of these people to obtain such recovery therapy from the disorder they suffer, as I have just said, will be met. On the other hand, we believe it is important to complete the treatment given in the therapeutic dining rooms. In the 2016 report itself, deficiencies are detected and found in these therapeutic eaters. And it is pointed out that a broader treatment, where we have to work, is also said here, not only with an endocrine but also with a nutritionist and that we have to provide therapies and workshops to address the problems these people present. A therapeutic dining room is not only to give a meal, that is, there has to be an accompaniment of that person also in different areas, with workshops and talks and a attention also, as I said, personalized. On the other hand, there are deficiencies currently also detected between the primary care and mental health coordination of Osakidetza. And it is also desirable to strengthen everything that has to do with the training of professionals to give better attention to these people. We also see that there is a shortage of professionals, especially in psychiatry and psychology. And, therefore, a sufficient number of these professionals must also be guaranteed to ensure the complete recovery of these people. We were talking about also, to the extent... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... professionals to ensure the complete recovery of these people. We were also talking about, as far as possible, studying a 24-hour phone call. I know the functioning of ACABE, the rest of associations from the other two territories, and, well... I'm referring to ending because I also have a more personalized deal with Ana and Susana, especially Susana for many years, and I know that they're overwhelmed, and I know that the psychologist doesn't have time to attend to all the consultations these people are doing at any time of the day. Therefore, it would also be desirable for Osakidetza to consider responding to these people when they can sue. Finally, we also consider it important to stress the issue of prevention; that is to say, we must establish all kinds of possibilities in the field of prevention. Measures to prevent, of course, these possible eating disorders in the educational sphere; they also play an important role in the media. We also believe that everything that surrounds eating disorders needs to be made more visible, and that we need to empathize more with these people, their reality and their families. I, well, apologized to your ladies and gentlemen: I know that sometimes we get very heavy, and I especially, asking for breaks. And I also thank the President and the Bureau for granting this broad recess. But in the end it has been possible and fruitful, in the sense that we have reached an agreement. I think it is important, from this agreement, that an evaluation will be carried out in the end. An evaluation, but starting from reality as we have on the table. That is to say, from the reality of the data that tells us that this phenomenon is growing, that the resources and services currently provided in Osakidetza need to be improved, and that we need to move towards specific resources and even that specialized unit. We therefore believe that it is important that this assessment be carried out, which has a horizon. That assessment, as I say, must have a starting point, a diagnosis that already exists, conclusions with concrete actions within a specific time frame, and then accompanied by a budget and sufficient financial appropriations to put them in place. On the other hand, we have also considered it important and have introduced the creation of a monographic group. A monographic group on disorders of food behaviour in which the agents involved and users are involved, that is, that they participate at all times in the conduct of this study, in their conclusions, and that, obviously, they can also be listened to their requests because for that they participate. And, on the other hand, that they are believed, appropriate, reinforce the specific resources and programmes already existing, which I believe here we all agree; some we will say more clearly, others not so much. I understand that the groups supporting the Government here will be more careful, but it is clear that there are shortcomings, that this has to be turned around, and I believe that with this agreement, in some way, it is recognized that changes in the treatment and care given to people suffering from eating disorders must be made. Finally, it also seems to us important - and I stress - that if it is necessary for these people to have to travel as has happened in some cases to other autonomous communities because there is no specialized unit of disorders of food conduct in Euskadi, they will be covered by the costs of travel, care and income, whether it is a specialized unit from an autonomous community to a public service, as well as from the private sector. It is about these people being cured, given proper treatment, and, of course, as soon as possible, they can continue with their lives and with the best possible quality of life. In short, well, satisfaction. I believe that we are also going to follow up and we are going to be very demanding with the implementation of this agreement, and above all with the response to the needs that today are not covered by people who suffer from eating disorders. Today it is a starting point, a starting point, but we have to keep moving forward because, in the end, we also have patients who have to pay attention to them. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u14	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u15	Thank you, Chief. And good morning to all. But especially to the members of ACABA, Aziber, and Alejadra, the rest of the brethren, good and welcome. And above all, thank you for the last week, all the work and effort you've worked for days and minutes, for gathering with us and doing this way together. My heart, thank you. Because today, if we're talking about mental health again, and it's in the middle of our political enterprise, and today the food is on the table that we give our attention to disorders, that's your push, your work, your commitment, and you've shaken up the media and political parties. And if there's any merit today, it's yours. So, thank you, because if we talk about mental health today, if we talk about the model of care for people with eating disorders today, it is because of your impulse and effort, for your experiences and for having had the courage to share them, because you have given voice to many people and many families. And that we have to value, and all the work you do and have been doing all these years since ACABE. And well, as far as I'm concerned, thank you also for being willing to make a way with us. From Euskal Herria Bildu we believe in doing politics by the hand of citizens and by the hand of collectives and social actors, and you have all my commitment to continue working. I have told you many times, but I believe in it: today nothing begins or ends, this is a background race, and we will continue to work. But, alas, if we are now discussing the perturbations of habit, it is because circumstances and reality are crude. We're talking about the TCA for the last few months because the case has been fought hard, cases have multiplied since the pandemia... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... We're talking about the TCA for the last few months, because the case has been seriously updone, the cases have multiplied since the pandema. I'm not going to repeat the data again because Laura Garrido threw them two weeks ago and told them about it today. But, well, consultations, hospitalizations have gone up at all ages, but especially in children, teenagers, and young men, and in very serious cases. And we are also here because we have received severe testimony, and that behind these experiences there are great degrees of suffering, of patients, of their relations, families, and their touching surroundings. And that's not a coincidence. I'm sorry, I'm asking...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u17	I was saying that these experiences are not a coincidence. And in this sense, Pandemia has brought many things to the desktop, and has revealed many privations. And in the present instance, that a great number of persons, or at least an important number, who have the disorders of their manner of nourishment, do not find the care they require in our public health, in the company of Osa. At the moment, there is no specific unit in Euskadi to care for people with ASD. It does not exist, there is no high intensity, with a possibility of medium-long stay, with a multidisciplinary approach, with a technical therapeutic team prepared and specialized. And this is causing serious, very serious consequences. Patients who do not receive care and are discharged without further treatment, who are left alone and without options. Patients who, although receiving care in different devices, assure us that they do not receive that specific care and therapy enough to overcome ASD, and that they have to supplement treatment through associative tissue. Also patients who are derived to specific units in other autonomous communities, which means for families; you can imagine, right? Kilometers and kilometers, economic spending on accommodation, on diets, being away from home, from work, from classes, from day to day, from the social environment. And then there are also patients who are not being derived because it is understood that they already receive the treatments they need, but that relapse after relapse are forced to adopt or by registering in another community or by going to private clinics at prohibitive and deorbited prices. And in this I mean - and I want to be very clear - health is a right, and it cannot be subject to having or not having money. And be careful with this, be careful because when talking about not giving the attention that is necessary from the public and the demand is high, as is happening, there are always those who see the opportunity of that need doing business, and profiting from the mental health of the citizenry. And there's a ghost knocking at the door. Here are plans already to open a private center for TCA. Why? Because we have a hell of a party, and we're at Osar because we have a hole in this. Let's start now because the health of the people can't be left in private hands. And also a message to transcend a little bit of this House, for those who are falling over and lobbying, because it is not ethical to stop paying attention from the public to then attend in private; and to discharge in Osakidetza and then want to consult in private. Okay? It'll be legal and everything you want, but ethical isn't. And, well, going back a little bit to the subject, it's true that this doesn't happen in all cases. It is true that there has been a TCA programme in Osakidetza for many years. It is true that there are people with TCA who do find a solution in the itineraries and programs proposed by Osakidetza, but not all of us are cut by the same pattern, not all of us have the same needs. And we are not talking about a few cases, this reality is much more crude; there are many people and families who, due to the lack of a service and a specialized unit at the moment, have to travel to Barcelona, Madrid, Albacete and Ciudad Real. Eta hori ezin da izan. What we need right now is a jump, we need a jump in the mental health, and in this particular case we need to jump around our attention to the complications of feeding. On this road today we have a deal, and there have been great attempts to make the deal as good as possible. I think we've been working honestly for the last few days and hours, and that's what we have to put into value. And we made this deal a few minimum, I don't think we're here. But, well, I'm afraid that's a step forward, and we're supposed to give it to him, right? And this has also given us a chance to put all of us to the desktop, and also our agents to lay down their own, and now they are known, and they are acquainted with the departments. And we shall see how far we are on the road from now on, what this evaluation gives us, what results it gives us. And we're going to be independent, we're going to be very independent. In this sense, and in order to end, I am willing to make it clear to me, which of us should be the least possible elements in the work from now on. I think it is very important that the attentions of different intensity should be possible; tall, medium and small. And it's all very well. That is to say, it is possible to make an ingression in a specific unit, a long-range, and then a chain of means for the next service; and that it is really a course. It'll be the day hospital, the centre, therapeutic dining room that we're working on. But working in co-ordinately and contacting them. "La que no puede ser que que tengo el alta este servicio porque si no te te atenten en el tenente; Maybe empeoras y titenes que volver al recurso anterior, pero como te alido de ese circuito, addo la plaza queías." No. Esto no puede seguir funcindo así because patients don't do them any favors. And in all this process, families are indispensable. The affected environments are indispensable. But they're indispensable in the treatments because they're very important in the recovery process and you have to work with families. They feel very lost and very guilty, and I don't have to, they don't have to. And in any case, with either family or patients, guilt must be put aside: they are not guilty of anything. They have a disease and they're sick. And to stop eating, or to give in to someone else... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... It's time to put aside the guilt. They're not guilty of anything. They have a disease, and they are ill, and either to abstain from eating or to abstain from eating, and to have other conducts is not capricious, but to be diseased. Nor ought we to attend to the care of them, not only to make use of them, but to look after what is below them. Yeah? Hay que al trasfndo, porque ess conductas discrutivas en la alimention vien de un maestar subyactente y la terapiae que es al fanta de esto. And I'm going to finish with this −, the most extraordinary work to do in the prevention and promotion of mental health, in education, in industry, in work, in communications with the −batura in our domains against the stigma. And all this will be the new strategy of Euskata's mental health. It'll be a clan. There's a big challenge ahead of us, and they're gonna be huge. In that sense, we'll be working on it every day. And you have all our commitment to continue working through your hands. And what I said before, it doesn't end today. "Hoy no empiezan y acavan nada y seguiremos laboro." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u18	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Today we are talking about a theme that is essential to my team: the means by which the nutritiousness and our health system ought to oppose it. As you know, several researchs have proved that the pandemics have been affected by the mental health of the people. And it is that the data collected by different surveys show us clear increases in anxiety-depressive disorders and, in addition, complications associated with pre-pandemic mental disorders, such as eating behavior disorders. All of this leads us to believe that we were right when at the beginning of this legislature we raised the need to rethink and update the tools we have to provide help in our mental health system. It's true we don't start from scratch. Mrs Garrido herself said this in the question of which this motion is a consequence. He said the department isn't looking anywhere else. And we agree, but we also agree with another statement he made, and that there is room for improvement. And that's what we're in. In the same inquiry, Councilwoman Sagardui made a tour of the different mental health strategies that we have had over time, and also of existing resources. In Euskadi we have resources aimed at dealing with the disorders of food behaviour, but, with this, we Socialists are clear that we need to propose a review, adaptation and improvement of these, and also the creation of new resources, in the light of the increase in complications associated with pre-pandemic pathologies. And the tool to do so is clear: through the monographic group of disorders of food behavior that has already been created, and include these results and recommendations in the new Mental Health Strategy for Euskadi. In this Parliament and from this very rostrum, we already made it clear in October 2021. A new mental health strategy is needed. And, of course, we socialists have not changed our minds; it is something we are committed to, that we have collected in our electoral program and that we have transferred to the government's own agreement; and it is something that socialists are also pushing in the Spanish government, through the new mental health strategy and the mental health action plan, including the TCAs. And that is our commitment, just as I was able to first hand move the people affected by these disorders after meeting with them on 19 May. In fact, if you remember, on the same day we were able to reach a very important agreement in this House on this new mental health strategy. An agreement which was supported by an overwhelming majority in this House, with the affirmative vote of 67 Members of Parliament of 75 and the abstention of a single group, but without any vote against. And at the first point in this agreement, we urged the Basque Government to design as soon as possible the new mental health strategy in Euskadi, led by the Mental Health Advisory Council, but open to receiving and appreciating the contributions of professionals, social agents and users. And you will see that we have not lost a single minute, because, just as Mrs. Garrido's inquiry into the issue, the adviser has already announced the creation of this monographic group on eating disorders. I think that's the way. In fact, it is the road that this Parliament set out in an overwhelming majority just two weeks ago. And, if I may, it is not that we should follow it simply by consistency, but that it is also the most logical and the most serious. Eta horregatik, Osasun Sailari eskatzen diogileekin beat Aztertu tena la elikadura nahasmenduek Euskadin duten eragina age of time aurre Egypt ditugun baliabideak. Osasun mentalko strategy berrian sartu behar ditugu zerbitzuak, preszioak eta baliabideak. But today, as was said, we are taking one more step, and also a very important step, and we are doing so with the help of users and associations and the rest of the groups in this House. And I want to thank ACABE, Ane and Susana, also Aitziber and Alejandra with whom I was meeting just two weeks ago, for moving your needs and for making us reflect on issues that for a long time, as we have been talking about now, have been hidden and that cannot be hidden for another minute, and that cannot have the resources that are necessary to deal with them. I would also like to thank the proposer of the initiative, Laura Garrido - whose signature is for me in this compromise amendment - EH Bildu, Maria Garde, and also Nerea Kortajarena, for the contributions that have been made. And of course, my partner from groups that we support the government, Itxaso Berrojalbiz. I believe that this call for the plenary to stop trying to reach an agreement has been an exercise that has led us almost to the cliff, but that has been very interesting and that we have achieved it. And I think that when you can give yourself opportunities like this, it's worth it to postpone whatever it takes to try... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... that we've done it. And I believe that when opportunities like these can be given, it is worth postponing what it takes to try to go hand in hand together on issues that are of real urgency and of real necessity for our country. In the agreement we have put forward, there are three things I want to highlight. The first is that we open up to the participation of agents and users this monographic group created for eating disorders. I think it's a very important step. We make that group evaluate before the end of 2022 - setting a date is always also important - the situation and resources. And that the new mental health strategy should include the necessary benefits, services and resources. And they are also believed, fit and strengthen those who are already, but those specific resources that are necessary are created according to that analysis. And also the evaluation and progress within the TCA program in care proposals for those cases that require longer hospital stays. I think the effort was worth it. In addition, they will allow me to request the affirmative vote for the other groups which, because they have not tabled an amendment, cannot be in the agreement, but I would like to request that they vote in the affirmative, and that this agreement be an agreement put forward by the unanimity of this House. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u20	Thank you, Mr. Rico. You've got the word, Mrs. Berrojalbuz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Welcome to the meeting today, the organizations, the ACABEri, the Idion, the Aziber, Susana, Alejadra, and Anari, because you study, study, and assist in this way; so that welcome and thank you for today's exportation. As I have said today, −, discussing closely with the patients who are involved in the confusion of the food-players, but to know what the situation is, what confusion consists in, what resources are in the health department, and what means are important to know what they are to encourage the Government to do. And that's the basis of today's agreement. What then, as has been said, is the confusion of the process of nourishment? Well, the International Relations of Health Organization, under the title of nutritious fritters, collects two important syndromes: anorexia nerves and Bulimia nerves. And from the source of the nutrient confusion, there are biological factors, social and psychotic. Among them, there is a remarkable place for the quarrels of the teenagers about being a woman, and with them the inconveniences which they impose upon their personal autonomy. Now... Well, there is indeed - and we all know - a very fine and dangerous line, which also separates aesthetics, beauty or body worship from a mental illness, with very serious consequences for the physical and emotional health of those who suffer from it and also for their environment, for their families. And that is one of the issues that we have also wanted to reflect in the agreement. Because the main axis is the people, the ones who have the disorders, but also their environment, their family, their friendships are important for that physical and emotional health for those who appear. For the most part, this line is passed on in adolescence, but the data warns us that every time the disorders are or are started at an earlier age. In addition, nine out of ten remain women. Disorders that sometimes end up in a hospital if there is no early detection. Another key that this Department, Osakidetza, places a lot of emphasis on, because early detection is one of the keys. The reality is that although origin can be multifactorial, culture influences; patterns and patterns mark our image, our body; beauty and thinness become our identity card, and for many of these people they also become tragedy. And in that change of cultural values is in part the solution. And others we also find in the health care system, education and also in the family. And for that we are here today, to talk about the health system, its treatment and to be able to find a solution: what we have, what we do and where we want to go. Therefore, what is the treatment that is applied in APTs in Osakidetza? In Osakidetza, in general, APTs can benefit from mixed treatment, through surveillance and medical care, nutritional advice, psychiatric evaluation, medication and/or psychotherapy. The therapist who has taken care of the case will be the one who determines the specific needs for intervention according to the diagnosis and intensity of the symptoms. We also have medical surveillance, which helps to correct and prevent any of the potential dangers arising from the eating disorder, such as loss of bone density or heart rhythm disorders. Nutritional counselling, another of the keys that helps to develop a reasonable and tolerable diet plan for the sick person, facilitating their longer-term follow-up. Psychiatric evaluation and psychotherapy, which offer strategies aimed at the recognition and modification of possible inappropriate behaviors associated, also identifying potential agents that generate stress and traumatic events that may have contributed to the development of the disorder. And finally, some types of medication that can help the readjustment of brain biochemistry. A treatment, therefore, from our point of view, complete, with resources from the specialized consultation of psychologists and psychiatrists, outpatient programs, therapeutic eaters, hospitalization. All this is accompanied by early treatment, the provision of financial and personnel resources. And without forgetting - because it is never mentioned - the Osakidetza Health Council, available 24 hours a day 365 days a year. A programme, therefore, complete, with resources and a clear bet on the part of the Basque Government. And I say a clear bet, and that Osakidetza is there, because in Euskadi we were pioneers with the TCA program in 1998, when they were destined - for giving the symbolic data - 81 million pesetas. Different resources were set for TCA programmes. And from there, the TCA program has been developed in resources... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to give symbolic data, 81 million pesetas. Resources were set in a differentiated way for TCA programs, and from there, the TCA program has been developed in physical, organizational and human resources, adapting to the new realities that each moment has required. In fact, and as a more recent development, and I say it..., I quote the last report on APTs prepared in 2016, and I say the last one, because the first strategy is from 1983, certain areas of improvement have been identified that have been responded to; for example, strengthening in nursing, improving these years. The same applies to therapeutic dining rooms, we have new therapeutic dining rooms since 2016 in Vitoria, Galdácano and Donosti. Therapeutic eaters that are hospitals, are as if they were day hospitals, where psychotherapeutic treatments, group therapies, individual consultations by psychologists and psychiatrists are offered to treat, among other issues, aspects related to the nutrition and anguish of users. A complete therapy that does not present waiting lists today. We can also talk about reinforcements in juvenile psychiatric care, with the creation and staffing of staff at the OSI in Araba, OSI Barrualde Galdakao, the creation of two outpatient day hospitals dependent on OSI Bilbao Basurto, the mental health network in Bizkaia and a hospital day hospital for adolescents with addictions in the OSI Psychiatry service in Barrualde Galdácano. Also reinforcements in hospital emergencies in the juvenile field. Therefore, a programme which this parliamentary group considers to be appropriate for dealing with the CSFs. And I want to emphasise this, because although we have reached an agreement, which I am glad and grateful to the groups and to all the agents that have participated in this agreement, I do not share certain diagnoses that have been put on the table today in this rostrum, because we do not only consider that this Government deals adequately with the disorders, the TCAs, but that we also have a health system, with Osakidetza, with a public system, free of charge, universal and of quality. And all that makes us have a programme with strong resources and a clear bet from the Basque Government on the TCA programme. Therefore, as I said, a complete programme with resources and support and impetus for the Basque Government and this Parliament, which today is reinforced by the agreement we have reached. The Basque Government was already saying, the Department of Health is responding to this type of disorder with a specific ASD program, because ASD is a specific program within the four within mental health. A program equipped with specific places, with super equipment specialized in these disorders, that is, this diagnosis that I am making does not remove that this program should be or should be in constant observation, in constant analysis, contrast and observation. In fact, our group, and we have also incorporated this into the agreement that we have reached today, we ask the Basque Government to carry out a new evaluation of the TCA programme, what its incidence is, what its needs are, and that these needs be included in the new mental health strategy, which will be analysed in the monograph on TCAs, because we believe that reflection is necessary, especially or more with a pandemic through and its effects on mental health. The Basque Government has already said that it has begun the process of reflection in collaboration with the other institutions and agents of the Mental Health Council, for what, for the definition of a new mental health strategy for Euskadi, which includes, and I think it is important for the issue that we are dealing with today, which includes among its objectives the approach to eating disorders, the TCAs, and for which a new monographic group on this issue, on the TCAs, has been created within the advisory council. From here our parliamentary group appreciates the Basque Government's commitment, because thanks to its approach and determination we have been able to achieve today's parliamentary agreement, and I say that also because of your intervention, because this is a motion resulting from an inquiry in which you advise laid the foundations for this agreement, so it is also part of this agreement, because of your bets, your progress, and the commitment of this government to the APTs, we have also been able today to advance and agree on all political groups, EH Bildu, the People's Party, Basque Socialists and Euzko Abertzaleak. Because I was already telling you today, the groups we are debating today, at least our own and the Basque Socialists, we share this vision of continuous improvement, a vision that you have shown in the last 40 years of Osakidetza's trajectory, and that we have now reached an agreement. An agreement that is moving forward with the Government, responding to users, with a study that will reflect the measures being taken and will be reflected in the new mental health strategy. An agreement that started to carry out, as my colleague Ekain Rico already commented, in an evaluation within a certain time frame, that users, and I believe that it is an important matter, and that they also demanded from ACABE and users, that those users be part of that monographic group analyzing the disorders, the TCA. An agreement which also makes progress in the evaluation of a specific therapeutic programme for long-term hospitalizations, and an agreement which also provides that such referrals should continue to be guaranteed in the event that this is guaranteed by medical criteria. Beraz, esan bezala, a good agreement that contemplates progress, where we have been able to analyze and observe that there is a shared need to give answers that results in the improvement of the health of the patients of TCA, that will advance, because our goal, that of our parliamentary group Euzko Abertzaleak and also that of the Basque Government, has always been and will be the people. We have always placed people at the centre of our policies. That is why we dialogue, agree and try to improve the quality of life, the health of people, in this case, those who suffer from the TCA. That is always our will, and we also know that it is yours, that of the Basque Government. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. It's your turn, Mrs Martínnez, Miss Mistatha-Vox, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u23	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. There is no doubt that the subject we are discussing here today is a very sensitive one, on which I believe we also agree with a large part of those represented here. The disorders of food behaviour, as we have seen during this debate, are increasingly widespread among women, but they are also increasingly common among men. It is a very important problem that affects to a greater extent the younger population in addition, being also irrelevant the economic and social context in which one lives, there are no barriers to this scourge. TCAs are the mental diseases with the highest mortality rate. It's an indescribable suffering, but in no case, it's a whim, it's not a lifestyle, it's not a choice, and of course, it's not a shame... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... it's an indescribable suffering, but in no case is it a whim, it's not a lifestyle, it's not a choice and, of course, it's not a shame. They are serious diseases, but can be cured with treatments, also directed by teams of doctors and psychologists specialized in eating behavior disorders. And, of course, an early diagnosis ensures early treatment and, therefore, better prognosis. To do this, of course, we have to work at very early ages with children, with teachers in the educational institutions where they study, with families, so that they can identify the symptoms; so that a problem of such magnitude does not fall on them like a tear. They are people with very specific needs, with a unique problem, who require specialized attention from professionals from different fields. They need multidisciplinary care, because their disease demands it. In most cases, ACS disorders require the assistance of professionals in psychiatry, psychology, endocrinology, nursing... treatments aimed at recovering the patient's self-esteem. And we need a specific unit to treat these disorders in the Basque Country. They exist, for example, in the Basque private network, and they also exist in other neighbouring communities. Why don't we have him here? Because our health system certainly has many areas of improvement ahead, and that is where we should focus: on improving the shortcomings we have. People who suffer from ASD are smart and healthy young people, who stop feeling comfortable with themselves from night to morning. They stop believing in them. They stop seeing their beauty, both inside and outside. Perfect girls physically and mentally, with dreams and illusions that break inside, and cease to perceive themselves as acceptable to such a demanding society with perfection. Girls who look in the mirror, and the image that moves this mirror do not like them: they look fat. And they decide to solve their problem on their own, hiding it from friends and family. They think no one would understand their problem. Shame on them. They feel guilty. They're afraid of rejection. Feel loneliness as a slab that sinks them. Tragically, they stop eating. And if their family forces them to eat, they run desperate to vomit the ingested. It's a fight without headquarters that they alone want to fight. Every day they look in that mirror that conveys the unreal image of a fat girl. The image your mind projects is the one they see in that damn mirror. The mirror and scale become their only allies. Clothes begin to hang from their weak and weak bodies. They're out of line. They get dizzy and fade on multiple occasions, but their minds do not react: they keep moving the image of a fat girl. They're not able to see reality. Families do not understand what is happening, often because they are not aware of the problem of their daughter, their sister; because of their ability, moreover, in their concealment. And when they perceive the problem, the solution is complicated: first, because they are unaware of what to do in this situation, or because they impose strict vigilance to reverse and reverse the situation of self-induced vomiting. But it's complicated. They are very smart girls, who skilfully escape family control. When someone finally helps them, they help these families, in many cases it's too late. It is therefore important, ladies and gentlemen, that we turn to taking the necessary measures to help these people and their families, and we must not repair either personal or economic efforts. Let us not allow it to be late for any of them from this moment on, because I tell you one thing: it could be our sister, it could be our daughter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u24	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u25	Yes, good morning, everyone. First, to convey our solidarity and the commitment of our coalition to people affected by eating disorders, and to greet, of course, the people invited today to the rostrum and the associations that represent all these people. Of course, this is an important health issue for our coalition. It is a serious health issue that needs to be addressed, which is why we did not table any amendments to Mrs Garrido's initiative, because we were in general, with the exception of one of the points, we agreed with the original initiative before us. I will not repeat, of course, the diagnoses we have heard; many of them we share, especially those who have referred to the reality of this disease; we share them. We also partially share those diagnoses that have been made about the deficiencies in the public health system of Euskadi regarding the treatment and care of patients, patients of this disease, of these disorders. So, I'm not going to repeat – of course – data, but I would... well, one of them would like to express it again. It has already been expressed by others and other spokespersons, but it seems to us to be of particular relevance, which is the special condition that this disorder has on women, and, in particular, on women of young age: it is the third chronic disease among the female, adolescent and youth population in developed countries. And, of course, it is, therefore, an issue to which we believe that this Parliament is more than opportune to pay attention. Moreover, we, of course, without making an amendment to the whole of what Osakidetza has been doing for years in this respect, we do believe that, of course, there are shortcomings. Of course, we believe that if we weren't here today we wouldn't be talking about this, and, above all, we think that today these people and these associations would probably not be here. But it is true that we also do not share an analysis that suggests that Osakidetza has not attended to eating disorders for years. We, as I was saying, agree with... minus one point, with all the points of the original initiative, in this case the People's Party. We agreed, we agreed that a specialized unit should be set up, although finally... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...original, in this case the People's Party. We agree... We agreed that a specialized unit should be set up, although this has not finally been reflected in the agreement they have reached. It is an issue that we have also advocated in other autonomous communities. And it is a question we believe that, moreover, it does not contradict the strategies that Osakidetza has developed so far. We think it is a question of specificity and not so much of changing the treatments given to people. Therefore, it seems to us a good proposal that there should be specialized units for eating disorders in Osakidetza. Of course, of course, we were in agreement with the issue of therapeutic eaters - which in some way if it is collected, I believe, in the agreement - and to remedy the shortcomings of coordination, to guarantee the sufficient number of specialists in psychiatry and psychology - is something about what we have discussed a lot also for other areas, and, of course, as it could not be otherwise, because we have to defend it also for this..., in this case, for this disease - to enable the necessary resources for diagnosis. And then, finally, the issue of prevention, a very important issue. Where, although the original initiative basically talked about informational talks, and so on, we know that the field of prevention goes far beyond that. We believe that it goes far beyond the health system as well. We also did not want to make an amendment that would distort the debate that we were going to have, which is very focused on the health system. But I think it will be good and timely at another time to discuss prevention in relation to the CSFs on other prevention issues, which, as we know, we should talk about the media, advertising, even the cultural sphere, because we know how they influence this disease because the imposition on stereotypes, education, advertising, propaganda, etc. And, therefore, when we talk about prevention, we think that we need to talk far beyond the strictly health field. I am going to refer to the issue that we do not share with the People's Party, and which, from what I have seen, is outside the agreement that you have reached, and therefore we, I say, will vote in favour of that agreement, even if it does not reflect that issue with which we agreed, which is the creation of the specialized unit. We do not agree with the issue of referrals to private centres. We believe that all necessary financial support should be given to families and patients. But if we can allocate public resources for treatment in private facilities, why don't we allocate these public resources for such treatment to be given in public facilities, for it to be given in public health? So, for us that's a red line, it's a red line. I know the People's Party was willing... is willing to vote for points, because we could not vote for that part of his initiative. We do agree with referrals to other public centres in other autonomous communities. Of course. Although we also think that the logical thing is to enhance our system here Osakidetza in Euskadi and that no one has to travel to another autonomous community to have such a treatment. But, of course, for us the red line was that: what can be given in the private sphere can be given in the public sphere. If we allocate public resources, of course, to our coalition, these public resources must be used to ensure that treatments are given from public health to strengthen it. And, logically, that is the best way, in our opinion, to ensure equity in the attention to people. Good. I... Therefore, we cannot sign the agreement because we have not made an amendment, it is not allowed by the regulation. Let's vote in favour. It does draw my attention to the fact that the agreement, being an initiative of the People's Party, is not the signature of the People's Party. But, well, everyone will understand how they manage politics. We, of course, are not going to be sectarians. We have said this many times on these issues. We know what our red lines are. If these red lines have not been overcome, we sign with those who need these kinds of initiatives, who believe that in this case they do constitute a reinforcement for the care of these patients. Although we too would have liked that specialized unit, of course, because we believe that in other territories it has been shown to be positive. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing on the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Answer the spokesman for Podemos. Well, the patients -- and I've had the opportunity to corroborate with them -- what they want is for them to be given proper treatment and they want to be covered, obviously. You said why no resources are created in public health. Well, that'll have to be answered by the department, obviously. ITA has considered it necessary to enable a specific unit as a day hospital, initially with a psychologist, and now with a team of professionals, who, incidentally, also have professionals who are in public health. Therefore, there is demand and there is a need to give an answer. If it is given in the private sphere, it is given in the private sphere. I would also like to see adequate public attention given to all these people. But, obviously, I am in favour of private public collaboration. And to these patients, who, by the way, are here today, if they are given the opportunity to have treatment in the private sphere, so, obviously, if they can be covered, then they should be covered. I, of course, will not veto, and more so when we are talking about treatment and care for people. That the goal I think we all pursue is to heal. I'm not going to spread anymore. I will simply say that I understand that today's agreement is a step forward, but, undoubtedly, it is not the end, and we believe that we must go much further. But it's a starting point. A starting point that is not part of zero, because we have a diagnosis, we have the figures that speak for themselves. And above all, it is an agreement to take necessary measures... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... a starting point that does not part of zero, because we have a diagnosis, we have the figures that speak for themselves. Above all, it is an agreement to take necessary measures, fill gaps, and allocate more resources. Improve treatment and take action, in specific areas where there is already accepted and seen room for improvement. It is important that in the working group it is especially concrete that the users are there; because they have a lot to say, because they are the ones who know the ones who live on the day of their treatment and how their care is. And walk. Today we have not achieved the specific unity, but we are going to walk towards specific resources. And surely, in the end, those specific resources culminate in a specific unit. And I am sure that if we have to create that specific unit - which we understand to be yes - and if the result of that evaluation, where there is going to be a specific demand for a specific unit, is thus estimated by the department, that specific unit is going to be created. And that will be a reality. Because I believe that what we cannot afford as an autonomous community - which in addition we are the autonomous community that we spend most per inhabitant, 1904 euros in health care - patients who had to be treated in Osakidetza, are derived from other autonomous communities, and cases that we know have to be registered in other autonomous communities, because here they do not have the treatment they need. I mean, that can't happen again. And that is also why one important point is that these treatments are covered; these revenues are covered, these displacements are covered, if that specific unit is not created for the time being. Therefore, I think it is important to improve that treatment, that care. The data show that reality is on the rise. And let us hope - I understand that in addition the groups supporting the Government are in this agreement - that the accepted commitments will be fulfilled. More than anything, because there are people affected, there are families, there are associations, and I believe that on this occasion we have all been participants in their testimony, their reality. And I think that if we have done something in this whole process and with this initiative, it is to empathize with the reality of these people, which is also what it was about. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u28	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Gather for the EH team, Mrs Garde from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u29	Yes, well, very short and from a point of view. I shouldn't have spoken, but I had to hear the speech the representative of the EAJ said, well... I understand, you... Yes, you are. I understand that you're going to put on the value of the currently running programs and resources, which I understand. And I think we've started, too, because we've been to Osabaz for many years working on the TCA, and, well, we've had a career there. But to say that Osaclature is a proper focus today, at least not in every case... And that's why we're here today. Today. That is to say that the attention is being adequate, is to throw a little on the ground the work we have done during these hours and during these days. And it also puts a little into question the story of the people who accompany us, and I think that can't happen. And I think you could be a little more critical today. I think there was room for it. I think the situation also requires it. Well, we've come to an agreement. Just like I'm a little misconceptional, I'm already getting into the worst of it. I hope not, that the commitment to participation and the creation of specific resources is real. But, well, we'll see it anyway, we'll be very vigilant. We'll continue to work for that specific unit, for those motivational therapies, for giving a little spin to the model. For family resources and such much-needed support. And well, and that all this, of course and obviously, is done from our public system. Public. Well, thank you. It was a pleasure to work with you, and then we'll go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u30	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u31	Very brief, very brief president. I, I think that sometimes there is a tradition when you come to an agreement and also an agreement as broad as this, then try to devalue it. And I think it's something negative, absolutely negative, and people don't understand very much. I want to highlight the contribution that you have of course made, who today are not accompanying themselves from up there, associations and people who have been affected. And I would also like to highlight the intention that we have had each and every one of the speakers in the parliamentary groups. I know that then this plenary becomes a stage in which everyone - and I the first - also has to put forward and hold on to our political discourse because... I've been censored. It is up to us, therefore, to try to bring the initiatives to which we have come closer to our programmes, to our postulates. But I'm going to deny you the greatest Mrs. Garde. I think it is compatible to argue that from Osakidetza good care is given to patients - and I think so - with the need for further progress. Because obviously in these health benefits that are being given, you see that there are cases that are not resolved well, and here we have a few. Although the generality is that they do resolve. We have a duty, as parliamentary groups, to urge the Government to develop these improvements. But I, too, am going to say one thing; those issues that were reflected in the compromise amendment, regardless of whether a compromise amendment had not been reached, we would be prepared to carry them out. I would therefore like to highlight the actions of all the parliamentary groups. I want to remove that amorous taste from these last interventions, and thank the users and affected people who have accompanied us on this path. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u32	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I won't argue. I had no idea of being polite. I want to put it in value today. [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Mr. President. I'm not going to argue, because I don't have the idea to replicate the agreement that I'm going to make today, not just because I'm going to make the agreement between the legal teams, not just because I have the agreement that we've got between the members of the U.S.P.S.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.A.A.A.R.R.R.R.A.R.A.A.R.A.R.A.A.R.A.A.R.A.R.R.A.R.R.A.A.A.R.R.A.R.R.A.A.R.A.A. But even today, this legislature, we have other means or other means of proceeding that way. So I'd like to put a deal, work, and progress in the value. And I don't think with what I've said I'm taking down the deal. What I have said is that we have a public health of quality, and I confirm it: public, quality, universal. That we have the proper TCA program, and that's what I'm confirming. As far as we have public quality health, so far as we place specific resource, when we have physical, organising, and economic resources in this program, I confirm that we have a suitable CA program. And that doesn't even mean that the deal we made today and our corrections is−, this doesn't mean we shouldn't consider things, we need to evaluate them, we need to analyse them. We believe that the agreement we've made today tells the government that things need to be updated, that we need to consider, resources, resources. In certain particular things, to make a special evaluation in long-term hospitalizations, to put a special examination or point of view on it in the debates. But I believe that the description of this reality enables the arrangement, because we begin from a reality, that we must consider this reality, that it is necessary to update it, that means, measures, and means should be applied to it. And I think that puts the bargain in value rather than destroy it. So I want to finish thank you. From a discussion again, starting from the mental health agreement today, I think we've gone on our way to work together in this matter. That's what I'm talking about. We have this view of working by teams of law, which is represented in treaties. So, thank you for the legal teams, and for the organizations you're up there today, you do to people, because of the work you've always done, and for the integrity of your agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Mystto-Vox, it's yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u35	What I want to say is that we do not have a proper TAC programme. That's obvious. If the TAC programme really would be appropriate, today we would not have these people asking for an improvement in our health system to deal with these problems of eating behavior. On that basis, we do not have a health system adapted for them. Our group will indeed vote in favour of this amendment. And it is going to do so because we believe that all that is improving on the way so that the treatment of these people is adequate is positive. But that's not why we're going to put on fabric... Let's call into question that it's not a... The nice thing is not to make a diagnosis. We've got the diagnosis. We have many families who give us their point of view, we have many patients who tell us their situations. I mean, we've already got the diagnosis. What is now needed are decisive measures and urgent decisions. That's what we have to do. We can't keep them waiting. For example, psychological care. A person with a disease of these characteristics, a food disorder, a psychologist or a psychiatrist who is not specialized in this treatment cannot be cared for. They need trained people who specialize in eating behavior disorders. And that's the path we have to take. Therefore, I repeat, we are not going to reject agreements that can contribute to the best treatment of patients in the TAC. But for us it is still necessary to create a specific unity, and also public, that we share, because the economic level cannot be a conditioning when it comes to treating a pathology as serious and widespread as these are. We know the needs and shortcomings of our health service in the care of people with TACs. And now it's up to us to work to improve all those fringes that we've been unscrewing throughout our different interventions. And I think that's what we all have to put on soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u36	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u37	Yeah. To ask Mrs Garrido, as proposer of the initiative, because she has finally not signed the agreement and, I understand, her original initiative is going to be voted on, to ask her to vote for points, because, as I said, we do not share point 2. Because, let us not be fooled, Mrs Garrido, we all agree that we must support families to receive treatment. The difference between what you pose and what our group stands for is in how you help them get those treatments. We have this very clearly: if we have the financial resources, we have to use them to guarantee these treatments in public health. Because you were right about one thing: many of the doctors who then attend to them in private health also work in public health. It is not a question of who offers a better service. It is a question of whether we want to push for proper, adequate and complete treatment in public health or not. And that is why we think that these resources should be allocated to ensure that public health guarantees these treatments and not simply to provide aid, which, as we know, will never cover the total of these treatments in private health and which, therefore, leave the most vulnerable families or with less economic resources in a situation of inequity... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... the total number of such treatments in private health and therefore leave the most vulnerable families or with less economic resources in an unfair situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u38	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. After the discussion, we'll go into the vote and vote for the original text of Mrs Garrido Knör's motion. As far as I understand, the second point is drawn, so in the first round we vote one, three, four, five, six, and seven. We can vote. [[Slow]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 31; the contrary, 41; the abstainance, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u39	So these points have been rejected. Now, we vote on this second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 6; contraries, 46; Abstations, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u40	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the Esquilists, the EH Collectors, and the intermediate corrections signed by the Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71 for 71, contrarys to 0; Abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u41	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Provide the proposition as a parlamentary team, the preparation offer of the profession concerning the active strategy of treating two official languages in EAE. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Representative of the EH Group has the word of Mrs. Ubera in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u42	Good morning, everyone. Too bad the Mountain isn't here today's argument. Lanbideren presakuntza-eskaintzan ofizialak diren bi hizkuntzen arteko orekaren inguruan Mendia andrea interpelatu genuenean, datuak eman zizkigun ikustek zein den gaur egungo egoera. Lan eta enpleguko sailburuak -bere hitzetan esan bezala -, datu errealak eman zizkigun. Horrela esan zigun: "You have offered some data, I offer you the reals at the end of the two main calls for training courses for the period 20-22: the courses for unemployed people have been 2496 taught in 98 centers, and none has been so far in Basque. For employed people, there have been 6535 courses in 130 centres, four of which are teaching a total of 11 courses in Basque." Well, data... They're the only ones who say, the most disturbing data. We thought when he told us he'd give real facts, it'd be better than we did. But, unfortunately, the details he threw were worse. But the worst was not that, but he left the whole responsibility to the students. He said: "We've doubled the resources in the budget, but in the end, students are the ones who make the decisions." Very troubling assertions. It is to throw out the pilots, and the chief physician left all care in others, and left it in the students, and left it to the weaker. For the administration ought to be a procactive position to make use of propriety, and to make a proper offer, and to transfer it to the student, just as it was at one time when the IRLLE was in action. Nevertheless, if the means be doubled, but there is no intention of making the world permanent on the side of the Land and Empedugu, if there is no concern for the people in the business, to throw down a message which may be made of eulogy in the world, or to develop a solid strategy, we shall hardly be able to proceed forward. Or play the little one, huh? When you play a course at the small one, for instance, even if you don't want to give numbers, if you don't want to make a stand for the course, you can hardly work on the euccany of the world. And so the language of the people is not guaranteed. It's no good to say that in the strategic plan, language equality is recorded at 4.5, and that's enough for that. It has 164 pages of strategic plan, and two goals and four measures only in what concerns language criteria. Only six lines. We know the number of lines isn't significant, but we can't move on with what's picked up there. In fact, considering how high it is, mentality is reflected into a very old-fashioned mentality. We could hardly move on these parameters. It is the mentality which reflects it, the mentality of the good workman or of the eumancipated workman; that is to say, it is studied for eucalyptus, and on the other hand it is formed for work. When this mentality is already outdone in the study of any language, and other line of work is in progress. And that mentality was also explained when the employment department's chief engaged him. He said in interpelation: ţMás allá de las Urgencias que nos pueda estarando la guera en... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... When we got in, you got your D.P.P.P.P.'s in the lobby. Horrela were a zigun interpelazion: "Beyond the emergencies that the war in Ukraine may be generating, the companies that are demanding us are very concrete technical profiles, very specific, among those that do not place between their preferences or their emergencies, precisely the languages in general, and in particular the Basque language". Telita. Telita. Bathing in the horrekin of the Esanda génatezen da zin den Lan eta Enpleguko sailburuaren asmoa. Eta, aldi berean, kontraesanean jausten da erealitàrekin; ikusi, beast, elkarteak eta zer langile mota eskatzen ari diren, eta kanpotik ze langile ekarriko diren langile gabeziagatik. Nevertheless, in countries in the world, where language is reduced, the forms of work are already in languages which are at least official for work, because in years, we have been planning this matter in several commissions, when the powers of communication are cultivated by companies, without distinction, connected with context and context conditions. This isn't going... It's not a film. now we learn innovation, and then we learn to euska. No, that's over. That was all over. Here's what's going on. we learn rescindation by euphoration. We also learn new technology by eucay. And not only learn, but also build: We build new technology with eucalyptus. We should build new technology, industry, a Basque. It is true also that he mentioned this new learning to obtain communicative capacities, but very indirectly, but it is true that from what has been said, and that it cannot be inferred from the strategic point of view that the course of work, new methods, which have already been established in Europe by those new propensities, is involved in this work and the Enplex Department. And what do you say on the strategic plan? Well, I'll read to you because it's so short what language says about criteria in the strategic plan. There are two targets. It is a purpose to promote the task as an instrument to access it, and in this end there are four measures taken: to study the eucalyptics, 25.500 students, to strengthen the systems of autocism, and to record more students in the euccancies, 13200 students; to promote employment in private eucalyptics, to approach the working conditions of the professors of the municipal eucalyptics, −, and fourthly to perform the euphoration of immigrants, 9.5. That doesn't get how it's going to get done any more than that. And the second target: In the Education of Education, inserting the learning of the eucalypice. The ballot point, that's all there is to ask. Is it enough to do the world with what you've got there to make it Basque? I mean, you know, you can't go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Message could not be: At school you can learn to do it, but then it's quiet, in the world of work and leisure, and it's not important to do it. Message could not be: because it is the state of the usage of the euphorium, there is no need to encourage it in the world to resist it. It should be a task, a function, an initiative, a job, a world of euphorion, in order to be more useful, because we can't ask less for it in the land of the euca. If we don't, who will? I'll call you later on something. That's why the profession needs a shock. He needs a deep beating on the strategy. We can't continue with a strategy that answers the society of the past with criteria and nices. New times require a profound change, a constant and constant change for modification. We have seen what results have been before, and see what the results of Cluster have been in five years. I don't know what else we need to open our eyes. It's not enough to make the work world Euscalate that's supported by the Expedition of the Basque Age. We're not going anywhere with the expressions of good will. Then this has to be developed. We need development measures. We need to get down to specific strategys. Therefore we have made this proposition of the Law we have made: to pass to action, to take another step. And what is that which we have already stated in the other case as a whole? What we propose, in every profession, and in every profession, but in this we mark the priorities: in the social area, in the sanitary, in the department and in the trade trade profession, training and offering are what we plan to define and operate in six months the strategy of determining and establishing the ability to acquire the language of official languages in EAE. We plan to start working with those centers. Then we plan this strategy, in the course of the courses that are offered to the unemployed, and also to the busy workers who are working, because there are schools in it, and we are very worried about this situation. We also plan to place these new − methods on the other side, into the hands of the centres, and to work with the centres where these new methods work. And tell me that it may be a good time, even though we're already late... How many years we've been arguing about the same thing in this house... It's a good time now for the Board of Hostship before the announcement. And there's a nice chance of it. He said he'd bring employees from outside because there's a lack of workers in the hosting. Well, it's a hell of a chance to get this business line started. For we bring workers from outside that we think it's pretty good, porcinto−, and then what? Then what should we listen to, in the best case? "Perdónem, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you "I don't know. Or, in the worst case, as it happens to us now, you have to get bad faces or bad answers... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... me puede hablar en castellano, por favor? "Or in the worst case, as it happens to us now, we must have bad faces or bad answers. So let's take advantage of this opportunity we have to set up other working lines. It's a nice opportunity we've got. We won't deny it's hard, but now is the time. Look at the demographic challenge that we've got, what's going on in the Sociosanitarian camp, what's going on in the host field, what's going on in the world, in general. I've already mentioned − to come to an end, I've told you about our proposal. But I'd like to explain to you that it was a good, very good policy by Podemos together. Besides receiving the content we receive, it penetrates into them. The other, on the other hand, allows us to obtain a special certificate of communications, and even to adapt the evaluation to these new methods of method, which we have proposed to facilitate the application of the means of formation. And we all agree with these contributions. That's why we've made the middle cut and put that half-breed into the vote. It's time to go to action. It's not enough to say we're on the side of the eucalyptus. If you're on the Basque side, you have to act. There's already plenty of nice words left. It is not enough to say, and still less effective, that we are on the side of the eucalyptus, that the treaty is necessary, that fine words should be spoken, and that afterwards nothing should be done. Everyone likes nice words, everyone; but he needs actions rather than nice words, he needs action, he needs productivity, he needs government responsibility. It is a matter of responsibility to make the world permanent, and not to put it upon the third person-that is to say, over the students or individuals. But above all, what has been said, action, and politics require precise measures. And that's what we've been trying to put specific proportions on the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u44	Well, we, although it is true that the original initiative that Mrs Ubera brought as she was did not share - as it was and as it was written - we did share the objective mostly, especially as set out in the explanatory statement, and also in quite a few of the things she put here to the counselor when she questioned her. And that is why we have made a full amendment with a number of proposed issues that we understood - if agreement were reached - could of course have our logical support. Mrs. Rebeka has included them. Mrs Ubera, I'm sorry, you have included them in the transaction. And we are satisfied, because we believe that it improves the original initiative and, of course, makes it possible for us to vote on the initiative even if it is not going to come out, because there has been no agreement with the groups that support the Government. We of the original initiative, Mrs Ubera, did want to point out to you that, as it was, we thought that its application could pose a new difficulty in access to employment for many people, in relation to those who could not acquire certain language skills. And it also assumed - we think - that valuable training centres could be expelled or de facto expelled by forcing them to meet certain requirements; very valuable training centres in terms of specialized and not so specialized trainings that we must rely on. That is why our proposals - which have also been summed up in some way by Mrs Ubera - were coming, or it was our intention, of course, to try to correct those two elements which, in our view, could have such a negative effect, because, of course, our objective is to be able to combine the development of Basque in the world of work, in the world of work - of course, yes - but without adding difficulties to thousands of workers on a complicated issue, which is often access to employment. We proposed certification similar to that of professional certification, which is a tool has proved very useful in the field of work and job integration. Of course, I have defended her many times. And we, in our coalition, think that this is perfectly transferable to the linguistic sphere in the world of work. A model based on practical performance, experience, and not so much on exams and this model of profiles that we know, which for many areas of work implies a rigidity that can pose a difficulty in access to employment and even be counterproductive when learning Basque and developing Basque in the world of work in sectors where it is not used or not used as we would like and enough. And then also, in the same sense, we include something that we always defend, we also talk about, the linguistic model related to that spirit of Belarus and Ahobizi, through which the four oral and written competences are included by differentiating them. We think that this is very positive when it comes to adapting that learning to the working reality of many sectors. One of them is that the initiative makes a priority reference, which, if I remember correctly, talks about health care and hospitality. It seems to us that this is a very important initiative when it comes to the field of hospitality, where we have... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...the health and hospitality services. It seems to us that this is a very important initiative when it comes to the field of hospitality, where we have professionals who have language training acquired in time at work, but who may not be able to certify certain profiles, and therefore, because it seems to us a tool that can be very useful. And then, not to force, as I said, the centers, but to facilitate them, which is what we propose, when they are acquiring that methodology in order not to expel them, but to acquire that methodology, and we are moving forward. Because it's true, then the figures you discussed, well, you didn't argue because you agreed on the figures, right?, the figures are very low in relation to the courses in which there is Basque, or are Basque in the field of training, both unemployed and occupied people. And then we added an important question, which we know is not the panacea, which is not a magic solution, but which we are always going to defend, which is that of remuneration to workers in the private sphere so that they can take permits, in this case, to learn Basque. We know that it is not a magic solution, first of all, because many and many workers will not be able to take such permits, even if they are entitled, even if they have remuneration, because we know what the reality of the world of work is in the private sphere, but we certainly think that it is a positive tool for many and many workers who can devote time, without losing wages, to learning Basque. Therefore, these are the contributions that we wanted to make, which have been included in the transaction, and which, well, we are satisfied with that agreement that we have reached in this case with the EH Bildu group. I would simply like to make a reference to the amendment of the PNV and the Socialist Party, which says that Parliament is reaffirmed in the agreed agreement, in an earlier agreement in the Committee on Culture, and then refers to the development of what is laid down in the Strategic Employment Plan; that is, two things that are already there. So, I'd say it's a non-initiative, if we approve it, and so, well, we're not going to..., we're not going to back it up. What I understand is a non-initiative that does not provide any additional impetus to the Government. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u45	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u46	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, everyone. We're on the last step, and I'm not going to talk long. On the one hand, because I believe that most of what is demanded in the initiative is already contained in the Euskal strategy of the Eplegus, and also in the Stratical Planstra of Euscara, and consequently because they are firm commitments to this government. The Euscal Strategy of Emplegue predicts a strategic order of language for equality. It was the purpose of a monographic committee, which passed through this strategy parliament, that we had the opportunity to present to all the groups the prospects of solutions, and, oddly enough, EH Collect did not propose any proposal about the subject we are now discussing. However, as I say, the Department of Land and Eplegu got this line on these points, as Mrs. Ubera has advanced. On the one hand, as a tool to create a job to promote to the cradle. That's why different lines will be pushed. In the first place, in order to promote the education of grown-ups, when strategy is applied, there will be about 25,500 students who will make use of this line. Secondly, by strengthening a system of self-discipline in the Basques; in this case, with more than 13,000 students. Thirdly, by encouraging employment in private Basques, to approach the conditions of the professors of the public offices. And fourthly, with an impulse to make the immigrants come to 10,000 foreign-born students. As I say, since the core of the initiative that we are bringing to the debate today is already reflected in the Basque Employment Strategy, where the Government is committed to promoting measures aimed at, first of all, learning Basque for adults, estimating about 25,500 students who will benefit from this line during the period of implementation of the strategy, strengthening self-learning systems in the Basques, with a target of more than 13,000 students, promoting quality employment in the private Basques, approaching the working conditions of the teachers of the public Basques, and an impetus for the euskaldunization of the immigrant population, with the intention of reaching 10,000 pupils of foreign origin. On the other hand, within the same strategic line, it is also committed to integrating Basque learning into vocational training through Lanbide, with the aim of reaching 3,000 unemployed people. As you can see, this is a strategy that proposes actions to promote euskera as a tool for insertion and integration into the workplace. In fact, as he reminded us of Mrs. Vice President, the Department of Job and Empeding in general, and particularly the profession, they work in an active manner, in order that no language should be disturbed when they find work. But he resists the problem, with an objective and honest diagnosis of the situation, by removing any prejudices which are more and more remote from the social social social social reality. I therefore insist that much of the initiative we are bringing to the debate today is already covered in the Basque Employment Strategy. I believe that all groups share the objectives. No one can today deny the importance of Basque, not only as one of the fundamental elements that characterizes our identity, but as a factor of employability. Sometimes in this very House I have referred to a study - which is true that we would have to... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... fundamental elements that characterize our identity, but as a factor of employability. Sometimes in this same House I have referred to a study - which it is true that it should be updated - carried out by the Euskadi Workers' Commissions, where it highlights the gap between the unemployed who know Basque and those who do not know it. "Creo que todos los grupos compartimos ese objectitiv." What tools we have to use for this purpose is what separates us from ourselves. We Socialists believe that the Euscala strategy of Eplegus and the Stratical Plan of Euscara has sufficient power, and that no new strategy is required. Our job as a member of the legislature is to try to make sure the commitments are fulfilled. As I say, therefore, what distance us is more the tool to achieve the objective that I consider common. We Basque Socialists believe that the Basque Employment Strategy and the Euskera Strategic Plan have sufficient potential, and that no new strategy is needed. Our role, as parliamentarians and parliamentarians, is to ensure that the Government's commitments are met. The commitments that are already reflected in the strategies; they are not only the references of the strategy, but the commitments that derive from them. However, today we have seen the employment data. Today there are 33,098 unemployed less than when the legislature began. The number of unemployed is lower than in February 2009 before the financial crisis. And it is a decline that is recorded between all age groups, and between women and men. Today, in Euskadi, there are more people than ever working. There are 3,946 more than a month ago; 48,000 more than when the crisis of the covid began, almost 4,000 more than the peak of 14 years ago. There have never been so many people working, contributing and with rights. At the present day there are fewer unemployed than when the law began. The number of unemployment is smaller than that of the 2009 February-i.e. less than those which preceded financial crisis. And this descent has been recorded between all ages and men. Today, Eukadin is working more than ever. It's over 3946 months ago, more than the covida crisis starts, more than 48,000 workers, more than 14 years old. There's never been so many people at work with glue and rights. 14 years ago, in July 2008, before the financial crisis, there were 982,935 persons affiliated with Social Security. Currently there are 986,436. With many more people retiring and with little variation in the total population. Today there are almost 4,000 more people working than three hours ago. At the same time, the number of recipients of GIR again declines, precisely because of the same increase in employment. With all this, what I mean is that Lanbide is a key part of our self-government. It is one of the fundamental pieces of which all Basques and Basques – speaking the language – should feel proud and proud. Lanbide is the best reflection of those values that make us a people open to diversity and solidarity. Let's have a long look. Let's not fall into the same game when all the organizations we've built among all the people. I'm done. Let's take a look. We do not fall into the same game as those who arrive in this room Thursday after Thursday with the sole intention of questioning the institutions that we have built among all the citizens. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We have had another argument recently connected with this or that it may be connected with it, that of the eucalyptus and the work of the world. And then, above all, he was placed in the subject of the Education of Education. And I believe that we are all conscious of the great and obvious progress of the Basque system in the last 40 years, that this road has had different degrees of progress in different parts; and that even if the world has had its advance, it has not been the greatest advance. And the profession, as the public service of employment, is not exempt from it; the other, because the profession had its evolution and its history, and the other by its activity in hand. Therefore even the criticisms which are sometimes made to him are not too just. And we had an interpelation before this on April 1st, and I'd like to mention the way Mrs. The eucalyptic training of the profession will be guaranteed and guaranteed the offer of lectures. And as the will of the pretty ones is often measured by means of budgets, the means have been doubled. And I think it's worth it. But reality is crude, yes. Ereality is crude and the numbers are what they are and disturbing. A difficult situation. It's not the client's concern, but we should also consider that they are the perfects in our hands, and that if the rest isn't the hardest part of the way to normalization, it's probably the worst part of the disease. That way, get your balances... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... if it be not the hardest thing on the road, it is probably one of the most difficult. Thus balance is still the goal to attain, and this goal has a lot of trouble in the way. Balance for the balance between the two languages. On the one hand, necessarily versus right, hegemony reduced versus, and the periods of modification we live in. By no means, I think it has not been thought of here during the examination of Mr. Alonso's Eulegal strategy, which has been mentioned in him by Mr. Alonso, more than in a speech. This strategic plan proposes actions to promote to support, as a tool to work and create jobs. Suspent of Euska, among other things, to promote to the Basque Sea as a tool for entering the job. We're talking about 25,500 students. Autocity systems are strengthened and recorded in the eucalyptics; 13,200 students or immigrants, from a foreign race of 9855 students. Here, in reflection, I believe it was Mrs. Ubera who said: Is that enough? No. Probably not enough. But I think that the direction is marked, and that this strategy will have to evaluate when its time is over. As for myself, I am not going to enter into the circle of methods about it. The Podemos introduces a field together, says that the establishment of loans to public funds should be able to learn to keep it at work time, in conjunction with family life and personal life. Well, it's a proposition. I think it may be examined and interesting, but I think this has a different field. And it is certain that if we were to join ourselves in a dispute about this proposition, we should join a little bit of it in a mad wheel. What would be the first need for public funds, for social agents to come to the agreements, for social agents to have public funds later on. Well, not to mention it, it seems to me that we should be obliged to leave this to the collective negotiation. And you, Mr. Hernandez, and I, and Mr. Alonso, Mrs. Ubera, I'm not so sure, we believe in a collective negotiation. And in the case, well, in that social conversation table. I don't think we've given that social conversation table enough. The mountain lady mentioned in her speech what I did not know, and what seemed interesting to me to this subject. And he used to say that courses are designed by a committee at the Council of Occupation. Maybe even those who don't participate in it, give them a little thought... They ought to take a little walk in their own way. And then we had the middle-class one. And here it has been spoken of fine words about the eucalyptus. And I'll remind you of what Mrs. Ubera said on a April day. He would say: "We need policies of language to live on, and not to survive the eucalyptics; we want to live with it, and we need precise measures." And I quite agree, I quite agree, and I speak these words, word by word. But there, wherever, and this time I'll go in with something like that I told Podemos together. There's a field of work we've got. Because I don't know whether we sometimes realize it directly or indirectly, we have our septs here, our discussions, we get excited. But, after all, our field is a parliamentary, and, after all, we're co-workers. And this is what politics required, which required precise measures, when a man who wants to live on the eucharator, sends us a mere youthful proposal. Not even the most eloquent Siquies. That's a good way to live on. And I'll tell you what I said the other day: I don't think it's particularly critical, because I know the attitude, the degree of knowledge, and I can tell what kind of alphabetization. Well, I know habits and many other things, the fear and the fear that make them happen in technical terms and so on. But by chance, this half-way proposal was sent to us, who were going to keep us company. And then it's no use coming in with nice words and saying: we have words and actions as a language of labour, and to ask others for words and actions. And this I should not reproach Mrs. Ubera if she did not begin the speech of one of her April saying that the profession does not give an institution of euscal, it does not seem to be a Basque institution. And when he came back, I confess I've known him once more with the ability to surprise him. The content and attitude of the media? Well, it's a little content with the same terms that we made the rest of us correct. A totum revolutum enters our first paragraph with reference to the culture committee, the agreement which had been made on the committee. But it's not, it's no more... It doesn't fit anymore. And at last they are corrected by the terms that had been made. And that's all for the first time, or for the first time, the first time. I've sometimes had the impression that Mrs. Ipiñazar, our teammate, said to one of you, had once said to him in Spanish: You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you I mean, there's been an attempt, but there's not much intention. And I'd like to end the importance of the agreement, even though some of them describe it as pretty words in their speech, I think it's the importance of the deal... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... though some describe it as fine words in his discourse, I think it is the importance of the agreement that we ought to show here the importance of the agreement, the patrons of eumancipators, the Farres, and the little protagonisms of which we have spoken, because the themes between the rest are at cross-roads. And it occurred to me in reference to what a song says, the dust of the stars, that says: "When the host of the earth is well rooted, He binds our roots to the earth, And keeps [them] from it: that, by the war of the former, the negation is always considered as a law, always going forward." And so we would like to remark that in the areas between the eucatures, we need agreements, major agreements, national traditions, and sactorials. For instance, from the table at the Socier dialogue that is completed. Today... Well, I can... What we couldn't have, but what I'll do in my career from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Missta-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u50	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal presented here today stems from the question raised in plenary last April. During that session Bildu's proposal called for a balance between Basque and Spanish in Lanbide's training offer. Why not ask, for example, the same thing in education, that it coexists in model A and D? In access to public work, half squares with a linguistic profile in Basque and the other half squares with a linguistic profile in Spanish? Why don't you make an effort on that too? It is false that you bet on achieving bilingualism, that argument is only an alibi and a smokescreen to camouflage your true intention, which is nothing other than imposing monolingualism on Basque. If you had the necessary tools, you would extend the imposition of Basque to all areas and establish a language model for Catalan. Bildu has a linguistic reference to Catalonia, where there is a suffocating pressure to impose Catalan in all orders, both public and private. Its model is simply to impose the euskera and orillate as much as possible the Castilian. And the proposal they bring here today to debate - as I have said before - serves as a perch, once again, to use Basque in a victimistic way. Despite the fact that experts, for example in the field of education, warn of the failure of linguistic policies imposed by footwear, you, far from carrying out a reflection, intend to deepen a failed imposition, and perhaps the root of the failure we find in the imposition itself. Trying to impose is never a good recipe, because freedom always ends up imposing itself. Lanbide aims to manage active employment policies. The training of unemployed people and work mediation must be their top priority. What worries this political group is that Lanbide is an effective and efficient entity, although unfortunately it is not. The Basques, for the most part, must find work through their family and personal contacts, because the body responsible for facilitating access to the labour market is ineffective. This is what we should really worry about: Lanbide's failure as an intermediary agency to get a job and abandon the drama of being unemployed. This group, in fact, has asked in writing to know the actual data, and today I put the same question out loud: what percentage of those enrolled in Lanbide find work through this body? We sincerely believe that the answer they give us is not going to leave this Government in a very good place. Bildu is concerned about the educational offer in Basque. We are concerned about a number of other issues that we also consider much more necessary to improve the functioning of this body. Firstly, there are not enough places in each course offered for the total number of applicants. It seems to us a drama that someone who is unemployed and wants to be recycled can stay without taking a course, as is the case for lack of places. Secondly, we are concerned about how selection processes are carried out to access these courses. The selection is carried out by the training centres on the basis of criteria that the applicant does not know. And if it is discarded, the explanation offered is simply a phone call expressing that there are other people who better fit the course profile. However, no objective written assessment is offered. Therefore, an objective scheming system may need to be established to avoid selection processes that may be suspected of being arbitrary. Thirdly, we are concerned about the provision of training and in particular about business practices. There are courses taught by Lanbide that do not offer this possibility. In our view, training practices should be one more element within the course, as these are a key element in facilitating access to the labour market. And in the courses in which this possibility exists, Lanbide should monitor how they are carried out, because there are companies that use the unemployed in periods of practice, for tasks that have little to do with the training course carried out. I would like to give an example: a person who has completed an accounting and taxation course and practices in telephone care and the performance of chairs and photocopies. In other words, there are companies that use these people to cover their business needs at zero cost, and they continuously use people trained by Lanbide to save themselves the hiring and salary of an employee. Frankly - I repeat again we consider that there are much more important issues than solving in Lanbide than the training offer in Basque. In this Parliament, everyone here at some point has talked about the importance of youth unemployment and we have done so because the incorporation of our young people into the labour market is a key element for our future as a society. Unfortunately, however, little has been said about the group of people over 45, for example. This group is that the greater number of people in unemployment accumulates. We are talking about 62,000 people who represent more than 50% of the total. In addition to being the most numerous collective, it also leads the lowest number of recruitments. The increase in the percentage of recruitments in this age group in the years 2020-21 was 4.7%... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...lower number of recruitments. The increase in the percentage of recruitments in this age group in the years 2020-21 was 4.7%, much below, for example, 16% in the 35-44 age group, 19% in the 25-34 age group, or 18% in the under 25 age group. In other words, it is the most numerous collective, and in addition, the one that receives the least recruitments. We are talking about a group that, moreover, because of its age, bears family burdens. To this it must be added that to this situation it also derives in situations of stress or anxiety due to the anguish resulting from the situation they live. We are therefore faced with a group which is suffering from the chronisation of unemployment, and which is completely forgotten by the Basque Government. For all the above, that Bildu's concern is the educational offer in Basque, seems to us a frivolity. The problem is that some do not accept the reality in which we live, a reality in which the Basque, despite the fact that their knowledge is actually increasing, their use remains minority. It is a reality that they refuse to accept, because its approach is purely political in nature. The euskera is the cornerstone of your nation's project. Without a language of its own that has been used mostly by citizens, it is difficult to justify the existence of a nation of its own. It is difficult to understand a claim for a national status of its own, when the majority language in that territory is that of that other nation from which it is intended to differentiate and to segregate. And that's the key to everything. In fact, the counselor said it during the substantiation of the inquiry, which she commented, and I think it was clear to us all. There is not enough demand for training courses in Basque. And we add that companies do not demand profiles with the euskera requirement as a requirement for their job offers. You have not had to dive through employment portals, where the demand of the euskera by the business side is virtually nil. Companies in their job offers demand are types of profiles in which the demand of the euskera is very residual. We ask you to focus on the real problems that affect people who are unemployed. In this way, we will be able to facilitate their access to the labour market and promote the development of a vital project on conditions of full equality with the rest of the citizens. The difference is that we are concerned that people don't work, and Bildu, that they don't learn Basque. We prioritize the Basques working, and Bildu, who know Basque. That's the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u51	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The popular group is gone. We'll take the answers turn. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u52	Well, I'll start answering Mr. Faraway. When there's no argument to refuse the initiative, it's not always the best chance of boredom, Mr. Faraway. And the agreement is not the end, in that way. The deal is... it is only an instrument, in order to improve things, or to attain ends. If the ends cannot be attained, or if there is no further improvement, the agreement is abolished. I will not question your efforts, Sir Faraway, as you have doubted our efforts to make and get bargains. But since we made this proposal on your part far away, I am still waiting for an answer: I received no answer from you, no counterpoise, nothing. Zero. So, it's an effort when you're really trying, when you give an answer, when you make a suggestion, and so on, but it's not like that. Then I was surprised that negotiation... I understood that; perhaps I misunderstood, didn't I?... That we don't believe in the collective negotiation, with all the wood we're offering, to negotiate with the unions. I don't know, would you mind explaining why we don't believe in a collective negotiation? And then, on the other hand, I don't know if you remember, because, for example, we've brought our proposal here today from the legislature of 2012 into several commissions, and, along with this collective negotiation, I told my wife the Mountain in another commission, to push on the plans of language when we asked her, we put a collective negotiation on the table. For we applauded him, and there he was seen when there is will, and when he cares what he has done with the plans of equality to the mountains: He's put a collective negotiation on the table, and they're trying to push on the social plans... But he didn't want to do it in language. And, anyway, today we were told today that nothing could be done-that was what it was and the point. Then it's not because we say it, it's you. And the previous day, I explained the subject of interference, which Mrs Garrido didn't quite understand, don't I? : that of placing all rights to the level and working together. Because in the end, we're not divided, but we have to make all rights in the integral way. And among the trampled ones one can't make steps, but here, unfortunately, one does it with eucalypice. And, well, I don't know what... I don't know... that we've been arguing about it several times. The importance of language is more than once founded on scientific evidence, explaining how important it is to the public incluation, for comprehension. But, klarus, you don't seem to want to see it, do you? And here the balance is spoken of, but as long as the action is not taken, the balance is more and more remote. And here there is no effort and no effort to really balance. And I agree. I agree, Mr. Alonso, it's the profession key, it's the key. That's why we brought the proposition. And, for the sake of that proposition, what you said was that we didn't put it on the strategic book of the eucha, the pilot of the project we put together, because we're continually kicking, and it was agreed with our initiatives. But that's not part of the strategic plan. Now they're received at the strategic plan... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the pilot of the project, because we are continually ruining it, and it was accepted with our own initiative. But that's not part of the strategic plan. Now I have read to you what is contained in the strategic plan: It's only six lines from 164 and there's no such thing. And what we have here said is the cultivation, in some other methodologys, which are already cultivated in Europe for years, that is, not a good workman or a Basque workman, no; that is to say, to guarantee the rights of the people; that is to say, of the offer of quality in all languages, and especially in official languages. And we must not forget that euca is an official language. And when the goal is shared, the end is heard several times, we share the goal and agree with the purpose. If the goal came to be shared, there would be no problem in accepting it as today's initiative. We hesitate, then, whether we share our ends or agree with our ends, for we see the difficulties of taking action when the theme of the eussa is brought to the desktop. And that's an objective data. It is an objective data, because it is difficult to pass beyond theory and beautiful words, because there are difficulties in taking action. And when there's will, it's because you see things are done. The mountain itself, and I shall repeat it again, as I have said before, as it has done with the plans of equality. So, what's the trouble with eucacharity about language plans or projects like that, which is already a tendency throughout Europe? Why can't we do it here? It doesn't mean you're dealing with other languages. In the enterprises which favour the Basque, confession and respect for other languages are discovered. I had other things to explain, but, well, to finish it. The data is there, the data is sad. And, in truth, if the hand does not enter and shake, if it does not give way to the profession, and to the simplicity of the other strategic plan, nothing is developed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u54	Briefly, because I think Mr. Urrutia has had a detail... I can't locate you now, Mr. Urrutia, where you are. Excuse me. I think he's had a detail. I think it's ugly. And I am going to intervene on this, because I believe that one, perhaps, I am wrong, but one of the reasons why Mrs Ubera in this case has transferred to you a transactional proposal in Spanish is because she is also negotiating, in this case, with my group, where I am the spokesman, and she knows that I do not speak Basque and therefore facilitates me to work with the transaction in Spanish. And I think that's an ugly detail when it comes to explaining it there, in that rostrum. I would also like to address the Socialist Party, Mr Alonso, because I understand that we are in agreement in substance. I don't know. What I know is that we have made, before this initiative, whose original text I have already said that we do not share, a proposal for concrete measures. Concrete measures. And I have not really heard any arguments about those measures, either in favour or against. Neither for nor against. But I have heard him say - it seems to me - that they are actually already, that they are actually already. In the strategy, what these concrete measures are, which we have introduced, are not. Another thing is that they are perfectly compatible with this strategy and that, perhaps, the department that the Socialist Party was carrying out intends to implement these kinds of measures. Well, great, but they're not. And, therefore, if you fit into that strategy and, moreover, you have such measures, I think it would have been a good opportunity for a parliamentary agreement. And then a final reference to Mr Urrutia also, in connection with the negotiation, the Social Dialogue Bureau. Indeed, there are subjects that are of the Social Dialogue Bureau, because I have defended many times - you have heard this - that they are also political subjects and that have to be discussed also in Parliaments. This concrete, that of pay for permits, in this case to learn Basque, is a proposal that, if I remember correctly, at least Workers' Commissions has raised at those tables for a long time. I understand that if it has not been put into practice it is because the other parties at that table - the employer and the Basque Government - may not have agreed or reached agreement. You'll have your way on the table and you'll talk about these things. Here in Parliament too. It is a political proposal, and we need to talk about them. Then you, as a government, logically, will also have to take her to those tables of dialogue. Well, you're a group that supports the government. It is therefore logical that I should refer to you as the Government, Mr Urrutia. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u55	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mist? He mustn't speak. Eubertarians... The Social Party, Mr. Allonsus, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u56	Yeah, well, we all feel like we're done. Good. Mr Hernández, you had left the reply to answer your questions, because, obviously - and you know that I have this sensitivity - you did not want to leave it unanswered. So, first of all, in the few and in the short e-mails that it is true that we have exchanged - you know that I am not very in favour of wasting time or wasting time on anyone, then, there are times when a good understanding few words are enough - yes I was saying in one of them - and you will remember - that (does?) of Podemos's proposals it considered that they were unclear in this proposal, and that it considered that they should be raised or not rushed into this initiative, but rather have a different package or package. I was also saying and speaking in that email, that I think it won't matter that (we unveil it?), it was really what I wrote, that the issue of the competence of the Social Dialogue Bureau, which is a tripartite table. In other words, it is true that there are unions, employers and government, and agreements in the field of work... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... the question of the competence of the Social Dialogue Bureau, which is a tripartite bureau, that is, it is true that there are trade unions, employers and government. And agreements in the workplace - and I will always defend it in this House and where I have to defend it - must be the result of collective bargaining and tripartite conciliation. And I believe that this is a very important issue on that issue that you draw out, and that we may possibly agree that it has to do with it, because, and I have it very clearly, it can never impact on the back and shoulders of the worker or the worker his or her training. It is clear that this will have to be agreed upon and formulas will have to be articulated, agreed between employers, trade unions and, of course, the Government, which will also have to push with different measures, possibly also of an economic nature, for that to continue. But I believe that they were left unclear in this debate. I think this is a much more important and much stronger debate. Which, well, maybe someday we can get to have. It is true that you also referred to other issues that had to do with continuous evaluation, etc., etc. That I believe it was a debate that should be placed more in linguistic policies, in the most formative sphere, in order to homogenise them and that they should be equal in all areas - not just in Lanbide, but in Basquetegis, etc., etc. -. That's why I wanted to make it clear. We will be able to agree and we will certainly agree on many of these issues, but I think they deserve an important debate and a debate of their own, and not to be confused in a debate that somehow had a different character. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernandez, I accept your criticism. It may be an ugly detail. Maybe... You're right, it might be an ugly detail. But it is that we endure so many ugly details, that our will, our policy about one thing is so many times questioned and that we have always been listening to that of the hitzak eta ekintzak, that there are times when, as I said before, it does not seem to me critical that one thing goes unilingually in Spanish. But, man, it's that the most demanding of others should be the most demanding of themselves. And with regard to... And to end that. I said in Euskera "elebidunez ere ez", even... Not even bilingual. So, I don't know if it's the nicest detail, but, of course, I think it has to mark a way of doing things between what we say and what we do. And on the subject of today's own. I think... I pointed it out, and I think I pointed it out to you earlier, Mr Alonso, too. Because you have criticized our amendment. And I believe that what our amendment is actually saying is that we must develop what is already being developed both by the Basque Employment Strategy and by the Strategic Agenda of the Euskera. Ms. Ubera, you mentioned your two words about the Euskal Enplegua's strategy doing the good work, the eusus Basque worker. I, this time, must tell you that I don't have that impression. and I think that the good workman is also a Basque, and not one against the other, as it is often heard in political discourses. You said if it's enough to mark it on the strategy. Well, I've told you before: Surely not, but is your proposition sufficient? But I don't want to go in there; I think it's a useless sistra. And in this way, yes, I would confirm the importance of the agreement, not because the agreement is an end, of course not; it is the most important tool, especially on all the matters that are intermediate, because here it must be resilient-I don't know whether it is one of the goals, but whether one of the means be resilient, at last, that our language, which is in a state of weakness, may often lead us to the process of modification. And besides, I think, and I have told you before, there must have been extensive agreements and sactorials. One more thing. I think my answer was that Mr. Alonso gave it because he was now in charge of the negotiation itself. And what I have said about collective negotiations is that I don't know whether you're in favour or not, seeing who you're missing and who you often identify with. No way, I think there's a direction set. As I have often said, it will take more, but the direction is set. And the censures which are often heard from some political discourse, when some are good reasons, I think we have often a tendency to exaggerate. And that, apart from all these, it is the way of agreement, and ought to be the means and means we need in the matter of eupcharation, and in the matters that are intermediate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u59	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. End of discussion, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opposites, 47; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u60	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the Eucan Abertians and the whole correctional corrections signed by the Basque Socialists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 41; contraries, 33; Abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-02.u61	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two.
