ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of Louis Javier Tellerías Eubertarians to the chief physician of the Medical Department, about the prediction of EPE which will be made in the future at Osa. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u1	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. The public institution of fun is the health of the Basques. It is also a member of the public service which the euscals best appreciate. And after all, Osace is a member of every independent examination that is done the most valuable health service in the state. And Osakidetza are their managers, their infrastructures, their buildings, their operating rooms and their modern diagnostic equipment. But, above all, Osakidetza is his staff. The people who every day face the task of getting us out of caring for all of us. Throughout this legislature, we have been listening to and confirming the intentions of the Department of Health for expressly caring for its staff, for trying to provide for layoffs and retirements as soon as possible to cover citizens' demands and, especially during the pandemic period, to increase the workforce in all directions to fight the covid in the best possible way. But to stabilize jobs in the Osata, and to increase the mortars with the reality that has invaded us for two years: With COVID19, and the inability to organize a massive resistance examinations with security health tests. Now, regardless of whether the pandemic is still there, but for the moment much lighter, just for the moment, it seems that the opportunity to move forward with what was standing. And apart from listening to you, Madam Counsellor, who will convene new OPEs this same year, we have been able to know that the Osakidetza sectoral table has given the approval to the stabilization of a significant number of places. We're happy about the news, and at the same time we've got a question about the extent of this stability. So that's why we asked and how far do you and your department intend to apply today's legislation on the way to stabilize the Osalmilla? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u3	Mr. President of the Parliament, President, members of the legislature, all good days. At this point, we are involved in a deep, wide, complex process of stabilizing the plan for members of Osa. to reduce the medium and the provisionalness. This process doubles the commitment to euskal society at the start of Euskal, and to the number of squares in front of the Osapons. Between 2020-20-2024, we were engaged to stabilize with 4000 work calls, and at this point we're above 8000 jobs. The implementation of Law 20/2021 of 28 December of urgent measures for the reduction of the temporality in public employment and its application in Osakidetza was the subject of the sectoral table held last week. The Act sets out three criteria for identifying the positions concerned: positions temporarily and continuously occupied at least in the three years prior to 31 December 2020; positions occupied prior to 1 January 2016; structural vacancies occupied by staff with an eventuality prior to 1 January 2016. In the discussions held with the staff representation at the Osakidetza sectoral table, the stabilization rate of (...) was set at a maximum of 3,723 places. And it is that union participation at the table is fundamental to address issues such as this that directly affect thousands of working people. From now on, once the stabilization rate has been approved and published, the process of defining the general and specific bases for the selection processes begins. The selection system for the identified places, in accordance with Article 2 of this Law, shall be that of competition-opposition. And for the positions identified under additional provisions 6a and 8a will be the merit competition. The call for selection tests must take place before 31 December 2022. Once the call had been made, the selection processes would be resolved, which would have to be completed by 31 December 2024. Apart from the application of the stabilization rate, the most immediate thing at the moment is the implementation of the OPE of the year 2018-2019, which has been realized in two phases. The first, with 1,610 places, whose exams will be carried out on... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... of the OPE of the year 2018-2019 that has been realized in two phases. The first, with 1,610 places, will be held on 18 and 19 June and on 2 and 3 July. The second phase, with 1925 places, is in the process of registration, the deadline is open until next June 2nd. In just two years, 7,258 places to increase the stability of Osakidetza's staff. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Second point on the subject list: "To ask, the measures made by the Congress of the World of Maddalens, to prevent the general impoverishing of society." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u5	gentlemen, good morning to all. Good morning, Mr. President. A friend of mine filled his van in a gas station the other day, paid for his ticket, and received a few minutes later the expense which was offered him a message from his bank. We've come to that situation where gas pumps can take us for a loan at several times. It's not an anekdota. A week ago our colleague, Michael Oster, said that energy expense in the various housing community has been spent for each family within 400 and 500 euros a month. And this doesn't just happen in the energy area, we have a pressure measuring instrument, called KPI, which is generally what tells us that the inflation is at 8%, that is, we've all been impoverished for the last year in 8%. This is true, it's a quick phase of inflation. But if deep inclinations are also behind us, and all this can lead us to a general poverty, at least to be poorer with different effects: For some people this will be a trouble; for others, for those on the frontiers, it will be very serious. Before this and in front of this poor process, what's it like to make fun of you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Good morning, Mr. Casanova. It's been in progress, it's been picking it up, and it's going to keep on taking it to deal with the crisis caused by the Ukranine War. Just like we did to deal with the effects of the pandemia. On April 8th, we reported the measurements in the complete monographic Union. Others: ten million dollars (10 million euros), extra investments (530 million) or tax damage measures (165 million). There are also social aids to strengthen economics, because they strengthen their present employment, and avoid losing their employments. It is true that the young man's unemployment is a problem, but we must admit that there were five years ago 102 thousand young men and that he is now 123000. And as supplementary, to aid the weaker men, we have accepted the ISIURI OF $15 million Euro Fund. They are the help of social tribulations: To ease my extreme poverty, to integrate people with homeless people, to protect the young, to support the weak old people, or to increase the last network. On the other hand, and, as I said, we accepted 44 resolutions at the Full Court of April 8th. 44 resolution 37 already running. It is our commitment, therefore, to accept and put all resolutions in motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u9	jaunak : Mr. lehendakari, I can assure you that I remember well the full monograph on Ukraine and the measures announced there. I suppose you will also have a vivid memory of that same plenary, because there was a very intense debate, but I believe that these measures remain short. Inflation has come to stay. It is true that we now have a cyclical situation that has accelerated and triggered prices, but there are fundamental trends that are serious and that lead us to think that this inflation is going to be lasting. To mention two: one, the scarcity of materials, not only in the energy field; and the other, the displacement of geopolitical centres of gravity that are going to make there more global competitiveness and that there is going to be a displacement of raw materials and resources to other markets. In addition, we have to take into account in this process of widespread impoverishment, which we have already had for several decades in which mechanisms for the distribution of wealth have been substantially altered in favour of the elites, wages have been weakened and tax pressure on the richest has been weakened. And that has meant that of the distribution of GDP, that which corresponds to the income of the labor, is less and more and more the share that the income of the capital is carried. That is why we believe that those specific measures that you stated are not enough and that we need to be more ambitious. And we are going to propose at least five measures that I believe could be the subject of consensus. Firstly, to seek a Basque minimum wage in line with our socio-economic reality. We agree on that in the context of the budgetary agreement, and we believe that we can and should try to materialise it and not leave it in a simple statement. We have to get the wages up. This House declared a few years ago a request for a general increase in wages in a context no more complex or less complex than this. We believe that this Parliament, with all its consequences, and its Government too, must declare the need for a general increase in wages. We believe that specific aid should be increased to the sectors most affected by this inflationary peak, because the effects both on economic activity and on individuals of this inflationary explosion are serious. We believe that public services need to be strengthened in a structural way, because this will prevent the impoverishment of the population by pooling a number of expenses, addressing them collectively in education, care and other essential aspects so that those expenses do not fall on the families and avoid this impoverishment process. And above all, and finally, we believe that our fiscal policy needs to be reviewed. There is a need for a thorough tax reform, which is virtually no longer called into question. Now we're debating which direction this tax reform is going to take, but we understand that in order to finance policies... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... tax. Deep tax reform is needed. That's practically no one's questioning it anymore. The direction in which such tax reform is to be given is now being discussed. But we understand that in order to finance more ambitious public policies, both for the protection of citizens and for economic promotion itself, it is necessary and urgent to reform the tax system to broaden the collection base, and to do so on the basis of asking for more from those who have the most capacity to contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u10	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, you have mentioned our measurements, and I remind you that 44 measures have been approved and that we are running 37 of them. And you plan five measures, and you know that many of these five measures, or some, do not interfere with our powers. Anyway, you were engaged to a society budget that takes you ten euros to eight basic services, Mr. Casanova. And we're fulfilling our commitments, and we're still offering answers to the budget resources we're available to. Of course we understand the gravity of the situation, and we know that the situation can make it worse. That's why we'll continue to answer the needs of the weakest citizens, because that's our priority. We are committed to the Child Guarantee Strategy, for example, and will present concrete proposals to the European Social Fund call (...). We will continue to take measures with a comprehensive view and as complementary aid, as we agreed this Wednesday on the demographic challenge. The main measures affect demographics and the prevention of child poverty in line with the programme of the first thousand days of life promoted by Unicef. An aid of 200 euros per son or daughter, tax deductions, free childcare from 0 to 2 years, rental aid of 275 euros, income guarantee income support for dependent minors. All this, together with the draft law of the Basque system of income guarantee and inclusion, which we have approved and which provides for the support of mothers and retirees, the strengthening of the protection of households with minors, with up to 1,425 euros a month for families without resources. Also, by the Department of Education, canteen grants for children at risk of poverty. It is a network for poverty prevention and assistance to families in situations of greatest vulnerability. Many of them have been approved in this plenary session, also on a case-by-case basis on 8 April, and also before yesterday, aid which the Basque Government is implementing in order of what is also a sustained budget with its abstention, aid which we will continue to supplement and aid which is our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Basque Socialists of the United States, of Tourism, commerce, and Constunum, about the monographical compositions of the Eugrants on the effects of the war in Ukranina, are to aid the trade in accordance with the measures which are articulated." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u13	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. A few weeks ago, on 8 April in particular, a full monograph was held in this House on the measures to be taken by the Government to deal with and protect the Basque economy and citizens from the consequences of the war in Ukraine. We then adopted 44 resolutions, which were intended to minimize the consequences of war in certain sectors, including the trade sector. And two years ago, you assumed political responsibility at the head of the Tourism, Trade and Consumption Council, and you did so in the midst of the pandemic. He then proposed a resistance plan which had two objectives: the maintenance of economic activity and the maintenance of employment. To this end, this plan has been developed with investments of more than EUR 150 million in two years, and it contained ordinary aid and extraordinary aid, with programmes, with projects such as commercial entrepreneurship, aid for the modernisation of commercial establishments, the boost for dynamism and commercial competitiveness. And also new programs such as the Basque Retail School and even the Euskomer and the Berriz company. I would also like to comment that when we were already in that transition towards a phase of recovery for a sector such as trade, which had been very vulnerable, the conjuncture of a war such as that of Ukraine arises; and, in addition, tensions arise in the logistic platforms that hinder and prevent the distribution of raw materials; and there is also an inflationary trend that, logically, affects supply and demand, and more in an important sector such as that of trade. You have always suggested that your management was based on three principles: that of maintaining a constant and permanent dialogue with the sectors within your competence, an evaluation of public policies and the implementation of own policies that are also in line with Europe and the Government of Spain. That is why the Basque Socialists wanted to ask you: what steps will your Department of Trade Support in Euskadi take following the holding of that full monograph on 8 April regarding the consequences for Euskadi of the war in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Indeed, we experience years of great difficulties for local trade. Ukraine's pandemic and investment have added uncertainty to a trade that previously faced major challenges, such as digitization, changes in consumption habits or new forms of payment, among others. In the face of this situation, we are working with the sector to provide structural and robust responses to a trade model that faces, as I said, a necessary and restructuring. A coordinated and shared work that we are developing within the framework of the Basque Trade Strategy 2030. But we must also apply extraordinary measures at this extraordinary juncture as well. And that's how we started it from the beginning of the pandemic. The resistance plan of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption already reaches 150 million, of which 120 have been with extraordinary funds. Because we have faced and will continue to face all the extraordinary programmes needed to support local trade in maintaining its activity and jobs. In this regard, as I have already said, the full monograph of urgent measures in the face of the consequences of the invasion of Ukraine, gathered a battery of measures, with broad consensus and support from parliamentary groups and shared objectives, something that I want to highlight and return to... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... urgent measures in the face of the consequences of the invasion of Ukraine, collected a battery of measures, with broad consensus and support from the parliamentary groups and shared objectives, something that I want to highlight and thank again all the groups, among which were programs focused on trade for 20 million euros. Support for local trade is a firm commitment of this coalition government, and it is so in the day-to-day work with structural measures, but also in all the extraordinary measures that we have deployed. The 5 million of a new edition of the Trade Bonus is already underway, which will put in circulation 500,000 trade bonds from 2 June to 3 July. To this will be added the new aid of 15 million euros to local trade. Direct aid will reach more than 7,000 micro and small businesses in Euskadi, the textile subsectors and household equipment to help alleviate the effects of the crisis by the invasion of Ukraine. As far as direct aid is concerned, it will be published in June, once we have completed all the reports which need to be processed. And with reference to the Euskadi Bono Denda, the deadline of 17 to 27 May for the accession of the trades has been opened, and it can be used, as I said, from 2 June to 3 July. From here, I would like to place local trade establishments, as well as hairdressing, photography, laundry and repair services, and others, in addition to this new edition of the Trade Bonus, which will offer a 30% discount incentive to their customers and boost the consumption of thousands of families. The two previous editions have been very welcoming and have injected more than EUR 12 million into local trade. This third call, as you well know, is being called for with EUR 5 million from the Basque Government, but it is an amount that is increasing thanks to the response of the institutions that are joining. From here, I would like to thank you for your commitment to coordinate and add to your efforts at this time of difficulty for our trade. In short, we will continue to work with institutional policies of entrepreneurship and competitiveness for the consolidation and modernization of the sector, and also with extraordinary measures when necessary, as they are being done in the wake of the war in Ukraine, to continue to guarantee the service to citizens the quality of life and the cohesion of our urban model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, if you're one of Mi's half-castes, together Podemos, a member of the Antices, made to the president about self-reference." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. It's not easy times. A world-wide panic ascent to ultra-right, a war in Europe itself, a frantic crisis. A lot of things are happening, and maybe that's why the auto-organ hasn't been on the political schedule. But if we think about it, maybe that's why it should be self-referred in the political diary. Looking to the consequences which result from all these circumstances, we must see whether we have enough to do with it, to prevent all these problems which our self-interest offers us a sufficient instrument and resources, in order to prevent all these challenges. That's why we think self-organ power should be set up. And that's why I'm asking you if your government thinks the power of the automatically should be set up. Esto es, le pregunto, President, si el Gobierno cree que debiera abrars la poncia de selfgobierno. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Hatch. I gave eleven reasons in March. I'll highlight four for today. I believe that the work done in this legislature deserves confession; that the new proposition ought to be made with as great consent as possible; that it is necessary, by this officer, to establish the institutional attraction of the proposed proposition, and that the members of the community will have a final word, because they must always admit of what the legislative has been proposed by a referendum. Considering these grounds, I proposed a reflection, and I think that reflection remains necessary. We have to share that reflection here. After all, we've had a lot of progress in the previous settlements during these years; and we have a chance to update, to ensure, to increase, to increase the auto-organization. That's my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u21	Thank you. I think we ought to discuss whether the legal police frame we have (...) is enough or not, if that's enough, we should be left as we are. But if it is not enough, then we ought to make a shift to change certain things, to change what is necessary. We share, I believe it is the concern of the citizens in the Basque Country in general, and it is that we are engaged in a deep civilization and we have doubts, we are afraid, we are uncertain about whether the instruments of self-government that we have are sufficient to meet that civilizational challenge and to be able to shield, for example, some rights that have to do with equality, to be able to make a change, an orderly and just energy transition, to know whether we can also do with the instruments of self-government that we have if in the international context in which we live, if it is enough to be able to provide ourselves with sufficient public services, sufficient public health, sufficient public education. All these issues I believe are of concern to the citizenry, also to us. And the question is whether the legal-political framework that we have for our self-government offers us sufficient mechanisms to address all these issues. I often tell you, too, because it is often said that many things cannot be done because we have not enough hands to do it. And sometimes there's doubt whether that's an excuse or whether it's reality... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... that there are many things that cannot be done, because we have not enough hands to do it. And sometimes the question arises whether this is an excuse or a reality. That's why I wanted to tell you... It is not worth insisting on what we cannot do, what is not in our hands. What we have to take into account is what we can do. And what we can do is launch the self-government paper. We are willing to do this, to talk about what, for what and what it takes. But we do believe that the Government must play a leading role and a special role in the implementation of this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Gorrotxategi andrea. Nahikotasuna, self-government, instruments of self-government, sufficiency of them or not. Look, the Statute of Gernika will turn 43 in October. And I share your observation, it must be updated to meet the new needs of society. And I would say more, it must be fulfilled in its entirety, as committed by the Spanish Government itself, of which you are part, more than two years ago. It must conform to the new European reality and offer us more instruments to participate in the integration process, as we have proposed in the vision of Europe's future. It must incorporate guarantees of compliance with the agreement. This reflection has been part of the work of the Self-Government Commission in the last parliamentary term in this Parliament. And I believe that the level of basic consensus reached has been very high. Last January Pilar Garrido said "You will have to look for the limbs for a new pact of coexistence in Euskadi. Let's sit down. "I'm willing," she said. I share it. And also his statement that it says "It is up to Basque society to decide the political future of Euskadi". For this reason, Madam, it is necessary, Madam, to give new advances after the consent of the parties. After all, there is no democratic argument against the decision of the future by liberty of society. It's a discussion, as you have said, for what purpose and how to do it. And this discussion must be here. It is our first decision to agree here in the legislature. It is necessary that we should be exemplary, and that the right of deciding a society of euscals should be a common medium, not a rupture. As the number of works pointed out, we have, I believe, a strong foundation to advance on this road; the character of political tradition of Euskal and the democratic claims of contemporary society. It is therefore a matter of building on the uniqueness of our experience, on the agreements reached and on the political will to deepen the Basque self-government. And I repeat what was also said in March, we must not introduce Basque self-government into a dead alley or leave it parked in a dead lane or agree on something to keep it in a drawer. We have a chance that derives from the work in the paper. And yes, I am in favour of us taking that opportunity. However, I am replying to an issue that falls to you among all Members of Parliament, because this decision remains in the hands of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, the member of the Ciudads, the US funds made for the president in the most effective manner." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u25	Chief of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Mr. President, good morning. President, as you know, we have not discussed the funds in Europe for the first time in this Chamber, which we have made since the beginning of this legislation. And today I have to repeat our concerns. Egia esan, aukera paregabea zirudian frustration handia bilakatzeko bidean dihoa Sánchez Gobernuaren erruagatik. In the hands of Mr Sánchez, European funds can end up in a new AVE. Just as we have accumulated a year and a peak of delay in the high speed for each year of the Sánchez government, the effective arrival of European funds comes with drops, between a rain of declarations, press reports, letters that do not hide the raw reality. The complaint of the Basque Government, with the lehendakari, with you, at the head, is the same - you know it - as that of the majority, let alone of all, the autonomous communities. But here Mrs Calviño, Maroto, the government delegate or the government president himself said in April that they have already arrived, others that are going to arrive or that those funds are already on the way, which, by the way, our industry and companies urgently need. Of course, all this without anything changing in the rate of dripping. So, I'd tell you, it's already starting to sound like hair loss. And the truth is, you don't see the end of the tunnel. So remarkable inability to manage can make us lose the recovery train, as has been causing us to lose the high speed train. The Basques, like the rest of the Spaniards, lehendakari, are the pagans of Mr Sánchez' disastrous management. And I'm very afraid that with Sanchez at the head of the government, the worst is still to come. Fortunately, you have begun, Mr Urkullu, to do what I would ask you in this rostrum a year ago: to deal with projects that cannot be postponed with own funds, given the delay in European funds. And it was the most realistic decision for many months already seen. In fact, there is a distance between the situation that Mr Azpiazu is moving us and the propagandistic balance sheet of the Sánchez Government. That is why I ask you, Lehendakari, how do you assess the management of European funds in terms of their actual arrival in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, sir. You say that European funds are essential for economic and social recovery after the pandemic. Right. It is also true that in Euskadi we have the possibility of encouraging that recovery with own resources, which we already gave in November... in December 2020 the Euskadi Next programme. We have demonstrated this with the investment plan of EUR 530 million from the Basque Government and the deputies. We've advanced the first resources to... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...Euskadi Next program. We have demonstrated this with the investment plan of EUR 530 million from the Basque Government and the Foreign Ministers. We have advanced the first resources to launch Euskadi Next projects, and when European funds arrive, if they arrive, we will be able to accelerate investments. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the first Vice-President has not confirmed the financing of any project. He noted that the projects submitted by Euskadi are aligned with the Losses and with the financing tools available to the Ministries. The truth is that more than seven months have passed since his presentation, and we still do not receive any amount of the recovery and resilience mechanism for the three strategic projects I sent him: advanced therapies, Data Ekosystem and Sustainable Mobility. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u29	Mr. President. The delay is obvious. And it is true that your Government, with you at the head, has not failed to make this clear to you. But the situation is also getting complicated, you will agree with me. I think it's good to try to unlock the situation right now; but for that, instead of pulses to entrepreneurs, you have to give Sanchez a pulse. Sanchez. By word, and above all, by deed. Complaining, claiming to demand, lehendakari is fine; but continuing to be an ally of the Frankenstein government does not seem to be reporting great progress to the Basques in anything. But less than anything in European funds. To overcome new negative impacts, such as those arising from the crisis in energy prices, or from the criminal invasion of Ukraine, European funds are basic, fundamental. It would allow, for example, to lower taxes, as we have been proposing from the People's Party-Citizens. I encourage you to insist on strengthening cooperation with other autonomous communities to seek solutions to this delay. But I also encourage you to make other decisions. A year ago, as I recalled earlier, we asked for a blank b allocating own funds to those projects that I could not continue to wait for the Sanchista bureaucracy. But besides, there are more things we can do. For example, lowering taxes without waiting for European funds. In other words, make use of the economic concert in favor of autonomous companies, of Basque families. The overflowing outcrops in the collection record allow this. Others with less capabilities are already doing it, lehendakari. Nor can we logically expect the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mr Iturgaiz, as much as I try in full after full, I am not going to go into any further discussions, which are concerned on the other hand, and I hope that they will also be sufficiently clarified today. In any case, the question is about European funds, Mr Iturgaiz. And the assessment we can make of the work developed in Euskadi is positive. Priority projects are defined as a shared public-private strategy. They are aligned with the priorities set by the European Union and the Spanish Government itself. These are projects that can be implemented within the set deadlines. We quickly opt for the resources allocated at sectoral conferences by the different ministries, and we are receiving the corresponding grants. And we receive grants from ministries through initiatives linked to complementary R & D plans, or technology centres. This also allows us to move forward in projects such as the Hydrogen Corridor, tourism plans, for example. This positive assessment also has its counterpoint, certainly, because the control and management tool of the MRR is not completed, and we have not received the follow-up report that will make it possible to know the overall management of the funds in relation to Euskadi. More agility in the deployment of funds will be needed, because only three years are available to commit a total investment of €70 billion. Thus, according to the Spanish Government's own stability programme to Brussels, 12,187 million have been paid out, i.e. 23% of the budget for 2021 and 2022. The delay and the need to expedite the implementation of the funds are evident. We have, however, shown three advantages in the management of the Basque Next program, a partnership between foresight, caudation, public and private. Thanks to these advantages, we have been able to maintain our investments without waiting for the European funds to arrive. Our relationship with the European Union and the Spanish Government, the seriousness, the responsibility, cooperation, and pragmatism which we have hitherto preserved. We will continue to maintain a constructive and proactive attitude, because I sincerely believe that this is an opportunity for transformation that we will take advantage of. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, As to Amaia Martín, the Grey-Mutilla Mistina, the member of the Vox team, the President of the President, the President of the United States, the freedom of all parties against the political opposition, the protection of political action, of equality, of peace, and security." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. For years the insistent resistance of Herri Batasuna and his successors to condemn the violence of ETA, to defend political pluralism and to respect the rules of the game, were interpreted as clear signs that the ultra-left abertzale supported the criminal gang and its methods. No democratic force questioned it. None. On April 28, in full ordinary, the four of the cordon, including their party, the PNV, voted against the defense of political plurality. They voted against rejecting any evidence of violence aimed at limiting the right of any party to the free exercise of politics. They voted against shielding that democratic right. And despite the evidence, they are angry when we interpret that voting against everything we raise, it is a sign of support for the use of violence as a weapon to stifle the political adversary. But they wanted us to be understanding with their exercise of manifesto and responsibility. True, we could change the wording, rather than talking about support, it could do so with justification; or accuse them of looking away when the sticks receive others. To be permissive when others are the targets of violence. And if we add to this the shameful follow-up exercise that they do to those who still legitimize the age-old violence, that obscene defense... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... the targets of violence. And if we add to this the shameful follow-up exercise that they make to those who still legitimize the age-old violence, that obscene defense of their party's anti-democratic cordon to Vox, despite the provisions of the Constitutional Court, I raise the following question, Mr Urkullu: do you support the use of violence against the political adversary as a tool to limit the right of all formation to the free exercise of political action on conditions of equality, peace and security?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs Martínez. Mrs Martínez, I will try to tell you with serenity, also with firmness and clarity, because you ask a question on the basis of a previous statement. Not voting in favour of a non-legislative proposal by your party can be presented as support for nothing more and nothing less than the use of violence against the political adversary. Hori, where I bathe the habeto dakizunez, ez da egia. Hori, gezur hutsa da, gezur gaiztoa, gezurraren zuloan zokoratzen zaituena. You do not even insinuate, but openly affirm that the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and Elkarrekin can support the exercise of violence against the political adversary. Similar infamy is based on the fact that these parties have decided not to vote in favour of a proposal submitted by you. I think it has gone too far, and this is intolerable in this freely and democratically elected House of People's Representatives. A Chamber composed of legal political formations, such as yours, Mrs Martínez. Parliamentary dialectics have wide margins for criticism, and even demagoguery. But, honestly, this exercise of manicism, lies and manipulation goes beyond all the limits of decency. Everything has a limit, Mrs. Martinez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u37	Mr Lehendakari, I too from serenity, but without inciting insult as you do, I will tell you that it is an objective fact that Vox cannot make use of the public street without police protection. And you know it. Without exposing the agents of the Ertzaintza, who take care of our security, to the defiance of those who believe themselves with the power to violate our rights and to endanger our integrity and that of the agents themselves. And you know it. It is an objective fact that there are not a few acts of Vox that end with incidents that provoke others, that feed others, that others encourage and summon on their social networks. And you giving it to the button of not supporting this, no matter how much you tell me and talk about demagogy. All this, like the harassment of which PP militants are also victims, and we have very close examples, is something that is happening now, which are not memories of the past. They are threats and attempts of aggression, when not completed aggressions that deserve a strong response from public representatives. His party and partner in government shouted with their silence and their vote in the plenary on 28 April that against Vox and other parties all goes well, that they are not willing to stand up to the violence that is being exercised against us so as not to stain that image that they have been cultivating so deeply since we achieved a seat in this House. Yes, they said without saying, Mr Urkullu, that everything is against us. Mr Urkullu, from the respect I have for you, and you know it, I cannot believe that you do not consider it necessary to put an end to these kinds of practices known to you and your Government. I do not want to believe that it is in addition to violent progressism committed to conditioning the rights of its political opponents, committed to ending political pluralism, which is the essence of democracy. Since we are in this House, we have defended our ideas in an always peaceful way. And our ideas are no worse than those of other political parties, they are different. They may like it more or less than others, but under no circumstances do they deserve violence and persecution. I do not like many of his ideas, such as independence, his speech against the interests of Spain, his contempt for the symbols of Spain, but I would never, ever think of using violence or justifying it to prevent them from spreading or sharing their ideas. Never. Every violent aggression that has suffered any person or political party in this region I have condemned. Mr Urkullu, your vote has consequences, consequences that at some point you will have to assume.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, on some occasion I have also told you that it is exaggeration after exaggeration. Don't you honestly, honestly realize that yours is constant defamation? Look, Mrs Martínez, I repeat this with the same serenity as in the first speech: not voting in favour of a non-legislative proposal from your party can't be interpreted as supporting the use of violence against the political adversary. Planting it like this is simply an indignity that portrays the person who holds it. You mentioned my vote. Look, the lehendakari does so as a parliamentarian, thus taking into account the decisions of the parliamentary group in the ordinary plenary sittings held with votes. The Lehendakari was present, as he tries in the case of all parliamentarians during the whole time of his speech in that plenary. The lehendakari answers the questions you ask in your right. And yet you have received your refusal to meet with him twice. Most of the parliamentary groups were opposed to your initiative not because of the content, Mrs Martínez - although the arguments for defending the non-law proposal could be rebutted in terms of the Party Act and that Euskadi is a province that the Constitution recognizes, as you said - but because of the filibuster attitude of raising an obvious question as a representative of a political formation that advocates the suppression of autonomy and even the illegalization of political formations. The Mixto-Vox group, Mrs Martínez, is the least legitimised to make the rest of the political formations pronounce themselves in something that Vox himself rejects. In any case, I will remind you of what this Parliament approved eight days ago: Parliament lives with concern the rise of the extreme right and neofascism, it confirms its vocation to remain a space... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... to recall what this Parliament adopted eight days ago: Parliament lives with concern the rise of the extreme right and neo-fascism, confirms its vocation to remain an area of freedom, of rational debate; Parliament rejects any expression of violence and discrimination against individuals and groups, expresses its will to continue to fight against social inequalities and to improve and deepen democracy. You rejected this majority agreement. You know why? Because this agreement goes against their xenophobic and harassment speeches directed against migrants and minors who are helpless. It goes against their negationism of gender inequality, violence against women, climate change. It goes against their refusal to participate in a meeting with the Lehendakari or against their proposal to illegalize political formations that are legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interregative, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a popularo-Ciudadan member of the society of the public and the head physician of the Autobernus, about the calling and election of public secretaries of the townships." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Bureau, Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government. Mrs Garamendi, as you probably know in the Budgets Act of 2022, the General Budgets Act of the State, introduced a provision that assigned to Euskadi, and only to Euskadi, the ability, the power to select, appoint, and ultimately recruit those who had so far been designated as national enablers, secretaries, intervenors and treasurers, sometimes - also because of the nature of the function that is often performed - it is usually called intervenor secretaries. This rule, which is included, I insist, in a Budget Act because, according to many of us, it suffers from major defects of unconstitutionality. The rule, as you know, has been appealed to the Constitutional Court, and the High Court is currently examining it. I have already ruled on this issue with legal arguments, which I am aware that your team and you yourself are sure you already know, I will not go too far on them. But I would like to contextualize a little what the situation of these officials is and what this situation we now have can entail. Well, the task of national enablers, as you well know, is very important. The task of staff members in general is very important. We've been talking about this in this legislature. That is why it is absolutely important that civil servants in general, public employees and this type of civil servant in particular have the maximum guarantees of independence and immobility. What is the role of these officials? These officials, secretaries, intervenors and treasurers, are responsible for safeguarding the legality of the day-to-day exercise by local corporations in their activities. Above all it has a very important role to play in controlling expenditure, which is going to be very important, very important, particularly now it is going to increase this situation because of the amount of subsidies and public money that will have to be implemented in the coming years, especially as a result of European funds as well. As Mr Lehendakari says: if they arrive. But, well, let's hope they get here someday. There is always a historical temptation on the part of power, whoever exercises it. There is always a historical temptation on the part of the power to control the organs of control in turn. This is a historic issue that has always been seen especially with the judiciary. It has always been an obsession on the part of all historical governments to have some sort of control over the judiciary, until it was achieved in the twentieth century to establish systems that would constitutionally guarantee the independence of the judiciary. Well, something quite similar is happening with these officials and they must enjoy the maximum guarantees of independence, and above all, their situation must respond to the maximum guarantees of legal certainty. It has been published, Madam Counsellor, that you intend to convene at least 55 places to proceed as soon as possible during this year 2022 - as I have read - to the appointments of such officials in Euskadi. Of course, this situation suggests to me two problems that are very important. Firstly, that there is a logical problem with the way in which we are going and what we are going to demand or are going to demand these officials to carry out their task here in our land, in Euskadi. It has been published, and we go and it is a mark of the house also for its part, the demand of a very high level of Basque for this type of officials. Of course, demanding a high level of euskera from these types of officials, especially when they have come from being a corps of national officials, who on the other hand ensured that we could have the best, the best, acting in this delicate task poses a problem and it is that they can remain, as in fact they have been happening, vacancies. Vacancies may remain that may ultimately have to be filled in accordance with procedures that do not guarantee the irremovability of such staff members. Therefore, it is quite possible, Madam Counsellor, I believe that you and your team have appreciated this, you will have appreciated it, that we have enough of these officials, secretaries, agents and treasurers in a situation, let us say on a temporary basis, let alone on an interim basis. This is a problem I see. The second. Look, this legislature, counselor, has started being the public employment legislature, I don't know how it will end, but it is being the public employment legislature. When we have been dealing with both the Public Sector Bodies and Scales Act and later recently the Public Service Act, I have heard the most of the words I have heard from the spokesmen of the groups supporting the Government and specifically in the majority group of the Government, Basque Nationalists, namely that legal certainty must be respected. All actions must be carried out with the utmost respect for legal certainty. Of course, and this also makes me ask you one thing, you counsel, that if you now convene these places and then in the future of the Constitutional Court declares them unconstitutional, that we are acting here, we are acting respecting legal certainty. There's a serious problem here. If there is a rule that is appealed and if the Constitutional Court follows its own doctrine, it probably declares unconstitutional... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... legal certainty. There's a serious problem here. If there is a rule that is appealed and if the Constitutional Court follows its own doctrine, it probably declares unconstitutional, of course, what will happen to the appointments you make under this rule that you have declared unconstitutional? Is this about respecting legal certainty? We can have a very serious problem, a very serious problem; above all we can have a very serious problem with regard to the validity of those appointments and the very important actions that these officials have to perform, which are, logically, unpleasant. Because, as we all know, these officials are the ones who have to face public managers every day to say: listen, maybe this spending cannot be done, this must be done in this way, it cannot be as the mayor wants in this case, it must be done in this other way. I mean, they're very important control organs, as you well know, counselor. For all this, taking into account these problems of legal certainty, Mrs Garamendi, taking into account the loss of independence, the loss of the guarantees of independence that can be produced, it is for this reason that I call you today: Is it really your government and your department's intention to appoint these officials - secretaries, interveners and treasurers - before the Constitutional Court pronounces itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician, good morning. Congressmen, good morning. Mr. Gordillo, you're asking me about your intention to pick up official jobs and name them. The wager of this administration is, no doubt, a reduction of the provisionality, and we are designing stable stabilization processes in all sectors, you said. In that block, our commitment is also going with local administration officials who have a national subject. Indeed, in that collective that has the purpose of your interpretation. But before you enter too far on this subject, let me say that the 7/85 laws of April 2, which regulate the principles of the rule of place, imposes upon it the additional regulations of the second part, that this general administration belongs to this general administration, on the one hand, on the other, to accept the public offer, and, on the other hand, to call the election. You say, on your initiative, that the Budget Act included a provision giving the Basque Government the possibility of appointing and selecting the so far national officials. Allow me to stop at this statement, as I think it is necessary to make a preliminary clarification before proceeding to answer the question. The wording given by the first final provision of Law 22/2021 of General Budgets of the State for the year 2022 to the second additional provision of the Law of Bases of Local Regime does not alter the powers that the Autonomous Community has held with respect to the civil servants of national character since 2017, 2007 pardon. The reason is that the adoption of Act No. 27/2013 of 27 December 2013 on the rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, unlike the rest of the autonomous communities, did not entail any modification for Euskadi. In this regard, since 2007, in place of the organs of the State, these powers would be assumed by Euskadi, either by its common institutions or by its outside institutions, as established by autonomous rules. This is due to the existence of historical rights recognized in the first additional provision of the Constitution as well as in the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. I would like to remind you that it was already mentioned at the time that all the powers provided for in Article 92a of the Local Regime Basics Act in respect of such personnel would be assumed in the terms laid down in the autonomous regulations. The amendment made by the last Law on General Budgets of the State implies only a concretion and breakdown of these powers, which in the drafting prior to the amendment was summarized in the invitations to tender for the vacancies in the latter, as well as the appointment of official staff in those competitions. In any event, that the exemplification did not cover all the powers provided for in Article 92a and that the provision recognized it. This new wording does not mean breaking with anything or creating a differentiated body, since we find ourselves with basic regulations. What the rules allow, and allow, is that in the context of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, those powers provided for in the basic rules are exercised by the competent institutions, in the terms laid down in the autonomous rules. We are witnessing – I believe – an artificial and interested controversy. You, Mr. Gordillo, like other coffee lovers for all, seem to be far from that competitive symmetry that derives from the Constitution. That is why it will allow me to remind you of the legal basis 26 of the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 214/89, referring to constitutional remedies brought by the Galician Parliament, the Galician Council, the Executive Council of the Government of Catalonia and the Parliament of Catalonia. And I quote: "For its part, the Law on Local Regime Basis in the second additional provision has not done anything but serve the constitutional mandate itself, preserving the very uniqueness of that foral regime in the organizational aspects, in terms and with a scope perfectly compatible with the Constitution itself. Therefore, the appellants cannot claim that the rights granted to the historical territories are extendable to the communities of Catalonia and Galicia simply because they have assumed identical competences as the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in the field of local regime, given the particular or exceptional nature of the rights granted to the historical territories which is aimed, as the Constitutional Court judgment 76/88 has already pointed out, at ensuring a treatment..."... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... to the historical territories which, as the Constitutional Court judgment 76/88 has already pointed out, aim to ensure a unique legal treatment of this local regime, even vis-à-vis the central powers of the State". That's the literality of the sentence, Mr. Gordillo. The best thing I can tell you is that you interpret and apply the Constitution as it suits you at every moment. And it's that I don't know why strange phenomenon, but it usually happens that those who brag as the greatest advocates of constitutional legality sometimes become their greatest enemies. It happened and will happen with the Economic Concert; it happened, it happens and it will happen with the competences contained in our Statute of Gernika, and it has been happening and will continue to happen, the fact that there is no way to make you understand that our self-government and our historical rights are part of the constitutional bloc. If he is a constitutionalist, he should have no choice but to surrender to that evidence. Everything I have just indicated is objective and easily contrastable. However, it has been the subject of controversy in certain homes, and as you have pointed out, it has been the subject of both unconstitutionality appeals by Vox and the People's Party, firm defenders, as you said before, of the Constitution. In view of the fact that these are remedies affecting the autonomy of the Basque Autonomous Community, I considered it necessary to refer to the Governing Council a proposal for an agreement authorizing the department which I address to apply to the Constitutional Court, and through the Central Legal Service, for the Basque Government to appear as an aid to the Spanish Government in order to defend the constitutionality of the provision under discussion. It is the duty of the Government to defend Basque self-government, and on this occasion, as in many others, we will do so again. But, right now, we also have another reality, which you forget, or, at least, propose that we put aside. We have an obligation to comply with the provisions contained in Law 2021 on Urgent Measures for the Reduction of Temporaryity in Public Employment. And this must be done within the time limits laid down in it; that is, the Basque Government must approve and publish the public employment offers of the Basque Autonomous Community for the stabilization of civil servants before 1 June 2022. In addition to a legal obligation, it is an obligation we have towards this group of public employees. In this regard, I would like to inform you that next Tuesday I will present to the Governing Council the offer relating to local government staff with national qualifications. In second intervention, I will talk about the subject of language profiles. I don't have time now. The above-mentioned remedies will follow their course, but at the moment there is no suspension or limitation on the part of the Constitutional Court so that this Government can develop the powers it has recognized by law. That said, and in response to his inquiry, this Government is obliged to address this process in time and form, and that is what we are going to do. I hope I have satisfied your concern.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u45	Thank you very much, Counsellor, for your explanations. Man, rather than satisfy my anxiety, I think it has deepened in them. His arguments have basically been three: first, let everything remain the same. I believe that this is not true, otherwise, there is a provision that clearly modifies what is the situation and the capacity of the Basque Government to select this type of..., to select and appoint precisely this type of civil servant from (?)national empowerment. His second argument has been that we have a situation that is special, it speaks of historical rights, the first additional provision, and that therefore, we and others do not try to bring this back to whether it is a competition symmetry or not, or that coffee for all. But this is not a third-rate issue that gives your fundamental argument of self-government, this is not a question of self-government, Mrs Garamendi. This is a question of control, it is a question of ensuring controls as best as possible. And what is demonstrated by the cases we have had, many of the cases we have had, and some here also in this Historical Territory in Alava, is that what needs to be done is the opposite, it is precisely to promote control systems. If you believe so much in self-government, Counselor, will you then delegate to the outlaws the ability to appoint these national enablers? No, right? Of course, because, counselor, it's more than proven, this on your team sure there are people who know, although I don't know if you hear much. The organs, and in particular the supervisory officials, must enjoy the maximum guarantees of independence, and therefore their position, that their professional working situation does not depend either remotely, or even politically, on the membership of the same political party, of the body that appoints them. That is what we have to do: to ensure the maximum independence of these officials. Look, counselor, if you have time this June, I invite you to come... well, let the organizers invite you to the annual COSITAL Congress, which, as you know, is the national organization of secretaries, intervenors and treasurers, which is to be held in June. Do you know how they put it, how they called their annual congress?: National empowerment, foundation of the rule of law in the local administration. There are 5,000 members, and logically, this provision that has been collated, as is always done in this country, through the Budgets Act there with nightiness, lightness. Nightly, moreover, because it is usually in the night already almost before the New Year, it has left this collective, but above all, it has left this function, which they have to perform in a situation, listen, again knocked out. There has already been an attempt, in fact, to establish a transfer at that time to all the autonomous communities, and finally, that was reversed. But it is that I again insist, counselor, you try to bring this back to a matter of self-government that, by the way, it would be interesting to know in what effective provision of the Statute you anchor this... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] But it is that I again insist, counselor, that you try to bring this back to a matter of self-government which, by the way, would be interesting to know in what effective provision of the Statute you anchor this. Because, listen, I have read the Statute several times and the truth is that this is nowhere to be seen as a competition of my own. Of course there has to be collaboration between administrations. Of course. But it is that this type of civil servants, in order to enjoy the maximum guarantees, which has been proven historically, because it is a body that already has almost two centuries, with the different modifications, logically, that there has been, is that they have made it possible to guarantee, at other times, a minimum, today, of legality and control in the exercise of precisely what are the public powers and specifically in what is the control of the very important expenditure in the local entities and in the legality of the actions of the public administration itself. That's why I think, aside from this, counselor, is that it's quite contradictory with what you've been defending... We'll see about your group if there's a motion. But above all with what his Government stands for. No, no, we will wait to have everything tied and well tied in terms of legal certainty in order to proceed to the calls for competitions, etc., to consolidate employment. Okay. Okay. Let's do it like this. I've supported you in commission to do that. But, man, following the same argument, if you now... That, in fact, the law allows you, you can do it. It's not suspended. And you already know that unless it is the President of the Government who makes the appeal of unconstitutionality the rule is not suspended. But as the Constitutional Court later states that the rule turns out to be unconstitutional, all the actions that have been carried out by the officials you name under this legislation, this legality, it turns out that they will be questioned before the courts. And, counselor, it's everyone's money, it's public money, it's recovery money. I therefore ask you, Madam Counsellor, to reconsider it and to maintain, at least until there is a ruling from the Constitutional Court, your intention to provide for a definitive call for these places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u47	Mr. Gordillo. Yeah. Although I have explained to you that it is not the assumption of new faculties but the exemplification of those already recognized, you continue in your thirteen, trying to mix some things with others. As I pointed out in my first speech, there is no more wax than it burns. Nocturnality and lightness, he said in his speech. It addresses the existing legislation and regulations governing matters relating to local government staff with national qualifications, and may see that these powers were already recognized previously. And I'm going to give you a couple of examples. As I have mentioned before, with the entry into force of Law 27/2013, on rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, the broad powers granted to the autonomous communities in the area in question were abolished. However, expressly in relation to the second additional provision of the Local Regime Basis Act, the Act continued to guarantee the powers of the Basque Autonomous Community under the first additional provision of the Constitution. Another example. The content of the second additional provision of the Local Regime Basis Act, such as the second of the consolidated text of the Basic Staff Regulations in relation to Euskadi, corresponds to the third additional provision of Royal Decree 128/2018, which regulates the legal regime of local government officials with national status. It states in text: "The application of this royal decree in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country shall be carried out in accordance with the second additional provision of Law 7/85, of 2 April, of the regime... Regulator of Local Regime Bases. In such a way that all the powers provided for in respect of local government officials with national qualifications shall be exercised by the competent institutions which establish the autonomous rules." Unlike what it has intended to imply, this Government is acting within its assigned area of competence no more or less. And yes, Mr. Gordillo, it's also a question of (...?) Self-government. As I indicated in my first intervention, the responsibility for carrying out the stabilization processes for posts reserved for local government staff with national qualifications rests with the Basque Government. And that's what we're going to do, because nothing prevents it and, above all, because it's our obligation. You seem to want to forget our determined commitment to reducing interinity in the Basque administration. A bet that is not from now on, but comes from behind, with additional provisions, which he has mentioned, both in the Police Act and in the Bodies and Scales Act. I would not like to forget the question of the Basque language which you mentioned in your first speech, as, on the other hand, everything is said, which has been customary in your speeches. He has tried to align his opposition discourse by bringing up topics related to linguistic profiles. I remind you of what the Basque Civil Service Act provides: "The allocation of a linguistic profile to each of the existing jobs in the Basque public administrations, as well as their date of preceptivity, will be carried out by the respective governing bodies". And in the case of the establishment of linguistic profiles, as well as the dates of preceptivity, it is up to the local authorities, not the Basque Government. The Basque Government will therefore take into account the profiles and dates of preceptivity assigned by the competent local authorities. But please don't use it to the eucalyptic as a political weapon. We're in another phase of living, respecting our language. And as for the Administration, we look at the excellence of the service in both languages. In the end, it's all the right thing to do, you know, we're gonna have to go through these national business officials' proceedings. And it would be rash not to answer our duty. So, as I said, we'll move on with our call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, José Manuel Gilegas, the popular team of the Ciudadans, a member of Economics of Economics and Environmental Department of Economics... " [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... The parliamentary members of the Manuel Gil Vegas Euscal Group, Ciudadanos, made for Economics of Economics, patience, and Environmental Division, in the vicinity of which the Amazon refused to give up a logistical center of the Obite. " Mr. Gil, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. When in November 2020 we learned of Amazon's intention to set up a large logistics centre in the Gipuzcoana town of Oiartzun, those who want Basque citizens to have jobs and be able to progress we are, logically, happy with the news. But the joy lasted little, because two months later we saw that the 17 councillors of the same city, belonging to Bildu and the PNV, approved a motion opposing this arrival. Apparently, those who claim to love this land so much and its inhabitants did not want for them a new opportunity of employment and wealth that many other localities do long for. In July 2021, we learned about the Oiartzun City Council's manoeuvres to delay the project as much as possible by putting administrative obstacles. And they finally got it. Finally, on 12 May, we learned that they had managed to get Amazon to give up installing its logistics centre in Oiartzun, and that, in passing, the company had transferred to the funds and agents with which it works that would exclude for future projects localities governed by EH Bildu. This represents an important loss of wealth and employment for Euskadi, and I therefore ask you, Counsellor, what steps your department will take to prevent this situation from being repeated in future in municipalities governed by political forces that put its ideology and its delirious projects of national construction ahead of the interests of Basque citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u51	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Gil, this government has known through the media the decision taken by Amazon to renounce that logistics facility in the municipality. I will also tell you that the department has had no connection with the project in terms of administrative procedures, since, first of all, the land to which it refers in the operation is a private land. The possible location was decided between Amazon and a moving transport company; therefore, a private decision as well. In addition, from the Basque Government, from Sprilur and from the environmental body, a report had to be issued. Therefore, administrative decision only in the hands of the town, the City of Oiartzun. We also know from the media, above all, that the process has been complex, that it has certainly been very intense, and with an end that the Government does not celebrate in any way. There is no reason to celebrate the loss of jobs, jobs in our country. We can talk about whether this operation fits into our productive model or not. And, of course, a logistics facility in an area dedicated to logistics activity is fully compatible with our activity. And so it must be considered. But Amazon, with a private decision, has decided to leave this location. And that decision has been held by many agents of the municipality. It is not our vision, because the Amazon model is going to remain alive, its impact on small business is going to remain the same there is this logistic activity in Oiartzun, Burgos or any other locality, because it is an established model. And, of course, what it is not going to do is impact equally on the possible job creation that existed in Oiartzun at that time. And from that point of view we are talking about quality jobs, which is what we want to put into operation, which is what we want for the most part. But there are people who cannot access these jobs, these jobs and who, of course, a job in a logistics activity could be a way out of their profession. We will therefore continue to defend logistics activity as an important part of our economic and industrial development.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u53	Thank you, Counselor. I am very glad that you are not celebrating it, and I am very glad that you also consider it perfectly compatible and that you are not in favour of losing your job. The only thing I have to remind you is that some of the councillors who voted in favour of this exit were from their own political party, the PNV. And, well, I hope we haven't definitely missed the opportunity to have Amazon, because you were right when you said that if they didn't settle here they were going to do it somewhere else, I just said it a moment ago; since the Basques want to buy freely on Amazon, they're going to continue to do it, and that's obvious that it doesn't involve any attack on local trade, as some of them argued. What is at stake here is not whether people buy their computer in the nearby store, but whether the logistics centers have them here or in Navarre, in La Rioja or Burgos. But this goes beyond Amazon. What impression do other companies have of our land when they see the problems Amazon has encountered? Your department has a responsibility to send a message of tranquility, legal security and appeal from Euskadi. And I would suggest that you do your best to remove the administrative barriers that depend on you, that you make taxation more attractive and that you minimize Bildu's influence on Euskadi's economic policy. Let's remember that they are your current budget partners, and that PNV, PSOE, Bildu and Podemos are all you cross-partners in Madrid and here. And can you transfer an attractive message to companies and investors with these partners who have celebrated the news in networks? Mrs Tapia, you know that we are a responsible group and that we believe in economic freedom and job creation. Therefore, you can count on us in that task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u55	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. First of all, Mr Gil, the weight of every political force gives us citizenship with its votes. I therefore believe that we need to be aware of this, and, in the interests of freedom and democracy, we need to consider and work on it. On the subject of logistics centers, obviously, I told him that it is part of our productive model, since all the raw materials we need to address different processes have to be located somewhere, and it is usually in a logistics center. And once the productive process is over, well, that just in time system is also being questioned after the whole covid crisis and the war crisis in Ukraine right now, and therefore the logistics centers are essential. There is already an Amazon center in Euskadi, so they know how we work and what is the appeal in this case. But there are also logistics activities and important logistics centers recently inaugurated here, very close, in Vitoria, by... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... but there are also important logistics activities and logistics centers, recently inaugurated here, very close, in Vitoria, by Lidl, by Grupo Uvesco, by Grupo Mercadona. Well, I think we're logistically attractive, there are companies that are being located, and therefore we have to continue in that direction. Anyway, Amazon has made a decision knowing what Euskadi looks like, not that it doesn't know how we work, its reasons it will. And of course, it abandons Oyarzun, which is one of the municipalities, by the way, with one of the largest concentrations of shopping centers in all of Euskadi. It welcomes them, it welcomes that job without any difficulty. I therefore understand that logistical activity is also relevant to job creation, and there should be no difficulty in hosting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, Muriel Larre Lasoa, Popularo-Populara-Ciudadans-made by Economics of Economics, patience, and the Chief of Environmental Division, to protect the coast of the sea." Miss Larre, the word is yours, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u57	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Madam Counsellor, you will have noticed that we have been following closely the steps that have been taken with regard to the care of the marine environment lately. The last time I asked you about this, you responded to me with plans for the collection of plastics and waste that existed by the Department of the Environment. And I'm going to give you an example. However, a few months ago, who had to pick up the garbage from the Urumea River was the San Sebastián City Council Brigade, the Municipal Brigade. I want to talk to you about something different today. In 2010, the Department of the Environment sent a report to discuss how the Jaizkibel Marine Corridor should be protected. What assessment does your Department make of the actions that have been taken with regard to the Jaizkibel Seaway?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Muriel. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Larrea, the Basque Government knows that it declared Jaizkibel a special conservation area, ZEC, belonging to the Natura 2000 network in 2013. The environmental objective pursued is to protect a number of habitats within coastal communities - both on the cliff and in the Jaizkibel area itself - and that, of course, among other actions provided for in those documents, what was envisaged was the management of this space, which would include, to the extent possible, and by each of the competent administrations - both the General Administration of the State and the Basque Government and, where appropriate, the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation - the implementation of the necessary procedures to ensure that the area... I read the text: "the marine environment of Ulia and Jaizkibel, based on the important values of biodiversity it possesses, has an adequate figure of protection". That's what they said. In order to fulfil the same objective, within the framework of the relevant dossiers, the Basque Government was requested in 2013 to study and evaluate the proposal, so that it could be considered adjacent to the whole protected area as an area that would have to have a special configuration, a special protection without defining what it was. Although this request was reiterated on many occasions, the response was received in 2019, and it was mentioned that we needed to submit supporting reports on this request. To this end, as a result of an agreement with the Elkarrekin Podemos group in the year 2020 in Budgets, the corresponding work was initiated to prepare this report and to process it to the Ministry. This process was carried out, this information was sent to the Ministry, and on 1 December 2021, since MITECO, a report was sent to the Department by the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, where it was said - textual again - "that the concept of ecological continuity is not sufficiently demonstrated for any of the aspects discussed in the report, with more emphasis being placed on how the marine environment represents an added value to the already protected terrestrial part". But bearing in mind that the content guide to be developed in those reports does not contain that concept in any way, what we have done is to show a disagreement and to analyse, or to be analysed by the Ministry, that this report received is considered, to the extent that it is to be considered, in accordance with that content guide, and that the report appropriate to the preparation that has been made is sent. And we still don't have an answer to it. It has therefore been processed according to all the most appropriate parameters.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u61	Thank you very much, Counsellor, for the information you have provided. He knows that we have recently processed from our group the request to obtain that report, that last report that has been sent to the IOE, the Spanish Institute of Oceanography. And above all, it emphasizes the value of protecting that corridor, especially to increase biomass, and especially because it would reverse in our campaigns any kind of protection in those coastal areas where the increase in biomass occurs for future campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u63	It is simply to point out that all the relevant procedures have been carried out. Let us hope to receive a reply from the appropriate Ministry to the report that has been sent, which I believe is a comprehensive report. And, of course, to make it clear that, for our part, as the Basque Government, we have carried out all the appropriate tasks to achieve that protection, that we do not know whether it will be of one type or another, but, well, according to the replies received, it does not seem to be easy to achieve it. But we will continue our work in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidedez Hidalez Together Podemos-Nozzeral members of the Animations made by Economism and the chairman of the Environmental Department, the use of the public money to make a new building in Donostian Bastiansque Culinary Center." Mr. Hernandez from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u65	Bai, Tapia andrea. Sailburu. The Basque Government, together with the Deputy of Gipuzkoa, will allocate a total of 24 million euros of public money to the new project of the Basque Culinary Center in the neighborhood of Gros de Donostia, which will basically consist, will consist, in a new building whose main activity will be that of a private university... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...to consist of a building whose main activity will be that of a private university. In addition, for this project, the Municipality of Donostia will also give way to public land. It is a project that is going to entail the loss at this time of more than 7,000 square meters of green space, and a radical limitation of the possibility of developing public housing in the neighborhood with the highest population density of the whole of Euskadi and in the city, as you know well, with the highest housing prices of the whole State. This is, therefore, in our view, an important disbursement of public money. We are talking about 24 million euros of public money plus the transfer of land by the city council, all governed by the same parties, from which, in our opinion, an elite university will benefit fundamentally in this case, and which will have negative consequences for the citizenship of Donostia. That is why we ask them whether they really believe that this important disbursement of public money responds to the general interest, to the public interest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. First of all, Mr Hernández, I think we are going to clarify concepts. Basque Culinary Center is a foundation that in addition to university training activities has other activities related to innovation, research, a technology center and entrepreneurship. Therefore, that building that has been presented and that is going to start working on it is not dedicated to the training part, but is dedicated to everything else. So that's what I think is a lot of reading about this investment, but I think we're in front of an important decision, it's a big investment, it's true. There,sque Culinary Centor also makes investments. So, I love you and they and... He's responding to a popular strategy. A public strategy, in what way? Well, if we need really healthy food, reformers and companies, such enterprises are necessary. We take the entire chain of food, and we forget about agriculture, fishing. And even in that case, the corporations we use in the nutriment, and even those who make transformations when they're used in transformation, need innovation, and the last step would be gastronomy. And I think that at this moment Basque Cullary Centente doesn't put a fireelto in motion, but in its whole project and in its popular strategy it's going to start a project. What's going to set us up in the world, like Basque Culinary Center. And again I repeat, not only following this reputation, but following the initiative itself and the duties to be done. We're talking about the futures, bringing people together, creating new corporations, and creating new jobs. In what field besides? Well, in a field of precursor Basquedi: gastronomy. Always considering, I repeat, not just gastronomy, but that the entire supply of food will be set in motion, but... "Y también decir que ese edificio se ha pensado de una spermifica para pueda ser aprovechado pori el endo uncomorta de vista de provechamento de una de sperciento de spercimito." It will therefore meet a dual objective of attraction, retention of talent, elaboration of new ideas, start-up of new businesses, top-level entrepreneurship, innovation, technology and at the same time that citizens can use it. It is undoubtedly a project that has a future and that we consider to be of vital importance to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u69	Of course, if so, we do not share the country project. It does not happen in the explanations that you give for the impulse of gastronomy, for a project of these characteristics that will involve a very important disbursement of public money and that, let us not be fooled, it passes through the construction of a building that will be of fundamentally private use, that will use it fundamentally an elitist university that is giving the courses related to the gastronomy to which you have referred to the price of 9,500 euros the tuition. Popular prices and that will be installed, and this is what worries us most, in the neighborhood of Gros de Donostia, in a fundamental space for the city. The project will entail the loss of those 7,500 square meters of green space in a neighborhood that is in need of green space. It is going to assume that public housing projects cannot be developed in a neighborhood that is being taken by a vulture fund, the vulture Azora fund, which has long been made with a multitude of floors in that neighborhood, which is expelling people from their homes and which is going to mean a new elitization of the city of Donostia. The city that has more hotels per square meter than Madrid or Barcelona, the city that is expelling people, neighbors and neighbors from its neighborhoods. We don't share that project, Mrs. Tapia. We think this is an elitist project for which a lot of public money is going to be put, and we think that this is not the country policy that neighbors and neighbors need, in this case in the neighborhood of Donostia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u71	Mr. Hernandez, I understand you don't share it. It's your decision. However, you may doubt that an institution, such as the Basque Culinary Center, which already has an important track record, has not meant a return to this country of undeniable character can not call it into question. And since you didn't want to hear me, college education is still in the same place as it is right now. This centre is dedicated to entrepreneurship, development and innovation, technology, talent attraction in a city like Donostia, which, by the way, is also a city of innovation. And that we do not want it to be relegated only to that place where tourists come, but that technology at the service of this country's industry reaches each and every sector. And that of food, food transformation and gastronomy have much to say. And more so when we are working for a much healthier diet, a different diet, a more sustainable diet and where all these activities are going to have a place in Donostia-San Sebastián. I think the benefit that will be achieved is undeniable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interpelation by Amania Martíne, the Greysthale Mistea, the parliamentary members of the Vox team, made to the Chief of Economics and Ogas..." [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interfection, Amaia Martín, Greyisha Mistto-Fox members made to Economics and Ogas's Chief of the Renastic Department, which is different from that of the Euscal provinces of Eusk's Acid, the way in which the Euskalka is to guarantee the equality of all the citizens." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u73	Thank you, Madam President, good morning to you all again. It is important, first of all, to recall that Ticket Bai is a shared initiative between the three outlaws and the Basque Government, which states that it aims to establish a number of obligations, so that, from its entry into force, all natural and legal persons engaged in economic activity in the Basque Country, regardless of their volume, must use billing software that meets the technical requirements of the Basque administrations. The new system theoretically aims at controlling the income from the economic activities of taxpayers, and in particular from those activities framed in sectors that deliver goods or services to final consumers, which are largely cash-collected. Similarly, this information will be used to facilitate taxpayers' compliance with their tax obligations. In appearance, the objective of the Bai Ticket can be appropriate if we perform a rough analysis of the implementation proposal. No one questions the desirability of strengthening the fight against tax fraud, but there are issues that we have not shared since Vox, and I would start by saying that it is actually a computer-based system of control over taxpayers, control from outside finances. As I said, no one can question the need to narrow the circle of tax fraud, but both the model and the forms and the collective on which the focus is placed should be different. It seems to us to be an exercise of abusive and disproportionate control over the corporate fabric, establishing preventive prejudices, focusing on small traders, especially those who place the suspicions of tax fraud. The General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union in its Article 2.2 excludes from its scope the processing of personal data carried out by a natural person in the exercise of exclusively personal or domestic activities. And it must be stressed that the Bai Ticket, without doubt, involves interference and interference in citizens' buying habits, and in our view, exceeds the information necessary to combat tax fraud. He is a kind of big brother who has access to more information than they really need to carry out proper monitoring. There is a need to establish a system to reconcile and ensure that citizens' privacy is compatible with the fight against tax fraud. If we cross and overflow certain lines that safeguard the privacy of citizens, we run the risk of breaking a basic and fundamental right of our rule of law. From this group we believe that the fight against tax fraud must have limits that safeguard, in any case, the private habits of buying Basques, so let us be cautious, excessive zeal, control and control cannot violate fundamental rights protected by law. But this is not the only issue that we cannot share with the drivers of a measure that, far from ensuring equality, fosters inequalities, despite having been driven by an administration, the Basque Government, which should represent all equally. Despite this, its implementation is subject to all kinds of inequalities. It serves as an example that the times of its operationalization will be different in each territory. In Bizkaia, the implementation of this system will be delayed until 2024; in Álava, it will be implemented in 2022; in Gipuzkoa, on the other hand, the calendar is different, although it coincides with Álava when it completes its implementation throughout this year. It therefore draws attention to inequality, clear inequality and the lack of digital harmonisation on this issue. It makes no sense for the system to be implemented and demanded in a momentary use at different times of time, since the fight against tax fraud does not understand the times, but according to the dates indicated, it seems that this battle against tax fraud is more urgent in Álava and Gipuzkoa than in Bizkaia. If the system is really going to be as effective as you announce, the start of its application should be harmonious, because the opposite assumes that there are territories where defrauding will be more accessible; therefore, harmonize the times if you really bet on this model. But de-harmonisation is not limited only to the temporary sphere, also the tax section. There is a total mismatch between territories, where we find notable differences in all the aid to be provided. The system of tax deductions in the company tax and the IRPF is chosen, and in Vox we consider that it is not the most appropriate system. The differences, as I have just commented, are very remarkable. The percentage deductible in Bizkaia in the abovementioned taxes is 30%, while in Gipuzkoa it is 60%. In Álava, initially the deduction is 30%, but if the implementation of the system is one month in advance of the mandatory date, the deduction would then be 60%, to what are these differences?, what is achieved with them, besides generating confusion, and in some cases comparative aggravations? And what about access to extra aid of 1,200 euros for those companies and businesses that issue their invoices in Basque, this only in Gipuzkoa. It is a misconception of the approach, but it is even more so than not common to the three provinces, one more misconception. They are an element of inequality and fiscal deregulation. We live in a region where we have bodies and tools to guarantee the fiscal equality of all Basques, and sincerely believe that the diversity of tax deductions offered by the three outlying estates abound in a fiscal gap that we do not share. Of course, the initiative does not surprise us, but we consider it absolutely unacceptable. It undoubtedly responds to this obsession of Basque nationalism to try to impose its linguistic policies with a shoemaker, also in the fight against tax fraud, the imposition of Basque in all fields. Mr Azpiazu, tax fraud does not include languages. This, as I have already mentioned, seems unacceptable to us, and it is because it pretends that because a trader uses a language, he can receive a subsidy of more than 1,000 euros, which are denied to anyone who uses this other language in the Basque Country, so it is absolutely unacceptable. We can complete the worsening of inequalities with another chapter, and we return to Gipuzkoa, where the implementation of the Bai Ticket will not be mandatory for people over 60, something that has not been raised in the rest of the provinces. And there's the mistake, the comparative aggravation, because the measure is reasonable, but not exclusivity... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... years, something that has not been raised in the rest of the provinces. And there's the mistake, the comparative aggravation, because the measure is reasonable, but not exclusivity. One more proof that we are actually talking about three different initiatives and not a common one for all entrepreneurs and traders in the Basque Autonomous Community. And I explain to myself, it makes sense that there is an exemption for people over the age of 60, provided it is widespread in the three provinces, because many people of a certain age find it difficult to handle computer tools. We cannot deny reality, and this indicates that there is a generational digital divide that is not alien to any of the territories. In short, the extension of this system is a song again to inequality. And it is a bet on inequality also in terms of the funding model. Deputies and the Basque Government have opted for this model of deductions, forcing those affected to advance investments ranging between 500 and 4,000 euros, depending on the type of trade. The reality of the sector in which the TicketBAI is applied is of enormous diversity. There are businesses that don't have access to the Internet because they don't need it, because they don't have computer elements, because they don't need it, or because they don't know how they work, even they don't have an adapted registry machine. And as a result, catching up will be much more expensive for some than for others. Let us not forget that TicketBai is an imposition by the administrations, an initiative that should cost the administrations themselves. How does the Basque Government and the Foreign Ministers justify forcing traders who have never defrauded the Treasury to take on substantial investments to prevent the crimes of another? Let us not forget, Mr Azpiazu, the moment we all live in: citizens and traders. Hard, difficult and contrasting with those good times that live the Basque haciendas. With an increase in tax collection of around 18%. They fill their arks while imposing a measure that promises to slim down those of the people who will apply it. I suppose that is what the Basque Government and the Members of Parliament intend to do to ensure the common interest, which is, in their case, their own interest. And yet, this goes back to the subject of deductions. Let us not forget that there are companies that will not be able to benefit from them. And I tell you especially in the case of those applied to corporation tax. We must remember that this applies to business profits, so let us ask ourselves how they intend to help those companies that do not profit. Without them and with a compulsory expenditure which they consider absolutely unnecessary, that is, a situation which in a very special way harms those who are having a bad time. A sort of dot for many of them. The increase in spending on the shopping basket has been triggered at unknown levels, which are also not few who have difficulty reaching the end of the month. And the administrations, moreover, are demanding an extra investment effort at a time when just opening the blind is a hard effort. That is why, Mr Azpiazu, we are going to ask you the question that we are all waiting for you to answer: do you consider it the best way to fight tax fraud? For you bear the cost of that battle and do not pass it on to those who have neither failed, nor do you, nor do you intend to do so. Better set the goal of your actions. Without a doubt, the Basque Government is the administration that should lead the corrections to be made. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u74	Eskerrik asko, Martinez, Andrea. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u75	Mrs. President, Chief of Parliament, Senora Martín. Good morning, everyone. I'll try to explain, Mrs. Martinez. I understand it's not going to be easy, because you have the a priori very settled even if they are wrong. I'm going to try to get a little knowledge of the reality that an opinion may have on the issue, I'm going to make a brief account of it, and I hope it will be useful, especially where and how the TicketBai project is born. To this end, I must withdraw on 14 October 2013, the date on which the Euskadi Tax Coordination Authority agreed to the creation of the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud in the Basque Country, thereby implementing Resolution No. 6 adopted by the plenary of this Parliament at its meeting on 26 September 2013. It's true that you weren't at the time, since your party was founded three months later, was it? And that may also make you not fully aware of the situation. In accordance with the resolution of the Basque Parliament, the committee is entrusted with the preparation of a joint plan to combat fraud, laying down its general criteria, as well as the coordinated actions to be carried out by the Foral Deputies. It was precisely in the Joint Plan to Combat Fiscal Fraud in the Basque Country for the year 16, where, in line with the preventive actions included in the respective plans of the Foral Deputies, a multi-year project was included for the first time to enable the implementation of cash register control systems in certain sectors of activity intensive in cash management, in accordance with the recommendations contained in several OECD studies and taking into account the experience of other countries in the environment. That's how TicketBai is born. Project in which the Foral Deputies and the Basque Government have been working since 2016, and which has been developed through an inter-institutional working group set up for this purpose in 2018. A project that has been inspired by the experience of the countries in our environment in this area. Project that within the framework of Internet of Things technology, Internet Of Things, pursues the implementation of means that ensure the preservation and communication of the tax administration's original sales records issued by billing devices. Project to be implemented through the out-of-pocket rules on corporate tax, personal income tax and non-resident income tax in relation to permanent establishments taxing this tax. I understand that you are aware, Mrs Martínez, that the competence to maintain, establish and regulate the tax regime for each of the historical territories lies with the General Councils and the Foral Deputies in accordance with the provisions of the first additional provision of the Constitution, in Article 41.2 (a) of the Statute of Autonomous Region of the Basque Country and the first article of the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It is precisely in the exercise of this competence that the competent institutions of the historical territories have established, through the corresponding external regulations, the obligations arising from the implementation of the new computer system. A computer system that guarantees integrity, preservation... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... the obligations arising from the implementation of the new computer system. A computer system that guarantees the integrity, preservation, traceability, inviolability and referral of files that document the delivery of goods and services according to their respective implementation schedules and strategies. And yes, I repeat, according to their respective timetables and implementation strategies that, in view of the peculiarities and singularities that occur within that territory, the competent institutions of the historical territories have approved. For its tranquility, the fundamentals of the Bai Ticket remain common to the three outbuildings. I would remind you, Mrs Martínez, that they have been coordinated in the interinstitutional working group to which the Basque Government is also an active party. Foundations that are also pioneers in the state. And that, in fact, I would inform you, in case you did not know, that you have inspired the State Agency of the Tax Administration to launch a similar initiative. In short, therefore, Mrs Martínez has no doubt that the Basque Government will continue to cooperate with the outside finance companies in the fight against tax fraud, carrying out preventive actions, as is the case with the Ticket Bai project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Azpiazu, do not be confused, it is not my tranquillity, it is the tranquillity of many self-employed and merchants who are waiting for this implantation to impose a heavy cost on their pockets. I know the subject in detail. Of course, I know it in detail, even if it had not been at the time when it was adopted in the Basque Parliament, because I have a lot to do with trade. I don't know if in your case the same thing happens or you're more concerned about being here than walking with traders to see what the problem is. In the implementation of the Bai Ticket you have installed the same for a last generation trade as for the suck shop all your life. Golosinas and tremendous computer support so that the deputies, in a sort of Spielberg film, have their Big Brother for anticipating fraud. From the mandatory implementation schedule of the Bai Ticket it is deduced that such fraud is a thing of Alaves and Gipuzcoans, because they have to put it before. However, it is a minor problem in Bizkaia because until 2024 there is no need to install it. Someone can explain such a misconception, Mr. Azpiazu. Is it so urgent not to be able to afford the same date for all alike and identical processes of incorporation into the system in the three provinces? By the way, you see that I am not finished with the questions, how do you explain that not a society, entity or foundation dependent on the Basque Government has implemented the system within the voluntary period? Understand that, as you probably also know, the example is an added value in a process that so much dust is generating and is also surrounded by so much controversy. These measures, Mr Azpiazu, all I tell you is that they have to be the same throughout the region, so that there is no comparative aggravation. The equality of all Basques must be guaranteed. And in that it is in your hand at the moment, because, even though the outlaws - as you have rightly said - do so, this has left the Basque Parliament and its department in particular. Therefore, we continue to tell you that comparative grievances are unacceptable. You have nothing but, I tell you, to walk through the shops, in this case of Álava - who are the ones I know very well - and you will see how many problems there are. Older, older, over 60 years old, people in Alava who cannot accept this foundation that has been applied in Gipuzkoa. Why don't we spread it out to all of us? Those over the age of 60 are in Álava, Bizkaia and Guipúzcoa; therefore, they should benefit from that welcome which has only been given in Gipuzkoa. On the other hand, we cannot apply an imposed regulation without 100 % subsidy. If you want everyone to fulfil their obligations – which, I repeat, I very much agree – subsidize it 100%. Self-employed traders are not now able to make an economic disbursement for their benefit. So, all right, we're going to manage tax fraud, but we're going to do it by letting go of the pocket money that we've previously paid all the taxpayers. Because I remind you that it is a software that has to be paid annually, that has to be updated annually. And that no one is telling those merchants at the end of the year the disbursement they're going to have. But I assure you, it's very high. With the resulting problem that they don't know how to handle computer science most of them. And you didn't worry about that. They have only been concerned about installing the Bai Ticket, but not about the consequences it has for the entire population. A population that, in addition, right now, after a pandemic, a war and a problem that you do not know how high it is, is putting more obstacles on the road. What they are going to achieve, instead of centralizing companies here in the Basque Country, is that they go to Miranda de Ebro, where they do not require such consequences at the moment. Don't do this to me, Mr. Azpiazu. I've been trading for a long time and I know what I'm talking about. Again, you'd better go through all the shops in Vitoria and talk to the people who run those shops to explain the problems and make decisions about it, at least to make it easier for them. Let's implement the Bai Ticket, but let's make it easier and, above all, fair between the three provinces, because we all pay the same taxes. Therefore, there is not so much haste, let us all do so in common, Bizkaia, Álava and Gipuzkoa. And, I repeat, we do not generate any more comparative grievances between provinces, because you answer from the three provinces and in your hand you are, Mr Azpiazu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u78	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u79	Yeah. Very briefly. Mrs Martinez, well, I want to reiterate to you what I pointed out earlier. I know traders, too, obviously. More than one and more than two. I don't know if as many as you do, because I don't do business, but I know a lot. And we have also talked about these issues and no one has moved these kinds of issues to me with the seriousness that you are asking me. The Ticket Bai project is a joint project of the foral estates and, indeed, the Basque Government. And it's a harmonised project on its foundations. Then the outland haciendas apply it in each of the territories because they are the competent, of course, for this. From there, I have not just understood where the inequality of the contribution of Basques and Basques to the support of the public expenditures that you imply in the justification of your inquiry lies. I would remind you that the principle of economic capacity is not altered by the entry into force of this system of control of invoicing and that, therefore, individuals and companies in Euskadi will continue to contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure in line with their economic capacity. That's a good question. [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... Invoicing and which, therefore, in Euskadi, individuals and companies will continue to contribute to the sustainability of public expenditure in line with their economic capacity. A very different issue is that it is concerned about the inequality of the showing economic capacity of taxpayers who have not been able to bear effective taxation in line with their economic capacity. Don't imagine or look for conflicts where there are no conflicts, because quite a few real ones are touching us to live. Don't try to generate an unnecessary rift or cross-clash on sterile bases. There you will not find me, either as a counselor or as a person, because the Basque Government will always be on the side of policies and strategies to combat fraud bags, which these are the ones that most break, injustice and inequality generate before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u80	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the legislatures of the Leire Pinedo Bustate EH are assembled to the head of Economics and Ogas, whether the crisis of energy, or the increase of inflation, are lightened by certain municipal problems." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief physician. The financial situation we're living in is taking a direct turn in various districts, and the councils are not an exception. The over-success of energy and the increase of inflation cause trouble in several councils, and this situation must be faced with for the benefit of the public. We must observe that the councils also had a great deal of difficulty in answering the consequences of COVID-19. And to-day-to-day-to oppose the still strong economic crisis, there are several measures in force. It is a fundamental principle of the House Organizations of Eusacidents that local finances will be assured of financial endurance by local institutions, and that the services of the people will be favorable to their services. And he can't refuse his protagonism in the institutional structure. And therefore the satisfaction of the want of financing, which is absolutely necessary to the necessities of the − society, is not the same with the different grades of structure. So, chief physician, would you please, uh, give me a special amount of energy crisis, or the increase of inflation, to ease the financial problems of certain councils?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u83	Mrs. Pinedo, I can assure you, this government has no special purpose in facing the financial issues of certain municipal councils, and does not see any extraordinary reason for your explanation, or for taking special measures in the financial situation of the townships. I must add further that even in the unproven hypothesis of financial problems in the local sector in or part of the Basque Country, the administration of the Autonomous Community would not be the first instance to go to to provide solutions to such problems, since the competitive and financial regulation of the institutional levels of the Basque Country provides for the clear that the Constitutional Chambers are responsible for such supervisory functions. Having said that, I do not understand why the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, the energy crisis and the increase in inflation create cost overruns in the municipalities to a different extent and greater than the rest of the administrations. Nor do I understand what would justify government action to help the local level, when faced with these eventualities in the same relative situation as other institutional levels. This, it is obvious, cannot be due to the fact that the municipalities are the public institutions closest to society or that they are often the ones who have to give the first answer. Believe me when I tell you that the Basque municipalities do not face the worst financial situation at this economic moment, but one of the best. Look, this government believes in the domestic funding model that this country has, which includes municipal funding. A model that effectively addresses internal financial imbalances, if any, but which are neutral external factors such as inflation and rising energy costs that are neutral to the model, because they affect all institutions alike. I don't doubt that certain townships can be economically ill, but not when the town sector was completed. Finally, I must remind you of something that you already know and which is a good example of concern for the Basque municipalities. I refer to the distribution, according to the competences and the coefficients relating to these competences, of the income obtained by the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, under Royal Decree 6 84/2021, in order to cushion the effects of the Euskadi pandemic. The local institutions in Euskadi have obtained, directly or indirectly, close to EUR 100 million of unforeseen financing at the beginning of this financial year. That's believing in the model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u84	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, chief physician, for your explanations. You see, we are in an unusual position, and this is plain; and this demands extraordinary answers. Zuk esan didazu Jaurlaritzak ez duella neurorik aurreikusita. Itxaroten wasn't a day. Eta banekien Zenidal Snake that the Basque Government is not the first instance, but that it is the Deputies. Obviously, I know the income-sharing system of this community of ours. But that doesn't take away so that you and I both know that the LILE talks about the sufficiency of the municipalities. And that's a responsibility of all of us. It is a responsibility of everyone and everyone. Because, as you have said, it is true that it is the parliaments in the first instance, but you know very well that we have already told you in that Law - the Law on Contributions - and in the law in which it was decided how money was again distributed, after a lot of years of disagreements between different institutions, which did not respond as it should to local institutions, that we saw that the problem of many local institutions was going to be repeated. You tell me that the cost overruns are homogeneous or are the same for all institutions. Obviously, but not all institutions have the same tools to deal with those cost overruns, and you know it very well. We don't have the same tools, they don't have the same tools as a small town hall as a Basque government. And they don't have the same tools... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to deal with those cost overruns, and you know it very well. We don't have the same tools, they don't have the same tools as a small town hall as a Basque government. And they don't have the same tools to throw at. And you know what I mean, debts, etc., etc. It doesn't exactly have the same ones that will have to go to the congresses to knock on the door? Well, they're gonna have to go to the congresses and knock on the door. What's not a general? I'm sure it's not general, as it wasn't general in the 2008 crisis, that it was a complicated crisis to manage municipalities, and I know what I'm talking about, and I know what I'm talking about. But that does not take away so that today there are in many municipalities that the extra costs that are being generated in works that were already in progress, are generating problems. Trouble. Probably punctual, but cash problems at some point. And that may come at some point to assume that other services that are... It is true that the institution closest to the citizen, but that is where citizens touch the door when they have a problem. For it can generate many of these services remain at the door, and they cannot be given as the city council at that time would like to. That's clear. That money was distributed in the pandemic? Obviously. And that came well. But there are many municipalities that are having problems, that have to be faced, and the responsibility lies with everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u87	Mrs Pinedo, we have taken into account those issues that you raise from small municipalities when we deal with the Act on Contributions. And those issues were taken into account; and de facto, there was somehow a change in the model in favor of the parliament... I'm sorry, about the city halls too. Then good. But the Government owes itself to the citizens, and to the public policies that are projectible in them; those of their competence; and to the corresponding funding. And so he has acted and will act. I will remind you of something that I have already expressed in this same forum on the sixth day of this month, on questions from Mr Soto. The Government is already taking action to alleviate the negative effects of the current energy or inflation crisis. Measures that even the lehendakari mentioned this morning: 150 million for saving energy efficiency and cost savings; financing of companies affected by the crisis 20 million; tax aid by the 165-members; strategic investment plan, as you know, EUR 530 million; recently adopted measures amounting to 200 million aimed at more vulnerable people and groups, businesses and micro-enterprises. In other words, the Government is acting in the area of its powers and possibilities. The solution to inflation, as you well know, unfortunately not only depends on Euskadi, not even on the state. Europe, the European Central Bank, has a lot to say about this. But as you see, as you see, in our area, in our area, we are acting, Mrs Pinedo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u88	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the KRRRR of the KRRRR of the Board of Education to work on social agreement after the educational agreement." Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u89	Thank you, Chief. Chief of the Union. We got an historic deal in this legal business a month and a half ago, we got an education agreement, we got a political education agreement. And in it we said that we thought it an strategic agreement to establish this agreement with political and social grounds. So I want to ask you what the Board of Education will do this evening for a month and a half after this political deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u90	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u91	Yes, chief of tables, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days. Mr. Arrese, as you have already mentioned, first of all, the socialization of education is essential. Education is one of the fundamental columns of our state's welfare. We must all be able to participate in this task, for it is the best invertisement for our children's future. We need to listen to the operators, the citizens. We must speak of morality, of inclusiveness, diversity, culture, the quality of education, of excellence. I've already had a dozen meetings. I've already been with more than 1,000 people, he's already in existence, even with different agents, and so we'll go on with discussion and education units and social societies? (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) Debemos de ser capaes de seguir promoviendos de encuentro, spios deflexixion, spios de particilpaón, spios de consensos de consensus. We'll also continue to work on the Basque School. We worked, and even in the short term we shall present several purposes, several purposes, in this case, in the work of the segregation. We believe that we must continue with this kind of work, which is the fundamental way of developing education into society. And as you have mentioned, Mr. Arrese, a social view, but also a political point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u93	Yeah. Thank you, Chief. I've brought in an artist's shirt and drawings, some one from today. He said (... He designed this because he told us that our smile was not seen with the kiss. And that's why I brought it here today. It's not a coincidence that on the 7th of April we agreed to an education agreement that day because we were deprived of the kisses, we intercepted them without kisses. And I think that in the corridors of this attic, among the reporters, in our offices, there was a smile that after the election of this education agreement, we had the illusion. Because this political agreement had a great illusion even in political matters. But it seems to me that the illusion which he created in us is still far from the society, far from the schools. And it seems to me that this illusion we obtained here in this chamber, and which we obtained among political parties, we ought to transfer to schools, communities, teachers, even families. And in order to develop this illusion, we have also a responsibility, and it is received in this way by educational tradition. I won't deny all that path in the Education Department, as is normal, I won't deny it. And I'm going to proclaim even more about all the work you're doing. And it seems to me that you're still on that road, and that you're also taking the leadership for social agreement... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I'll proclaim all the work you're doing. And it seems to me that you're going to stay on that road, and that you're also going to take the leadership for social agreement. You have the protection of all four of the greatest political forces, head of the Union. And we must make use of this alliance to make this political agreement social. And it seems to me, beyond what the Board of Education does, that confidence which we founded in this long process must follow, and that between the four parties we must follow the Board of Education, that we must retain those confidences, and that we must lead them to the Schools, to the Schools. Social agreement is absolutely necessary. And we have a tool to do that. Together we signed the foundor co-ordination and continuity of the education agreement in this Chamber, the Social Party, the EAJ and the Basque Country. We proposed to create a new organ, where you would have made the lead, that table. And today I want to call the parties in official fashion, and to you, so that we can convoke that organ and unite that organ. We have decrees of Curriculum before us, we have written contracts before us, we have school planning and compacts; and besides, it would be well for us to plan on this social agreement as well as to work on that coordination and continuity table. Euscalal education is a law of purpose, and in this legislation we wish to establish a new law of euscal education, and to be successful from the first, besides political agreement, social agreement is necessary. That's why I'm giving you back the hand of the Basque Country, that social deal between the four political forces and how we'll get it between the Board of Education, so let's decide what we'll do between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u94	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u95	Mr. Arrese, as I mentioned in the preceding round, it's essential to socialize education agreement, and it's also essential to maintain the complicity that was obtained among political parties. As you have seen, I am in trouble with my voice, and these are my problems every day on account of the meetings I keep every day with the − or bilers in this case, for at last I am gathering up with all the agents and a lot of people around it. Dándole la importancia, y lo que hemos aprenddo tambien, a la fillidad, a quapartición activea de la comunidad eduivata, we must finally continue to create places based on trust. The fundamental agreements we have received have been a vast protection to the majority in this legislature. The dialogue, the participation, the agreement, the transparent process, has been through it, and we must deal with it in some way. The drafting process of the articulated text is under way, and also, in addition to everything we are doing with the different actors and with all the people who are truly interested in this project, we will also work on the socialization of the normative project. You will be subject to participation, consultation, hearing and public information for contrast. This text will also pass through the government departments, through the rest of the public administrations, will be ready for citizenship, to the Euskadi School Council, before forwarding it again to this Parliament for debate and completing this social perspective that we have made 360 degrees. Education is a country objective, prioritizing the maintenance of consensus achieved to date. Lan mandia geratzen da egiteko, guardantasun osoz jarraituko dugu, elkarrizketarako eta lankidetzarako guneei eutsiko diegu Ganbera honetan hartutako konpromisoa weretzun egokia emateko. We're already in touch with you to begin the recording of decrees, as you mentioned, and we'll also use the invitation you gave us to do as best we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. fourteen points in theme list: "The question is, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with the staff of the Podemos-IU members of the Board of Education, about the great imbalance of the Ordi." Gonzalez andrea. Bear wave.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u97	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning chief. We have worked long and hard around the unequal distribution of students in the two centers of Ordizia, the public school and the concertada. But, apparently, it has not been enough, because today no solution has been given. It's been five years since this situation was reported, but, well, they've turned their backs on it. And, moreover, they gave good thought to the irregularities produced by assigning one more classroom that did not correspond to the agreed center. The interrogator has warned your department a lot, but you've made the earl. It's not until today that you've taken one measure to correct the school segregation. "Dicho esto y con la intención decile que no cederemos begina que se estableca una solución justa, queremos pregunle: Will the Board of Education take any specific rectification of this unequal balance in the Ordi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u99	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mrs. González, as I have elsewhere remarked, the segregation of the school is a very complex phenomenon, and is a consequence of several factors, such as the distribution of land, society, and city structure, of the social characteristics of the population, and of the social social and social characteristics of the population, and of the socilinistic, of their models, their geographical position of schools, and the distribution of the lives of the students. These factors condition the choosing of a school, and in the end families create distinguishing priorities and patterns of choice. Ordiziako udalerriaren kasuan ez da egia Sailak Arartekoaren gomendioari jaramonik egin ez dionik. We must first value the effort and involvement of the entire Department of Education, starting from the first and ending with the last. We know the reality of Ordizian society and education. We've done more than ten encounters and formal visits this time with the education community, the Urdan and School school, the Oiangu... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... On learning and this time, we've done more than ten formal meetings and visits with the educational unit, the Urdan and School, the University of Oiangu, the representatives of the University, the mayor of Ordi, and the Arlia, regardless of all the frequent relations we've had through telephones and other technical means. We are continually examining the data on the distribution of the plates of the schools in Ordiria, as well as the ordinary license plate, as regards the license plate, which is used at this time by the school club. These data is shared with perfect transparency at the Companion Committee. Based on this information shared with educational agents, work has been done on planning for the next course with the aim of adjusting the supply to the real needs arising from the demographic pattern. Heinera, Hurrengo ikasturteetan hezkuntza-laguntzako award spicekoak dituzten ikasleentzako plaza-erreserba bat aplikatzeko konpromisoa dugu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u100	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u101	Yeah. I know you know the Ordizian situation and the solution. Because the Arts and the Basque School of Ordiz have explained to you the Communitys of the Public School. Arazoa agerikoa da, eta irtenbidea nahiko is wrong. Ordiziak % 19k migration rate du, Euskal Herriko altuenetarikoa. Haur Hezkuntzan eta derrigorrezko eskolatzea adinean donden ikasleen familiar herenak azerrian du jatorria and nine out of ten pupils of immigrant origin are enrolled in public school. Ordizian edo Euskal Herrian jatorria dutenetatik, aldiz, erdiak bath gutxiagoak ikasten due eskola publikoan. Gurasoek haien semi-alaben ikastetxea aukeratzeko daukaten eskubidea beasts ezein eskubideren shenetik dagoelako, akaso? Arartekoak garbi utzi zuen orin hiru urte jada hitzez-hitz: "the right to free choice of centre is not a right of benefit that obliges the educational administration to give satisfaction to the choice made by the families, but a sort of configurative principle of educational planning, which in turn must bear in mind the achievement of other objectives such as promoting a greater balance in the social composition of educational institutions". Gu geu beat cataz hitz horiekin. Eta bat cataz was Berberan Ordiziako Eskola Publikoko gurasoen elkartearekin. Diotenes: irtenbidea ez datza azerritar jatorria duten ikasleak berantolatzean. Horrela Egyptotan, eskola publikoak ikasleaz uztu eta itunpekoa indartuko dellako. To do so, Mr Bildarratz, in addition to not being effective, is discriminatory, since all the responsibilities of the imbalance are focused on pupils of foreign origin or in a disadvantaged economic situation. The classrooms, both of the public school and of the ikastola, must be a reflection of the social vertebration of the municipality. And the only way to achieve this goal is to organize the whole student in a balanced way. And it goes without saying, Mr. Biltz, the key to all this business is in the schedule. You've given the first Decree project and it doesn't look good. It's our duty to follow every step you're going to take in the strict step you're going to go through the balanced school, because the local partnership itself is on the brink. And, unfortunately, the Ordizian isn't an isolated problem. They are in the same state as Orio and Andoiain, and in the gross extremity of the affair we find Labka, where the public school was left to disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u103	Gonzalez andrea. We have an increasingly diverse society. Eta aurrean dugun errorka ez da Ordiziarena berriariz, éta irteenbidea adostuta dakkagu henera. He goes beyond the schools of education, and he involves society as a whole. For the effort to overcome this challenge compels us not only to put ourselves in the focus-place, but also to trigger additional balanceers. As a complex challenge, we agree that additional measures and, above all, inter-agency collaboration are needed. We know the importance of this matter and we endorse the commitments contained in the agreement on bases and agreed upon and agreed upon. We're working to appreciate the students' approval and the planning. We also wish to take other measures, in order that the students may not be separated either from the social or for other reasons. In the particular case of the Ordizia, we insist upon giving more protagonism to the Council of City School, in order to maintain the proper and balanced education of students with specific needs of education, in order that they may not be separated from each other by social reasons or by other. The Municipal School Council, an important instrument, as a forum in which all agents of the educational community are represented and in which we are all involved in the search for solutions beyond confrontations between educational networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "Ask me, Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EHGGD members made for the planetion, Housing and Transport Commander, about the order project of available rent." Mr Fernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u105	gentlemen: Yeah. Good afternoon. Chief Arriola. HUD is ready for a free rental project. And so those who are registered on the avenues and have the highest incomes will become a new fashion. The question is: Do you think it's socially unfair to those who don't charge least? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u106	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betaño, you are starting from a wrong approach in your question. This Department does not prioritize access to housing for citizens with higher incomes than those with lower incomes. And, of course, we do not neglect the needs of the most vulnerable. What we are trying to offer are different solutions to different circumstances, without ever losing sight of the priority collective of our political action. Because, as you well know, the Basque Government's housing policies focus on the most disadvantaged groups, basically on people with less economic resources and more family burdens, and also on young people. With this we are getting almost one in two rented homes in Euskadi to have some level of public protection today, either because of having a public park home or because of having an income support. This is something that distinguishes us and places us at European social protection levels, but we believe that without abandoning at all the priority attention to the most vulnerable group, we must open doors to other social sectors that also require affordable activity. At the moment, there are around 7,000 families with income between 21,000 and 39,000 euros per year indicated in the Etxebide register as applicants for a rented house. We are therefore looking for ways of responding to this collective which, in practice, does not benefit either from social housing awards or from economic housing benefits.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u108	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u109	Let me get this straight. Because those who charge most don't have a flat, you've created a new fashion inside the building. You say they're 7000 families, O son, there's no housing for them, maybe it's a question. Is there a house for those who charge less? How many are there? It's 540,000. Is home for those 54 grand? Of course not. What are you doing with them? Preparation. Preparation, that's it. Just like you did. 275 dollars a month, go straight to the hands of private owners. So that's where you're overreacting a lot of people. Be careful, those 540,000 don't charge the charge, they only charge a big piece, all of them. You're warming up the rental bubble for the private market. Yes, yes, that's what you're doing. And now you create a new fashion for those who charge most of them. We don't see the idea badly in itself, but the budget you had for that would have to be doubled. Is that gonna be double? It'd be good to see everyone who gets paid less after he's offered a flat for those who pay the most. But if this is so, I think it is rather difficult to explain it from a party whose left hand is self-conscious. Besides, what are you going to do on this project? You'll dig deeper on the pernicious model of your private public injury. What does that mean? How do you manage to hire the private engine housing that you want? What you've done before, this: Take out the talonary. And you pay them for every apartment, if they make it available for ten years, $12,000 euros; and if they make it 20 years, 24,000 for each flat. Sounds like a good idea, but what's wrong? It just happens that those ten years go by. What happens when those ten years go by? That these families are going out. And there's trouble. And we believe that we must, therefore, make a better decision in the most beautiful housing. And that in the niceest housing on the lease, it is exactly the most permanent policy that should be taken. And we believe that families's lives must be guaranteed the whole course of public administration in order to continue rent if they want them. And your idea seems to be offering rent to people until they didn't buy a house, right? And we believe that the public administration ought to guarantee the rights of families to give their whole career to a social rent. That's the axis of a fair social policy for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u110	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u111	I believe that I have made it very clear that the people with the least resources are the group to which this Government devotes its priority in the area of housing. And that's how it should be. And that's right. But this is not incompatible with the search for formulas that allow us to try to respond to people who, even though they have a somewhat better economic situation, also have serious difficulties in obtaining housing in the rental-free market. And that's why we're working on affordable rental regulations. The aim is to articulate a private public partnership mechanism, with the fundamental objective of mobilising privately owned land for the sheltered rental of housing applicants from Etxebide with rents between 21,000 and 39,000 euros. A new formula in line with a recent European Parliament report entitled "Policies to ensure access to affordable housing". It recommends extending social and affordable housing activities, now limited to socially disadvantaged groups, to wider groups of the population whose needs are not being met in the private housing market. Well, that's our goal. Let's not forget that these are people discharged as applicants for housing in... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...satisfied in the private housing market. Well, that's our goal. Let us not forget that these are people who have been discharged as tenants of housing in Etxebide. They're there because they meet the requirements. They have the right to be dealt with, and our obligation is to try to respond to their demand. If you ask me if it seems socially fair to me to help find affordable rental housing for those people, my answer is yes. If you do not believe that, on your part, it would be consistent to propose in this Parliament a cut in the maximum income limit for individuals and families to be admitted as tenants in Etxebide. Do it. And so many people would not waste their time or generate false expectations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u112	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interadectition by Pazzi Gartega EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, concerning the partnership agreement signed by Osamen and Mutuallia." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u113	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning to Chief of Apples. And good morning to all. In May 5 past, we learned that Osata has signed a partnership agreement with Mutulia, and that the doctors of the two organizations can receive direct clinical history from both services. I'll determine more about the concern that we are about to compete. By this term, you hand over the Mutual, the workers in the public health system, the Osar, the files with which they are filed and the clinical historians. I mean, this coworker agreement is that the Mutullata will recognize the health precedents of the working people who are working with the Osapides, the treatments they're receiving, the tests, the tests, the workbags. And I have to control him in accidents and in professional diseases only, because this is the role of the mute in ordinary diseases. Mutua and Mutualia are not different. It's the main goal to be as brief as possible. As the businessman wants, many cases, even if he supposes people to go to work unfinished. We must remember that the mute, the Mutulia, is a company of businessmen of private nature. So, it's not a coincidence when Mutualia came in 2016, the director was the president of Confebask. Nevertheless, these associations of enterprises, such as the Mutulia, have been invested with more and more power, till they have become the helper of the public system of public security, and have managed more and more public money. Now signed agreement strengthens that path. Public health systems, access to the clinical history of the Osarists is an old demand from the Mutu. So that's an old story. The nearest precedent is the law of the Muts, which was accepted in 2014 by the PP government in Spain. That law was rejected by all the unions. By this law the mutes were assigned, among other things, to follow and control the foals of common disease, although they are derived from the public system of physical health. This law of PP extended the possibility of access to the clinical history of workers. With this law the access to clinical history is not correct, and it is only confined to a particular process. Now Osacides, this law of the Mutuaries, has used the opportunity to present to the Mutulian, which in 2014 had not been obtained by the mutes with the government of PP: to acquire a clinical history of the workers of public health system. You will tell me that the permission of the workingman will be necessary, but I do not think that if I say anything, the liberty of the working-men to decide in an individual manner in the working-rooms, it becomes too much chimeras. Today, the Basque Government, with the collaboration agreement signed by Osakidetza with Mutualia, by which it will have access to our clinical history of the public health service, means going much further than in 2014 it dared to legislate the PP government in Madrid. As I said, this law, which is now being used by this Government to sign this agreement, counted and counts on the rejection of all Basque trade union organizations. In 2015, this Parliament even adopted a resolution calling on the Spanish Government to repeal it. Then the PSE in this House and in the debate on this resolution said: "We are opposed to mutuals entering the field of public health, against the health of workers. The Basque Socialists cannot agree with the mutuals entering to control the high and low parts of the workers, and the health care resulting from the common disease. For our parliamentary group, this is unacceptable." Well, I do not know what the Socialist Group will think today, because of course, then and now it is still unacceptable. The law itself which upholds the agreement signed by Osakidetza and Mutualia expressly states as its objectives the fight against unjustified absenteeism to improve the competitiveness of companies. This law speaks little or hardly anything about improving the health care of women workers. This law attributes to the conventions, such as that which Osakidetza has now affirmed, the quality of instruments of great effectiveness in improving the management and control of temporary disability. Faced with this, Euskal Herria Bildu considers that the strengthening of the power of the mutuals, as is done with this agreement of Osakidetza with Mutualia, putting at its disposal the clinical history of public health, is based on three strongly false ideas: The first is the need to exercise control over casualties by medical personnel in the public system, sowing mistrust over medical personnel in Osakidetza. When it turns out that it is this medical staff of Osakidetza who has passed access tests to enter the public system. This does not happen with the medical staff of the mutuals, who do not know with what profile they hire this staff. And this has also motivated complaints from the medical staff of Osakidetza, who must invest time to respond to the increase in bureaucratic procedures in response to the requirements of the mutuals. The second falsehood is that the best management and effectiveness of public resources is done from the private sphere. And it turns out, as I said before... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... the requirements of the mutuals. The second falsehood is that the best management and effectiveness of public resources is done from the private sphere. And it turns out that, as I said before, this system, above all, invests a lot of resources and time in the control of casualties. And as the representative of Euskal Herria Bildu explained at the 2015 plenary session, let's see in a process of common sick leave, how many optional people can get involved: the primary care doctor who issues low, one; the specialist doctor to whom they have been able to get from, two; the medical doctor of medical inspection, three; the mutual doctor who makes the proposal for discharge, four; the doctor to whom the mutual can send for complementary tests, five; and the doctor of the National Institute of Social Security, six. This does not seem to be a very efficient management, nor does the objective seem to be to improve the health of working people. And we believe that Mutualia's access to Osakidetza's clinical history will serve to elevate this (?) from the mutual to the medical staff of Osakidetza. And the third falsehood is that... is the suspicion of fraud in respect of working persons. We do not know what we are talking about when they talk about absenteeism from the business world, trying to place it as the big job problem, while they remain silent in the face of the unacceptable occupational disaster still in the workplaces. But we do know what this is all about, which is the pressure that hardworking people get to go to work while they're still sick. We also know that there is a very important under-record of occupational diseases on the part of the mutuals, occupational diseases that are not recognized as such by the mutuals and that are derived from Osakidetza. Access to the clinical history can be used to use the data contained in it to follow the path of considering that work-related diseases are common diseases, or that relapses from work-related accidents are common diseases. At the end of the last year, the Councilbranes union protested in front of Mutuly's residence against the wrong hospitals. Yesterday, ELA, LAB, and ESTEEYS unions protested against the agreement between Osar and the boys. The agreement with the Mutuli is a new step to the privatization of public health. They do not reject the judicial method, and they requested the health of the workingmen to be in public hands and in the hands of the corporate officers. We don't know this agreement before you sign it, as the representative of the workers you've made this agreement with the unions. Therefore we have introduced this interference to the health physician, to know the reasons which have induced your government to sign this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Pazzi Garcia. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u115	The President of the legislature, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days again. The agreement between membership and mutality, on the one hand, answers to a fundamental principle of health, which has long been accepted, and on the other, the quality of health attention to one criterion. Principle: that each person, each worker, belongs to his clinical history. Not a member of Oss, not a Mutulia, not a doctor who takes care of a person every moment. The owner is the person, and has a right to his history, to know what information he has of his health condition and treatments, and how to use them. Criteria: To moderate the bureaucracy of the administration. So that, instead of sending a patient from one side to the other, we have signed the pact to be able to get information from all professional healthes that are in hand, and to add the proper information. For what each professional has to do. And cases. That's what he says. If you don't give us the ticket, let's go to the target. And that's what he puts on. .). How much trouble can this agreement be in the health of the workers, Mrs Garcia? I don't really understand the real information I've given you about the agreement, what's lucky about this worry of workers. We say it over and over, we say you: that health is to be the integral care of health, and the whole work is within it. The health condition of workers is a very important starting point in the field to prevent disease and accidents and to pay attention to them. In the same way, the conditions of work being exposed to certain dangers, or caused by diseases and accidents that may be employed (... ) In a state of people's health. Now there are protocols for these people that pay attention to their colleagues and workers from the Mutualia to their files and history when that is necessary for their access to all this information; these administration protocols are done in most cases by paper, which is a very intelligible charge. Through this agreement, and using informal applications and instruments, the sanitary personal personnel of the dumb may be allowed to enter into the clinical history of their patients, to recognize the treatments that are being recorded, the Analytic, and the diagnosis, and so on. But I tell you again, when they have something to do with their work, of course. And in the same way, the boarders will be able to directly recognize the dangers, accidents, diagnosiss, (... ) treatments and updated status. The agreement also enables you to update the records and new information of people who are paying attention to both kinds of organizations. Thus, besides sharing information and entering new data immediately, Analytics and Diagnostics are shared by the results, which times can be shortened. Considering the private nature of the data in the files of health and the clinical history, this agreement will only be attended with consequences in this case. The people who are active, the people under control... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] Considering the private nature of the data which they are, this treaty will only have consequences in this case. Men who are affected, i.e., people under influence, that is, the owner of the clinical history,−, when they give express permission to the workers of both organizations to share their data. This new model of integration and co-ordination is directed to the neighborhood of 400.959 workers. Look, Mrs. Garcia, my job is to take care of the health of the patients, and that's what this agreement is about. Where is the problem in health risk or risk to people? On the contrary, it is an improvement to consider occupational health as an integral part of health. This is something we repeat over and over again: comprehensive health care from the public health service in Euskadi. The agreement, I repeat, speaks of health, not disability. But I do think it is worth remembering that Mutualia is an association of companies but not for profit, which is constituted by authorization of the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration to have or end, collaborate in the management of the security, yes, but under the direction and guardianship of that Ministry. This is part of the public sector, with functions for the management of the economic benefits of those health care - including rehabilitation - included in the protection of occupational accidents and diseases of the social security system, as well as in the prevention of the same contingencies provided by protective action. Part of this is - that's health care - the management of the temporary disability benefit resulting from common contingencies, the management of the risk benefits during pregnancy and risk during breastfeeding, the management of the economic benefits due to cessation of activity, the management of the care benefit for children affected by cancer or other serious illness, and other activities that may be. But Osakidetza and Mutualia are two entities that act on the care and promotion of the health of people: in this case, one, in the field of occupational health; the other, in the field of integral health, the person as a whole. Both contribute to the prevention of the disease, and also to accidents. And about health care when the disease occurs, whether for one reason or another. And on these, the people, who are, in addition to the protagonists of the action of Osakidetza and Mutualia, the owners, the owners, the clinical histories, and on which we have responsibility. Stories don't belong to anyone else. Osakidetza and Mutualia make them with information essential for the knowledge and monitoring of people's health. This agreement does nothing but provide workers who so wish that their clinical histories can be as complete as possible. What both entities do have is the responsibility for proper custody of such information, unless the person concerned requests to dispose of it or provides it to another entity for administrative processes, to require second opinions, or to more fully care for his or her health, as is the case. Among the various concretions contained in the articulation of the agreement so that its object can be carried out, I highlight the most important of them all, and I will read it textually: "And always with the prior and indispensable consent authorized, given for the purpose of enabling the consultation and, if necessary, for the subsequent incorporation into the clinical history of the mutual of the clinical documentation necessary for the assistance and processing of the file concerned". Not of the general nature, of the file in question. "Consent is given by the individual on whom the processing of the information is to be seen or, where appropriate, by his or her legal representative." Who are we to hinder this? Then, far from being at risk for health care, we are faced with an initiative that improves comprehensive health care, generates greater safety for the patient, eliminates bureaucratic procedures, saves efforts for users and professionals, avoids duplication of tests and, above all, consults previously with the person concerned if he wants the contents of his clinical history to be consulted, shared and, if necessary, incorporated new information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u117	Good morning again. Well, it's a shame that the Mountain isn't the head of the department. Even if we don't formally direct the interrogation to him, he's in the wrong way. And I'm saying this because the Department of Work and Employs has recently presented the St. Security and Health strategy of Work, and, as we said to the chief physician, today to the Chief of the cider department, as we also say to you, we agree in this strategy that − and today you said that the care of the workers is an integrated view. And we agree with that plan. It's a person, and it's not possible to share in a work's health and other outside work; it's being recorded on the same strategy. But, as we said to the Chief physician today, we also tell you that if we agree with this plan, the same system now divides the health of the workers: In the silent health of work, and in the company of Osaba. That's why we were concerned about the Mountain Chief. And in that manifestation we asked him if from this integration of health they thought of placing the clinical history of the working people to the hands of the dumb. He said no, his health strategy didn't get it. But now we've seen work and Eplegus don't take that opportunity, but the Medical Department does. Today the health of workers is artificially divided into two parts: occupational health in mutual societies, and non-occupational health in Osakidetza. And you can't compare Mutualia to Osakidetza, as the counselor has now done. Osakidetza is the service, the public health system. And Mutualia is an entity... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Osakidetza, as the councillor has now done. Osakidetza is the service, the public health system. And Mutualia is a private entity made up of an association... by business associations. It cannot be compared and cannot be put at the same level. And this duality, this way of cutting artificial health - I share this - is related in a conflictual way because they confront two models of health care: a model of caring for humanist, non-productive health, developed by the professionals of Osakidetza, and a model of caring for biological and economic health, where health care is conditioned by the business interest that the casualties are as short as possible, and, in that interest, the integral recovery of the health of the working people is not the best interest. And this is the model of health care that mutuals represent, which Mutualia represents. The partnership agreement signed by Osakidetza with Mutualia means strengthening the position of those who apply the economic model of health care. It involves strengthening Mutualia's position vis-à-vis Osakidetza, giving it access to Osakidetza's clinical history - a question to be taken into account. Osakidetza clinical history that is elaborated from the confidence of users with primary care professionals. Clinical history including what is called soft information, such as clinical, social and work aspects. There are plenty of reasons to be very critical about the health care that is done from business mutuals, and among them Mutualia. And it does not go the right way if what is done goes right in the opposite direction, reinforce the role of the mutuals, which is what the Osakidetza-Mutualia convention does. Convention which has not even been consulted - at least it has not told me - with trade union representation, although, on the other hand, the Labour Health Strategy of this Government says that tripartite collaboration must be the pillar for any proposal or action in the field of occupational safety and health. He says he doesn't know the reasons for being against this agreement. I think if I talked to the unions more, I'd have the chance to know those first-hand reasons. Chief of the cider department, talk to the unions, talk to the professional members of the Osacombs. And if what is really important is health, don't leave the pact signed with Mutulia without force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u119	As I have said before, it is far from endangering the care of health. And you got out of there. You haven't talked about health. It's a initiative that creates more security for the patient, for the patient. The professionals that operate on people's health, even the members of the Oscars, who share it more quickly. They share it. I don't know why, Mrs. Garcia, you put things in the same proportion. Don't put on the public health system and the Mutulia (do you? e.g. And again, I take you back to the agreement. Read it. It's on both sides. He talks about taking care of them. And the story of public health remains public health and patient health. Only when it's necessary. And so the worker will be supported by one side or the other by a slight way of additional information. That's it. It eases bureaucratic criteria. The spear knife eases the professionals. There is also a duty to them, because they belong to the professionals, and are to be shared in one side or the other. And what he does is make it easy, certainly. I agree, it comes perfectly aligned with the Primary Care Strategy. In line with the Strategy... strategic number one highlights the special relevance that deburocratization has in revaluing the function and role of primary care. The agreement with the mutual workers offers us a great step forward in this regard. In addition, and above all, it is a great step forward for the citizenry. I will explain with two examples the circumstances and also the consequences of the current situation. Pregnant women. Pregnant women will no longer have to ask for an appointment at their health centre to be filled out with a document, a document, which certifies pregnancy and the duration of pregnancy when applying for an adjustment or leave from the mutual. This need can be managed in a single appointment and without the need for further travel with the patient's consent. It's true. That is one of the concrete actions. People who have suffered an accident at work. These people will no longer have to take the documentation of the actions performed in the mutual to Osakidetza, to their health center, to be registered, which they need, as you well know. Complementary tests, diagnoses, interventions performed by the mutual can be consulted directly if the person wants his or her family doctor, doctor, and whenever that person wants to do so. And this possibility will also prevent you from having to repeat tests in Osakidetza in some cases or you will be able to carry out some additional tests if you consider it, in that relationship, indeed of trust between your family doctor and the person. In the same way, from the mutual will be able to access the results of additional tests that have been made to the person if the person wants it to be possible to access the person. And with this we will avoid the displacement of citizenship to the services of care to the users in order to request the same. Because people do, they request results from diagnostic tests that have been performed in Osakidetza to bring them to their doctor in the mutual. On the other hand, the possibility of knowing and sharing the dates of upcoming consultations and tests facilitates a more efficient management in consultations and follow-up in Primary Care and also in Hospital Care. Avoid unnecessary or worthless displacements for the affected persons. These are the advantages of the agreement. And at no time have we talked about conditions, IT or anything. We're talking exclusively about health. And of course it doesn't contravene any other area of government, because here... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...no IT conditions or anything. We're talking exclusively about health. And of course it does not contravene any other area of government, because here it is exclusively about health, and respecting the person who is the owner of the clinical history. Eye, is the owner of the medical history, deposited on one side or deposited on the other. And above all, I make it clear to you, Mrs Garcia: we do not deposit the medical history of Osakidetza in Mutualia, we do not deposit. Each person in their respective process decides whether to share the necessary information on this matter between Osakidetza professionals and Mutualia professionals. I do not think we should go on that path of creating assumptions or fictitious fears about the use of information. I invite you to carefully analyse the documentation of the two public entities and acknowledge that, despite criticism, it is a step forward in the comprehensive health care of all working people. And, in addition, the occupational disease goes on to take another step as an integral part of health care by the public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u120	Thank you, chief physician. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interlation, Laura Garridio Knörre Eusula, a member of the Ciudadans made to the head physician of the Medical Department, to repair the privations of patients with the disorder of food." Mrs Garrido, the word is wood.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician, chief physician, chief physician of the Medical Department, Chief of Cultural. Partners. First of all, I would like to thank the guests we have today in this plenary, who are two patients with eating disorders for a long time. I also have to say that we are going to have an opportunity to hear them in this Parliament's Health Committee because I have asked for them to appear. So thank you, Alexandra, Aitziber, also accompanies you a family member, Alexandra's mother, Mary Jesus. Thank you for being here today and being brave, and for letting us know your testimony, as you are already doing in various media. I hope this will help to remove consciousness. The reality of eating behavior disorders is here, they're close. I mean, it's not something that's not close to us and that, therefore, we can't look anywhere else at all. I know that the Department of Health and Osakidetza, of course, do not look elsewhere. But I believe, Madam Counsellor, sincerely, that there are things that can be improved, and especially when these patients and their families suffer, they suffer a great deal. And especially when sometimes you even have to make many kilometers to receive the treatment that is considered appropriate. And I say this, above all, bearing in mind that we are in an autonomous community - and that I repeat very much in my speeches - rich, that we have a per capita expenditure on health of 1,984 euros, that we are of the autonomous communities that we spend most on health. And, therefore, I think that if other autonomous communities have created this type of specific units, a focus that gives more effective results, I think there is room for improvement here too. Then I will address this issue. But, for starters, we all know what a CT scan is, a eating disorder that can trigger major physical diseases. And that in extreme cases, it even leads to malnutrition, death from malnutrition or suicide; apart from its own impact on the mental health of these people and the mental health problem that also underlies a TAC disorder. The figures in Euskadi speak for themselves. Disorders have increased by 32.6% since the beginning of the pandemic. In 2019 there were 5,932 cases; now there are, the year 2021, 8,757. Consultations have increased by 72 per cent over two years. And revenue has also increased, in the year 2020 it increased from the previous year in 263 cases, and in the year 2021, 359 cases. It should be said that a specific TAC disorder programme has been in place in Euskadi since 1987, and that primary care, once the relevant assessment has been carried out, is referred to mental health services, which after the relevant evaluation is decided whether the specific TAC disorder programme is included. It should also be noted that income occurs only when the body mass index is less than 18. And that it is a question and a situation limit and that we believe it is a question to be reviewed. As a result of this assessment by the Osakidetza mental health network, the result is a widespread admission or treatment of these people by Osakidetza. We have to say that the treatment currently in Osakidetza has multiple shortcomings and that it is not producing effective results, Madam Counsellor. There is a system, which for the patients themselves is a system too focused on reward and punishment, and which does not, as I said, achieve the expected results. There are no specialists, there is no coordination between the different levels. There is a lack of truly multidisciplinary treatment through, as I said, specific units for eating behavior disorders. This, as he also pointed out earlier, is leading to patients moving from Euskadi to other autonomous communities in which these units do exist, or to those that can, of course, go to inaccessible private resources, as he said, for the vast majority of these people and their families. I do want to stop here because, obviously, even when we talk about public resources we have to make a reference to sustainability, cost-benefit and effectiveness. But, counselor, if that specific unit for eating disorders in Euskadi was not created, I do believe... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...effectiveness. But, Madam Counsellor, if this specific unit for eating disorders in Euskadi was not created, I do believe it is fair that the possibility of paying the expenses to these people, to these patients and to their families, who are now moving to other autonomous communities to be properly cared for and receiving the treatment they are not receiving today in Osakidetza, can be dealt with. Not that they are not receiving treatment, I say that this treatment is not producing results. Here are several examples. They are people who are currently over 35 years old, and they are people who have been carrying a eating disorder since the age of ten. When for such a long period of time these people who suffer from ups and downs in these disorders, which is like a roller coaster, as they describe it, I think we have to conclude that something clearly fails, Madam Counselor. I think that we must also have an impact on prevention, on the high rates of chronicity if we do not arrive in time; therefore, the early detection of a possible disorder in food behaviour, I think, is essential. The continuity of treatments, this is also absolutely transcendent. We cannot settle for an income, but then these people have to be followed up, because many of these people fall, and this is the case of the people who are accompanying us here today. There is also a need for a paradigm shift in the way these diseases are seen, and I believe that public institutions, the media, also have a role to play. Greater visibility and understanding must be given to the people and families in this situation. As I said, the impact on mental health is obvious, even coming to death from malnutrition, from suicide, because these people often have suicidal ideas. In physical health we talk about lack of period, digestive problems, nephrologic problems in the kidney, osteoporosis, we talk about resuma. There are many patients who have not just recovered and are admitted after admission. They also accompany these people constant feelings of sadness, tiredness, guilt, tiredness, little desire to live, weakness. You have to live with that, you have to live with that. That is why we have formulated this question, Madam Counsellor, and we ask you whether it is your department's intention, on the part of Osakidetza, to remedy the shortcomings of people suffering from eating disorders in the Basque Country, a TAC and, in this regard, whether it is intended to strengthen existing resources. I would like to conclude by saying that the TAC is not a whim at all. And their proper attention to achieve their total healing is an obligation of all of us and of the public authorities, and in particular of the Basque Government, the Department of Health and Osakidetza, who is currently the one with the competence. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u122	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u123	The President of the Parliament, chief of staff, members of the legislature, all of you who came here today, good day again. Mrs Garrido, I thank you for recognizing that the Department of Health is not looking elsewhere in relation to eating disorders. If I have to ask you, and I do so from the utmost respect to those people in whom the treatments proposed may not have the required results, or who sometimes want to have access to other treatments other than those proposed from the network, on what basis you say that there are multiple deficiencies detected in Osakidetza in the diagnosis and treatment of people with multiple eating disorders, Mrs Garrido. Moreover, I believe that in the debate on the future strategy of mental health care it has already been clearly reflected that there is pioneering experience, moreover, in cases in Euskadi in the (?) language of mental health, but that also, undoubtedly, we are with the will to improve that we have, and that is why we are putting forward a new strategy. Five strategies we have had since 1983. The last is that of 2016, where food behavior disorders played an important role. All of them have had as common factor the implementation of the community model with the development of all its characteristics, promotion of autonomy, which you have mentioned them, continuity of services, accessibility, comprehensive care, equity, personal recovery, accountability and quality. And in 2016, which is the current one so far, the Mental Health Advisory Council that hosts institutions, professional colleges and social organizations, established a monographic working group on the subject that we are dealing with today. The result of this work was a series of conclusions that were incorporated into Osakidetza's care strategies. In this group, on the creation of a specific hospitalization unit for eating behavior disorders, a specific hospital structure was considered, it did not provide any more results or relevant care quality. However, it was found that this type of pathology generates distortions in the hospitalization units based mainly on three circumstances that require special attention: prolonged stays at times of chronic characteristics, attendance of different specialties in the management of this pathology, problems of nursing management, especially associated with overload, given the need for monitoring and follow-up very close. To this end, measures were proposed to resolve them, measures that have been implemented since then, such as reinforcements in nursing according to the casuistic and concentration of eating behavior disorders. In the Psychiatry services it was proposed the establishment of nursing reinforcements for situations of concentration, criteria of chronicity, a not very high proportion in eating behavior disorders derives in situations of high complexity that combine the need for both psychiatric assistance and medical treatment due to the implications of this pathology for integral health. For those cases... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...complexity that combine the need for both psychiatric care and medical treatment due to the implications of this pathology for integral health. For these cases, a distribution of hospitalization resources was proposed, with rotation between them, incorporating these pathologies into those treated within the subordinate units and rehabilitation of psychiatric hospitals. On the other hand, the severity of the consequences of these pathologies and their characteristics of chronicity and associated disability makes them able to evolve, in effect, towards the serious mental disorder, but this is why the provision of socio-health, residential and other resources was raised as a resource. Creation of therapeutic intermediate structures, therapeutic eaters. These types of structures are intended for clinical assistance in cases of severe medium intensity, and are structures with an efficient and successful approach to the control and management of these profiles. This resource is not limited exclusively in time or intensity to the specific issues of food, but has a broad approach, either in the hospital or in the outpatient clinic. Outpatient programme to assist with eating disorders. This is a program associated with clinical assistance in cases of low-medium severity. It is distributed by different organizations in all territories with a (...) sufficient and a degree of experience, excellence, technical and successful results. Following this reflection and in a consistent way with it, since 2016, the following have been created: the day-to-day hospital with the therapeutic dining activity at OSI Donostialdea, the day-to-day hospital with the therapeutic dining activity at OSI in Araba, the day-to-day hospital with the therapeutic dining activity for adolescents with eating disorders at OSI Galdakao-Barrualde. Yesterday the Basque Parliament urged us to continue to develop and strengthen the community model, autonomy of people with mental health problems, continuity of care, accessibility to the system, comprehensive care, equity, gender perspective, recovery as a care model and quality. And he also asked us that, in accordance with the strategic thinking on mental health - the one we are initiating - we promote cross-cutting priority issues, addressing the sustainability and quality of the system and guaranteeing the rights of users, such as the promotion of mental health, the fight against stigma suffered by people with mental health problems; special attention to child-to-child mental health, prevention of suicide. This mandate includes disorders of eating behaviour. Well, with the constitution of the Euskadi Mental Health Advisory Council, it has been proposed and approved the creation of a new monographic group on eating disorders that will review the existing scientific evidence and propose the relevant recommendations, both in methodology and in possible resources that might be necessary if they so conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u125	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. The disorders of food behavior – the TCAs – are certainly not, as I said, a whim. I believe that you, Madam Counsellor, are aware of the reality we are talking about, and if you should not be. But I don't think you can make a clean slate and do a homogeneous treatment for these people with the rest of the psychiatric diseases, even with the attention given to other pathologies and other mental illnesses. You can't make a razor board. And it gives the feeling hearing the testimony of these people that, on occasion, they are treated as mentally ill and that they do not know exactly how to address the problem they specifically present, and that it is a very specific problem. I mean, I think it's all too often... This isn't just about medication, this isn't just about one person, locking her in a room and giving her a reward and punishment system. This is a lot more than that, Counselor. We are talking about giving adequate, sufficient and, above all, effective attention. And it is clear that when we have people who have a eating behavior disorder – a TCA – twenty-one years is that the results in the different phases, in the different resources have not been effective. And I think there's a reflection there to do. That is, we cannot blame these people, which gives the feeling that many times too, on certain occasions, we must say that they are blamed. They feel guilty about these new relapses. In the end, it's a situation that isn't easy to get out of. And it's not easy to get out when we're seeing that twenty so many years a person is in these situations, with peaks, with highs and lows. Of course, you were talking to me about the Mental Health Strategy. But, within this Mental Health Strategy that is going to be developed, it seems to us very well that TCAs are being treated, but with a very specific vision. But we're talking about something more than a mental health strategy. You said that a monographic group, a working group, has been set up to deal with this issue. I hope it results. But let it yield results taking into account the increases in cases to which I have referred; increases in cases that are already moving into increases in diagnoses and increases in consultations, and increases in income. In other words, there is an increase in the disorders of food behaviour - of APTs - that need to be addressed. And there is a need to strengthen existing resources, both from a human and a material point of view. Of course, you were telling me that the previous team or working group did not consider it appropriate to create a specialized unit because it did not bring value. I have to say that I was surprised by this statement, because then in other autonomous communities, without going any further, in the Community of Madrid, other autonomous communities where these units exist, I don't know what value, then... So, I don't know how things are done, but these units... And see if they show value that patients from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, who are registered here and who are supposed to have to receive and who have received care in Osakidetza, decide to leave. I therefore believe that it is clear that these specialized units of food conduct disorders bring value. I'm the only one who asks you... Yes, in the end, it's about moving forward. I believe that this initiative should serve for the lady... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ...food. I'm the only one who asks you... If in the end it's about moving forward. I believe that this initiative should serve to... Madam Counsellor, if that working group has already been set up, it is phenomenal. I... Welcome. But of the constitution and the work that will be carried out in that group what they have to... What measures need to be put in place must be concluded. And if you believe that this unit is not created, I believe that these families must, of course, be given the possibility that, if they have to move to other autonomous communities, they will be reimbursed for that money, because they cannot run for it. Or that agreements be made with private entities. There are formulas. You know there are many formulas. When before we have also talked about private public collaboration. But this cannot involve a disbursement to the families, and to the Basque families, when the attention is not being paid here, or that they need, and they are going elsewhere. In short, Madam Councillor, I, apart from announcing that we have requested the appearance of Aitziber and Alexandra in the Health Committee and have the opportunity to hear your testimony, will present a motion. And we'll file a motion, but we'll be ready for the deal. And I hope that you will also be sensitive to this important issue. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u126	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u127	Mrs. Garrido. See if we don't make a clean picture that we are beginning to reflect on the new Mental Health Strategy and we already have a specific group to deal precisely with the disorders of food behavior in an integral way. But you cannot take me from there, as you usually like, to everything, and stop recognizing that there are resources, means, protocols and programmes in Euskadi - I don't know if you have them in Madrid - for the assistance of people who suffer from eating disorders. And, moreover, it has been since 1998. Differently. Integrating it into other services does not mean that it is not differentiated. And that must be acknowledged. Because there are many people also - and with all my respect for those present - who have been through these services and have managed to reschedule and are successful. We try to adapt to the needs of each person. But you also know that illness, especially in the case of mental illness, can not always, not always, reach the right result with the same resolution. The care circuit, besides you know it, starts here in Primary Care and from there, moreover, are derived to the mental health network. And depending on the severity, it's when we determine whether they serve through the mental health network or through the hospital's external consultations. You see, moreover, that we have diversity of offers. I don't know what happens in other communities. And in case, in addition, of needing hospital admission, we already do it in our own services, even if there is no such specific unit. But there are also occasions when day hospital treatment is much more appropriate. And you seem to be focusing on a single solution. And that when this solution, even being not available in our hands, if we see that it can be effective from that knowledge of the people who are ours and our professionals, on numerous occasions we find it in collaboration with other entities. Of course I do. When it is considered, when it is considered, that this is indeed indicated by the professionals of our health service who follow up these patients. The diversity of resources within our network is broad. In Bizkaia, at OSI Basurto there are two programs for children and adolescents for the whole territory of Bizkaia with the attention in turn tomorrow that includes food and rest. In adults, outpatient psychiatric consultations, a specific day hospital with therapeutic dining activities maintained by nursing and, in addition, psychiatric support and clinical psychology. In Uribe and Ezkerraldea, outpatient consultations. In Ortuella and Getxo, specific day hospital with therapeutic dining activity of the psychiatric service. In Barrualde, outpatient visits, day hospital with therapeutic dining activity. Day hospital in Galdakao, a specific hospital for adolescents with eating disorders, also with therapeutic dining activity. In Gipuzkoa, outpatient consultations in the mental health network of Gipuzkoa. In Donostia, Eibar, Renteria specific day hospital with therapeutic dining activity in the psychiatry service of the OSI of Donostialdea. In Araba, outpatient consultations and intensive program with psychiatry and psychology, in addition, and specific day hospital with therapeutic activity. Do you really believe that we are not trying to give the best of solutions to each of these people? Yes, we are. Yes, we are. Unfortunately, not always, not always, we can solve all the problems. But, of course, with all of them we try. And, besides, you know that Osakidetza not only works with other entities elsewhere, but within it also does it online. And, therefore, adapt each of these resources to the availability of any of our citizens. I repeat, let us not say either that Euskadi has no resources or that it has no effectiveness in resolving these eating disorders. Soon, I say again, we will have a new strategy. But taking into account the sustainability, the quality of the system, guaranteeing the rights of users and from the knowledge of professionals, we will try to improve everything in our hands. There's no doubt about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barrius Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the Court of Equality, Justice, and Society of the Police, was made to run at the Twenty-second. "about the opposite expressions of life that have been in the edition." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u129	Yeah. Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor. Good. My group was very concerned about the political use made of Korrika in its last edition. And, Mrs Artolazabal, you are the advisor to the branch, as you are the advisor to coexistence and coexistence policies in this country. I asked the Culture Advisor because he's the one who pays most of the Korrika bill. But there is another dimension that is not that of linguistic policy, which is already serious because of the use of Basque as... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... That he's the one who pays most of Korrika's bill. But there is another dimension which is not that of linguistic policy, which is already serious because of the use of Basque as an element of confrontation. And it is that of the frameworks of coexistence, the exercise of coexistence in this country. From within the organization, the character of the heritage of the whole of the Basque region has been manipulated to politicize its cultural and social expression and to try to make it a vindictive symbol of division and rupture. The 22nd edition of the march in favor of the Euskera has become a constant expression of radical provocations, of disrespect for the victims of terrorism and of an obscene display of characters, slogans, attitudes, which deteriorate our coexistence. For this reason, I believe that in the responsibility you have, an assessment and what measures the Basque Government intends to take to defend the values of our coexistence, which have been confronted by the unfortunate attitudes of Korrika, we thank you for the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u131	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea, salilburua, Mr. Barrio, barkatu. I'm not going to disappoint you in today's answer. You will understand that my answer has to be and is the same as Mr Bingen Zupiria did 15 days ago in this very Parliament. Korrika is a social initiative in defense and demand of the promotion and normalization of the Basque. It is a citizens' initiative that provides a lot of plural and multiplicity of support, and that is the normalization of the euskera a demand shared by the vast majority of this country, which cannot be used or manipulated. I myself participated in two kilometers in the Korrika both in Gasteiz and in Bilbao, and we had a double intention, right?, or we had a double objective: to work for the Basque and to work for diversity. Because I am convinced that Basque can and must also be a factor of integration and coexistence in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u133	Thank you very much, President. Thank you for the answer, counselor, and working for the Basque, and working for coexistence, which I say again is your negotiation too, because you have a very ambitious plan, a strategic plan in relation to coexistence, with human rights, the Udaberri 2024 plan. And this situation, which has occurred with Korrika, is faced with the different lines of its plan of coexistence, according to its plan of coexistence, which clearly states that it places the victims as a fundamental pillar of the Basque Agenda of coexistence. That is important, and it also has many very interesting proclamations of that plan. Therefore, its course of action, one, to advance and consolidate the policies of recognition and reparation of the victims of terrorism, that course of action has been seriously attacked. This strategic line has been attacked, as Korrika has had expressions of recognition not to the victim, but to the victim, to the killers, to those responsible for the violence. And in addition, its line of action number six, to promote initiatives and meeting spaces that favor the culture of coexistence, another important line, to favor those spaces, because Korrika has been a space of disagreement and confrontation, and that is an element that we have seen that it has been another attack, in addition, an attack financed with public money. That's a space of distance, of disencounter, of aggression. That is, the euskera as a cultural factor would have to be, not confrontational, as a cohabitation factor, not divisional. And that is a fundamental element on the approach that you have to take, right?, to reaffirm, of course, as you say, the radical political and social delegitimization of the culture of coexistence as a strategy of political action, which is what you say in the plan of coexistence, and that is what has happened. That is why, and I say again focusing on the plan of coexistence, this hopeful look becomes a preoccupied look at various expressions of violence and intolerance and sectarianism that still emerge in our environment. This has been one of them, and this is the best example. That is why, Mrs Artolazabal, I ask you strategically too, and depending on the plan of coexistence we have, what approach of action your department has in relation to this situation, because this cannot be kept like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u134	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u135	Mr Barrio, like any popular and mass initiative, there have also been minority individuals and groups in Korrika who have tried to exploit and manipulate for their own benefit, and it must be recognized that they are small groups who have tried to patrimonize the meaning of a party for their own particular interests. But they did not, and their attempt deserves our strongest and most radical criticism. And without warm cloths, Mr. Barrio, I tell you that we do not share the behavior of those who have wanted to take advantage of Korrika for other purposes. You know that I am a front-line activist in the defense of victims' rights, and in that we are not going to make a competition, because it would seem absurd to me. You also know that I have denounced the ongi etorris as an expression of support for the culture of violence and humiliation of the victims, and that I am fortunate to believe that they are already overcome at this time. This firm and robust condemnation must be compatible with the defence and active exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression. And our attitude must always be to protect both legal areas: the dignity of victims, of course, and freedom of expression. And it is from this position that I reiterate my political criticism of any... and every attempt to manipulate the meaning of the original Korrika claim, which is nothing more than the normalization of the Basque language in Euskadi. I reiterate my political criticism of the exhibition of photographs of prisoners of ETA or of any other symbolology alien to the unitary and shared sense of mobilization, because normalization of the euskera, yes; euskera as a vehicle of integration, yes; freedom... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to the unitary and shared sense of mobilization. Because normalization of the euskera, yes. Euskera as an integration vehicle, yes. Freedom of expression, yes. Try to take advantage of Korrika for other purposes, no. Radically not. And these are our principles and convictions, Mr Barrio, and I have repeated it to you and we have said it to you as active and passive. And what action does the Government intend to take, for you yourself have said so. We have this plan of coexistence, the plan Udaberri 2024. There are 70 actions that are detailed in this Human Rights, Co-existence and Diversity Plan. And they are actions that they seek to contribute to building a model of coexistence between all of us based on principles, ethical and democratic values. And there, Mr. Barrio, we'll find ourselves safe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interfection, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Team Members made for Cultura and the head of the Language Politics, to assure you of the rights of the people by change of '86/1997 Decree'." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u137	Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mr. Zupiria. Aber on the road we'll meet. You'll agree that we're in the Public Administration at a significant moment for different reasons. On the one hand, there will be a change of generation during these years, all that is supposed to be. On the other hand, we have already heard the process of stabilization will be solved with all its consequences, and all this seems to have caused a stir in the circle of the eucalyptus, and especially in respect of language. Or rather, they want to create a discussion and force some artificially. Very interested and very malicious. They're imagining that the Euskade is a problem. They're trying to establish a frame of the problem in the administration. Some have set up the whole artillery for the revolt of lies and for the revolt of the administration. They're not planning to keep it the same, or to keep it up, but what they're planning on is retreating. Without considering how far we have attained by long years' resolutions and rules, we have succeeded in euphora. The context we haven't taken into account. Not to mention that young generations are already eucalyptic. But what's worse, regardless that Euskal Autonomy is the official language in Erscany and that we have a natural language in the Basque Country. It is necessary that the public administration should fulfil certain conditions which must be observed in the rest of the world, and in each sphere. Working in public administration is not a right. And the Public Administration has to offer to the people a social service, proper answers, rights, and as we're talking about language today, the Public Administration has to guarantee the rights of language too. We should be wondering how we could improve this one. What do we have to do to make it better? Public administration guarantees quality service? What do we have to do with this sense of improvement? The administration guarantees the local language rights? What do we have to do to make it better? In a word, what could we have done to improve our situation and not to go back? I think we should think about that. It's been 40 years. It's been 40 years since the Basque Act was accepted, the 82th Act. It's been 25 years since the order of language requests has been accepted. How much rain it has rained since then, and how far we have been advancing in the cradle of society. But the times have changed much, and change more and more quickly; and we see that the established laws, the decrees, are no longer answering, and that they are exhausted to answer new times. And we're thinking about it, too, that it's the decision that's been made about... That's what he's made up of, isn't it? The change of several laws and decrees, because it was observed that the laws and decrees still remaining were extinct. In this Illus, there are at this moment many and important laws, by which, among other things, the principles of the language of the decades to come will be established. Be in the Law of Public Employment, in the professions of the sports world, and so forth. So, we're in a very important moment when it comes to rest. In this sense, in the administration of 86/97, you decided to change the decree to normalize the use of the eucalyptus. If we're wrong about the different groups of the legislature, the euscale −, which is the case with us, we're prepared to introduce the change you called governments, ask our opinion, and, well, let's make our contribution for −porting, good detall, because the decree generally changes the government, and it doesn't have to be consulted with this Chamber. Well, it's just that the teams made some kind of contribution. The order was examined by mimoz. The decree was to examine our love, and so we did, we examined it lovingly, we offered, but returned no answer. We don't know whether the contributions were successful or not, we don't know if you're going on with the treatment. And what we would like to know is, whether or not the change of the decree that the translator is following. And why do we want to know this? For two major reasons. On the one hand, though there were interesting contents in some areas where we saw the decree examined, it was a retrospective change, a change of step back. He didn't think of the contexts and euphoration levels we were in today... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... that it was a retrospective change, that he didn't consider the context we were in now and the level of euphoration. And so we saw that it would be difficult for us to reply to new times. And we don't know if the government has noticed it and changed its mind. That, in a way. And on the other hand, before the examination or modification of this decree can be proposed, or the change of the law of 82, that is to say, before we open the discussion of the political law, which we see from the back door, by other laws, that it is changing the policy by means of the law of public employment; And this doesn't mean that this is doing the government, but we can see that the two main parts in this house that support the government are moving in that direction in favor of the government. And all of this concerns us, we worry that the language for the next decades will be marked by the standards of the language, because we will mark the direction in which the language will continue. And we think that we can't do that without examining it from the back door. We think that would have to bring in another plan. And that has nothing to do with spring. The flexibility is one thing, and it is another; for here, we are all ready to act supplely, we want to think this −. What's flexibility and one more thing to do with it? Two concepts are quite different. And in this sense we have also made proposals to be able to do with the law of public employment, the professions of sports, etc., and so on. Now, look at the situation we're in, because we're in this Chamber or Government where we want to know, Mr. Zupiria, what steps you're going to take to stand firm in the service of the Administration. So let us resume the language of the people's rights among all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u139	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, Mrs. Ubera, all good days. 25 years of Decrea, a decree which regulates the normalization of the Eucal Autonomy in the Espromia Eremia administration in 1997 since it was accepted. Based on this decree, a great effort has been made in the Esscal administration during these years. Many of the workers have shown the attachment to this process, and have taken important steps to promote the use of it in the public sector of our community. When the decree 97 started, only 20 of the 100 workers in the administration were able to operate in one way or the other. Last year's evaluation gave us some very different data. Today, from 100 employees in Public Administration 81, the ability to understand written or verbal text, and 71 to speak or write. The language of the workers has increased and improved its ability. And this is why important steps have been taken in the way to ensure the language of the people's rights. But not just that. The decree which has been established has also served to normalize the corpuse of the Basque and the state. The legal language is entirely stopped. At the same time, we have administration papers and neural translators. And we're absorbed in the correlated balls, and we're in the world of technology to recognize the voice. Even in the state we've taken strong steps in the way of normalization. We are beginning to exceed a thoroughly digestive state, and to place ourselves by degrees in front of the Spanish eucalyptus by means of plans, and by initiative in the techniques of eucalogy. During the previous period of the legislation, two acts of this case were conducted in the Basque Parliament. The first, in May 2017, the legislature admitted the following arrangement by a full correction made by the Julian proposition to another; "Eusko Lawdun wants to go on and on with the process of adapting and updates of language, including the new value of jobs on the list of jobs to modernize the Basque Administration." 2017ko abenduan beasts ekimen bat aurkeztu zuen Elkarrekin We can taldeak Kultura Batzordean. Bertan izandako eztabaidaren ondoren, honako ekaria egin zitzaion Jaurlaritzari 2017ko abenduan: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy to analyse and send to the Basque Parliament within six months a proposal to update Decree 86/1997, regulating the process of normalising the use of Basque in public administrations, to study the possible incorporation of all levels of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages by combining their skills differences, and taking into account Hakoba's proposal in this regard. It also takes into account, among other issues, the adequacy of linguistic profiles and the optimisation of the process of normalization of the use of euskera in public administration." Eubertarians, the Basque Socialists, urged us together to renew the decree of 97, to examine the combination of language's capabilities in the European frames, and to optimize the normal use of support in popular administrations. In other words, a decree from 97, that we are now adapted to the characteristics of society. We've done a lot of effort to comply with the legal application. On the one hand, because the decree affects thousands of workers and villages directly... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... We've done a lot of effort to comply with the legal application. On the one hand, the decree affects thousands of workers and villages directly. And, on the other hand, because it is not easy to obtain the exact agreement of the agents of various experience and ideology. Considering the importance and the echo of the matter, we have discussed hundreds of experts and interests in the past five years, informing them, negotiated with them, and receiving their contributions, corrections, and proposals. And before we proceed, I mean that no one left us in this process alone, and that we have all been offered and helped. Although we sometimes think in very different ways, and thank God for all of us. In order to give more detail to the decree, from 2017 to 2022, we have made about 85 meetings: With political parties, 15; with unions, 6; with other departments and institutions, 30; We have entered three times, a meeting with the capitals, a meeting with the forum aldudias, 2 with the Eudel, 1; a special meeting of the Basque Council, with the council, two assemblies, and 18 other legal meetings with the technicians of the department, and we are using the platform with different techniques from the Autonomy Hospitals. We have received a great deal of contributions and suggestions from these meetings, and our plan was to reply one by one to all these contributions. Among them was the EH Collect presented. And that's what we started, but seeing the amount and the size of the contributions, it was impossible for us to answer all of us. This does not mean that we have not taken notice of the recommendations of our party, as we shall see when the decree is public. It is evident that we have determined the most open and party proceedings, for this decree's record, and that the part is not yet over. We're giving the text the last touches right now. On the one hand, from the point of view of the law and the legal language, and on the other, the text has been written in eucalypably, and in order to give it a unity with the text. As soon as these combs are ready, the text will begin its tramite through our reach. And at its very moment the text will also give occasion to public order, or beginning, and in this case every one of its interests will still be able to give an account of the facts on the text. The government provides a special importance to this decree. as the law of Eucharacy established that the rights of language are common to the people, and that it belongs to the administration, or that it is proper for them to respect and respect those rights. The institutions of the public sector serve the people of the Basque Autonomia of Erdigo, and as our fellow-citizens are more and more eloquent, such must be the services which our national institutions provide. It gets better and better and bigger and better. And that's what we'll try to do. Some characters of the decree between our hands are very brief. In the first place, it'll be indirect and complete. For the first time he'll take over the whole public sector and everybody, inside his head and other organizations. So it's the purpose of co-ordination of different normalization processes which have taken place here and there. Second, efficiency. We believe at this moment that the main challenge is not to be resisted by the workmen, because they are strongly guaranteed. Now the challenge is the use of the euphora; and the decree makes a clean wager over the eucalyptic titles for the use of the eucalyptus. We want the decree to be reborn. The new decree will always hold up some of the principal concepts of the previous decree (consistence? In the name of the largest. And so the calculation of the index of necessity. The rating of the Basque in the process of selection will remain exceptions and such. We want you to be a reformer. Even if the Decree has retained some preceding concepts, it will also produce a great deal of innovation with the former. He proposes to insert the Basque management into the general management of the organizations, insists the importance of the leadership, and he wishes to guarantee the concept of language and to develop it fully. That's what wants to determine the criteria for using official languages, strategic plans and management plans. He foresees special scans for those who have disappointments. And the candidate can get a job without a title or an exception without presenting the certificate to the rescue, if he makes and cancels all expected tests in the selection. And we want it to be progressive. The purpose of the new decree is not to keep all the articles from one day to another. For many institutions will first enter the sphere of decree, and will require time to take steps. And finally supple. The new decree, instead of the four scenes of language, will be equal to six lines of eucaurs lined up with the frames of Europe. And with the new system it will be easier for us to adapt the steps to the cradle to the character of each job. A lot of thieves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u140	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u141	Mr. Zupiria. Well, it's clear that you're following up with the change in the Order 97. In accordance with the order received in this chamber... that you're adapting yourselves. But what we want to ask of you is that this adaptation may not be looking back, for adaptations can be advanced or retrospective, and may be truly answerable to the future. Softly, but not looking back. And this effort must be directed to the future. It's all right and it's very kind of you to have a meeting, to share it. But what we ask of you is to take a step further from it, and to agree with the eucalypation. And we're all here, at least from the EH Collect, and we'll shake hands with you in that job. [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... To take a step and agree with euphoria. And the groups we're here, at least we're giving you our hand from the EH Union to deal with this task. On the other hand, what we want you to ask us is not to be able to get through while it goes on, but the means may be dangerous, and this kind of operation is usually slow and the back doors have to be closed. And that means, in the laws we are getting, that we can't take a step back in the criteria of language. Don't forget, don't forget, that the generations of generations, of decades, will be conditioned. We are seeing that new generations, young ones, have an enormous commitment to push them forward to the eucalyptus. They're showing their commitment, see if they're setting up a platform in the Euskara, tomorrow there'll be a movitisation in the Donost. On the other hand, we want to offer our support and to promote our affection for that commitment to the Basque expedition and for that effort. If you like, Mr. Zupiria, we can both go to the mutation together, have a cup of coffee first, can't we? I think they'll take us open-handed, because there's no one left to push us forward to the rest, and there, both here and in the street, there's a lot of work to do. We should give the quantum leap to escape from that artificial frame some want to build. This is the artificial frame of what is to be expected to escape from this artificial discussion, and especially the laws, which are already exhausted, the criteria, and the construction of a new legislature, will look into the future. I mean, we have to open the box, but not to back it up, it can't be flexibility to back it up, it can go on. For otherwise the message which we are giving will be that the rights of the people are of no importance, that the nerve is worthless even though it is an official language. And what we're going to say is that I've learned it from it, but then it's not an important matter. And the worst part is that this way we won't have the Administration destroyed. On the other hand, you've given me the date (... ), changed, you said, "then 20% of them weren't capable." And you said, "Now 80% has the potential." So, if you make a comparison, I don't know, maybe I don't understand. So we think it's time for a qualitative step to push forward to the eucalyptus, to the future, to live with it and to make a stand for it, to guarantee the language of the people. We should draw contemporary ways, Mr. Zupiria. What we need is contemporary with that path. And we're ready to go on that road together to draw the picture of that road with you. But to make this drawing, we need tools to draw that path, and we need to update the tools. I mean, we have to open the box. We have to re-open the tools in the box. And what are these instruments? These instruments are the law of 82, decree of 97, etc., we have the law of public employment and several instruments. We need to renew our tools to respond to new times in this Basque process to push new generations. And the question is, Mr. Zupiria, what do you say? Should we open that box together and reopen those tools? We're ready to go that way to make that painting. I don't know how you see it and you have integrity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u143	President andrea. Ms. Ubera, I'd like to explain this because maybe I'm the one who said wrong and not what you misunderstand. But I thought it was a very important piece of data. What I meant was in '97, when the decree came to force itself to operate in one way or another from 100 workers. Last year, according to our study, 81 has the ability to understand written or verbal text and 71 to speak or write. After all these meetings we've made, as I said, we've received several proposals. And among these proposals, I particularly wish to be grateful to them all, and I wish to mention what we have received, and to include in the text of the decree which we are working on. And we have received specific proposals from the Social Party of the Basque Society, together from the People of Podemos, EH Collector, from ELA and Costinis, from the United States, from the United States, between the DESIMS, the Osacians, the Security, the Education, and the IVAP; the members of HABABA, the Araba, Bizkai, and the Gipuzicus, from the Towns of Bilbo, the Ejests, and the UMA; The previous decree has been in force for 25 years. I don't know how much the news will give, but it has a long-seeing look. The object, as I have said, is to confer the greatest service on the people, and in a society which is more and more eloquent, the services of quality are required to be the most eloquent of all answers. This is not easy. It belongs to the normalization of language, but it belongs to other ideological, sentimental, and identical accounts, and we know how difficult it is to calm and satisfy all views. But the object of all our meetings has been to obtain as much suppleness as possible the most extensive agreement. It will soon be at the tramita, starting point, to make that text its course. Time... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it will soon be at the tramita, at its starting point, to make that text its course. It should be open long before any one with interest can contribute to it. And it'll be time to pick up even more points of view, and if we can keep all the balance, to pick them up too. And tomorrow's plan is at Amaiur, Mrs. Ubera. The Basques and the government of Navarre have invited me to the end of the month. He'll have a speech in the lobby, and I've made an appointment to join that event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u144	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo García Together Podemos, a member of the Society for Cultura and the head of the political department of Language, in relation to the treatment given to the legislative citizen." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u145	If you'll excuse me, Counselor. Eguerdi on guztioi. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Throughout the history of Parliament, laws on popular initiative have rarely reached the end of their journey. Of the 30 initiatives that have been registered in these 40 years, less than half have come into consideration; and of these, a few, three or four, have become law. On May 5, we had the wonderful opportunity to hear Itziar Guerendiain defend popular legislative initiative for an unconditional basic income in this very Parliament. An initiative that our group supported, let's face it. But, beyond exalting the work of the platform, we have come to denounce the little protagonism that has been given to this popular initiative in the ETB news. That same day neither Gaur Egun nor Teleberri, on the ETB2, which is the most seen newscast of all Euskadi, had the news presence in them. That is why, from our parliamentary group, we ask you what assessment the Basque Government deserves of the treatment given in the EITB to the popular legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u146	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u147	Bai. President andrea. Yellow angle, I don't think you've come to ask. He's here to report it, he's already reported it. And that's it, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u148	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u149	Well, yes. I've come to report it. And that's how I did it. Obviously, when from the government and from the government bodies, such as the ETB, there is no group like the one that presented the popular legislative initiative, I think it is my duty to denounce it. And we find it incomprehensible that initiatives that are born from within the Government have an informational deployment and are widely covered day after day, while initiatives that are born from the citizenry itself, as is the case, initiatives that are very difficult to carry out, which require a series of very complicated requirements, at the end of the process are empty. And I'm going to set a couple of examples, so that they'll also be recorded. For example, I am going to talk about, saving the distances, of the RGI, which was at the control plenary on 6 May it was announced that its processing had been completed, and on the 10th it was approved in the Governing Council. And from that day until today, on the EITB website, we find ten news stories. While in the news of the ILP it is only one. With Mr Urkullu's birth plan, he spends three quarters of the same. On Wednesday, May 18, he was offered nine minutes of the beginning of the news, compared to the zero minutes that the popular initiative has achieved. Then when we wonder why from civil society and from ordinary Basque society there is a disaffection between politics and parties and society, because I think that, instead of looking and instead of doing so many reflections out, we should do more reflections inward. See how we represent them. And in this case, of course, it was none.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u150	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u151	Yes, Mr. Angulo, I respect your point of view. Next Monday, EIB Administration Council has a meeting, and your delegates have a chance to ask them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-20.u152	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the entire gathering. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon, at forty o'clock.
