ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u0	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, everyone. Please. All right, everyone, take your seats, please. We're going to have a full meeting. Good morning. I inform you that Gustavo Angulo, a member of the legislature, has left his vote to the spokesman. The only thing. The monographic discussion, the outcomes of the Ukranine War, to protect EAE economics and people, in the circle of his hands, about the necessary measures to be taken. The next round of the contractors of the EH Collectors who made this proposal. Mrs. Irrie has the initiative to introduce her and take her off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u1	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. The cry for freedom is never vain, and less so is Europe, and consequently the Basque People in the presence of this political, humanitarian, and economic crisis. Nay, this proclamation is necessary. It is necessary to work in favor of the civil and political rights of every man, and to penetrate into the struggle in individual and collective rights. After all, the history of Europe has shown us that. that the most effective means of resisting the war is to penetrate into freedom. And therefore I am strongly inclined to assert that I reject the invasion of Ukraine, and proclaim all the rights of all men, which disturb the horrors of war. That's why, first of all, I want to remember the people who are still dying in the invasion: children, women, men. In this invasion and in many other wars. As I wish you to remember, children, women, and men who run away from that war and so many others. We're a village in the lobby. It is a worthy reception, an obligation to make without discrimination for all these persons. We're a reception village because we've been a people who has been running away. Because they had to run away from this village, thousands of people, because we know this suffering closely. I went down to this attril on the first day, and another was fleeing from several wars, killing thousands of people in the Mediterranean, and some coming to us. It's almost inadmissible, tragic polyxene, activity, self-control (... I brought a few words which I would like to remember again to-day. - L.E.A. - Part of that no son de nin. I brought them for its depth. Nowhere. (Of the country? .). (The country? It is the fear that they will open in a closet, or the fear that no one will open. That's how the mountain felt. We are the children of Guernica. the men of Guernica, the men of Durangon, the Osostians, the sons of Bilbai, the sons of Archanda. We are a people raised from destruction. People who want peace. In our small part, we have no one in the most important decisions which are cultivated by the principal variables of this terrible crisis, either in the political or in the economic sphere, but they have other decisions that are to us. We must begin to think once and seriously where we will see this people in the future: in the world where this people must have their own voice, or where we must live by others' servants. This also has been shown in this difficult situation. We're short of tools. Beyond association, and solidarity is very important, and the whole of it is an important flower in this country. But beyond this, for instance, we lack tools to watch the refugees. In order to protect the people, to answer the hinges with which we have tools. In a world where sovereigns are shared, we need plenty to share. But (fixed? But though we do not speak in large parts, yet this does not mean that we can do nothing. We can do it, and a lot of it. We're talking about the Basques and us, the Araba, the Biscaia and the gym... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... though we have not a word in great things, yet that does not mean that we can do nothing. We can do it, and a lot of it. We know that the inhabitants of the Basques and of us, the inhabitants of Arba, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, are in a state of panic; they are afraid of streetfacing, they cannot believe the prices when they go to vomit fuel. The result of electric energy, when companies say not to work, their heart shrinks. Eta hemen, derigorrez, zifra eta zenbaki asko aztertu beharko ditugu, bainsa oso kontziente izan behar dugu zifra eta zenbaki horien shenetik personsonez hitz egiten ari garela. Ukraineatik etorita, gurean babesa topatu nahi duten persononak, argiaren faktura ordaindu ezin duten persononak, egoera hau eskandalutzat jotzen duten persononak, azken batan, beldurtuta bizi nahi ez duten persononez, etorkizun hobea izazko lan eta boroka egiteko prest daden persononez. And even if it is six weeks late, we are finally talking in this Parliament about the very serious crisis we experienced after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Euskal Herria Bildu has endeavoured to bring this debate here after overcoming the obstacles of various groups, because we believe that it is our responsibility, that of all of us, to offer certainty and certainty to the citizenry, because we believe that in the midst of the temporary we have before us an opportunity to prove that we are a responsible society, capable of facing the great challenges we face since the agreement. Capable of truly putting the common interest ahead, and today we have the opportunity to prove it, and I hope we do not miss it. We can take a step in that direction today, see if it's a big step or a small step. We have an opportunity to fulfill the supreme function of this legislature, that is, to improve the life of the people. And here we are, and I repeat, because we believe that the Basque People have insisted that the gravity of the situation compels us to measure them all. Some groups took this initiative with contempt, and in some rude and sometimes offensive, but we think it's not an option to wait. This situation requires a good reading of the historic moment, to see that the crisis is repeating, that the profound crisis, and that for a long time it will bring us instability. This government cannot continue to react, as they did in the pandemonium, until they saw that there was no other remedy, and waiting with crossed fingers. Again and again, Mr. Urkullu, I have held out my hand to you for this time. Every time I've dropped at the door during the forty-four days, I've been asking you to join me every time, and I've handed you my hand for the job. Again and again, Mr. Urkullu. It took us forty-four days to get together, and fifty-four days of crawling up to make this monographic. No sleep there was propicados, no sido Euscala City... Like I said, we think it's not an option to wait. I've already said that we're a small town, and unfortunately we don't have a voice in many places, we don't have a voice in the main decisions. "Y es es una reflexixion, este dilema cbrapecular relevancia en momento en el que se producendido una demonstrationnes equentes de cabilio de ciclo histrico." There's no sign sign sign that I'm a lejos, lo decé antes, que no podamos hacer nada. No solo potemos, sino que debemos ofrecerda y protección a la Ciudadía exprimido nuestro potential. This town has known how difficult it is to answer. As this people are capable of modification by political ambitions, by common views, by equal views, by equal views of the world. This nation has created the co-operatives, the powerful communities, the strong communities, the strong citizens, have been built, and it has been able to prevent this people from losing the progress of modern organization. And that is why he lives, and remains alive, a language, a culture, a means of production, a nation of protection, born of the country, and able to give it to the people, based on his own small, democratic prax, and commoner. We must be able to do this again. We live in an exceptional situation, the covid-19 pandemy, and the crisis which it brought in, the invasion of Ukraine has been overdone, and the challenge we have faced has been enabled to challenge several civilizations. We're almost unaware that this week, but this very week, the international climate reminded us that the emergency climate has not disappeared, that it has increased, that the deadlines are shortening. This puts us all in a very crude way in front of the mirror. We stand before rapid, profound, and numerous changes, in a time when one after the other does not rest. That's why we say we're even in front of a season change. The predictions of the apostles of the globally integrated market have fallen one after the other, and the posts which looked so stable are in a tremble. Look, we've seen him for the last two years and learned that a little virus has been able to shake him a lot, that our life has been able to change. We've seen and learned that interfering with a ship in a channel can put it in the global supply chain. We have learnt and seen that the danger of closing an excretion can completely exterminate the economy of the scale of a continent. Butterfly effect, equulability on the planetary scale, as sign of time. In this unstable context, we must be able to answer the hinges that this severe state of our scale has placed us, we are obliged to reply to the necessary situation in this state, and it is necessary that we should take up our decisions which we must look a little, and not delay. We speak of the economy of protection before a horrible context that causes or reveals war. When the people are protected, the restrictions, the sacrifices, the tights, the time when people see a general poverty... There's a chance he'll make a profit. The stockholders of weapons are hoping to be on the threshold of a golden age, with great electric companies on the whole account... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... the stocked weapons have the hope of standing on the threshold of an age of gold, the great electric companies have found a chance of multiplying the profits. We are in a state of great uncertainty, which marks the end of a globalization age. Defined inflation is the result of the rise of the most radical products, which, beyond the unstable influence of war, answers to the end of cheap fossil fuels. And similarly, the result of the financial financial crisis of the year-of-religation, in order to fund the public debt created to promote financial systems with very low interests, we find one of the global and Domated economy. And now we have to answer some questions. How can we answer this situation? To what degree can we answer this situation, and to what degree can we face it with the rules of games which have hitherto been the case? And are we just in time to take the necessary measures, or the necessary measures, and the commercial measures? Since the outbreak of the pandemic, we have been managing the situation supposedly temporary, through shock measures aimed at alleviating the situation of the most vulnerable sectors. The situation resulting from the war in Ukraine now demands a redoubled social effort to protect people and the productive fabric. We have to do this, of course, we have to do it urgently, but we do not think it is enough. We must assume that we are not facing a transient turbulence, but are entering an era marked precisely by turbulence. Exceptionality has now become a rule. In addition to emergency socio-economic measures, structural actions need to be designed. We cannot get out of here either with the policies that have left us in this situation of vulnerability or with temporary patches that, although necessary, will not be able to sustain indefinitely in time. The effort in public spending that emergency measures require cannot be sustained in time without transforming our social structures; otherwise, we will be engaged in cutting back. The cross facing us is, after all, to redistribute the wealth or to impoverish the people. The Basque Country is supposed to come to three main furrows. On the one hand, the intervention of the Eugetic Market. We cannot allow the first premises, by means of an immense war, to be an excuse for making an immense fortune at the expense of the impoverishing of the majority. There's been more than doubled a bill on one of the lights in the past year. Mygetic market, designed to optimize the gain by the powerful, has failed to offer a basic resource at reasonable prices. The total regulating of the price of energy would result in either deleting or at least reducing the tension that is constantly suffering from −. The intervention of public powers is in this sense a key to the stable price of energy, if the consequences are not destructive. And when I say an imperishable conclusion, I do not only mean the injury done to a man and a hundred producers, but also the neglect of the carbon which we must leave without delay. And that knot, that knot, the market won't let go. The public powers with which the direction is clear and the effective strategy wills and ability to implement it. And here, to-day, we have not been absorbed in it, and are the results: bad guys. On the other hand, we must look for the protection of the rebels. A public political commitment is necessary, and the projection attitude of this government is to encourage an agreement between economic and unional agents in order to prevent this crisis from causing thousands of workers to be impoverished again. According to the last report of the Labour Relations Council, the percentage of GDP spent on wage-earners has been further reduced by two points. This dynamic continues year after year in the last three decades, while capital gains and the share allocated to them in the distribution of GDP grow year after year. At the moment, despite the fact that the vast majority of people are salaried, these are those who already have 47% of the income generated. To this important fact must be added the strong historical increase of inflation, which, without a doubt, is already generating a great loss, a strong loss of the purchasing capacity of most people and family units. It is evident that this reality has a much more striking effect on certain sectors than on others. And I think this is very remarkable. The preparation for many people is a reality. And most of all it affects women, women who work in feminized sectors, young men, who are used by migrators in every way to pay less and worse, − partial contrasts, pratics, uncontradicted ones. You got to get your pay raise over the cracker. On the one hand, we need an agreement that guarantees an interprofessional minimum wage of its own in line with the social and economic reality of the territory. And the objective of this agreement is to ensure that beyond the agreements that may be produced in the framework of collective bargaining, there is a minimum reference that helps to reverse or at least lessen the process of standardisation described. On the other hand, it is necessary to promote an agreement that encourages collective bargaining and territorial agreements of their own to ensure wage increases that, in the face of the strong increase in the CPI, guarantee the reversal of the purchasing loss process and the wage devaluation described above. I've already spoken of the separation of wealth. It is well known that the different economic crisis in which we have lived during the last few years, which we have lived in a very continuous manner, has increased the differences; rich people richer and richer, and poor people become poorer and poorer. By bringing it to our scale, Caritas' Foessa's last report is significant: The amount of those with major material needs has gone up to 50% of the range, and the Ukranine war will increase this situation. Thousands of people... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... the amount of those who have serious materials has gone up 50% through the pandema, and the Ukranine war will increase this situation. The millions of people's chances are upside down right now. And we believe that there are thousands and thousands of people in this part of the Basque Country risking no mattress at all. The Basque Government's own data show that some of the population is experiencing real problems: more than 284,000 people need to reduce basic expenses, more than 103,000 do not cover basic expenses, more than 28,000 households have felt hungry, more than 40,000 have serious or very serious food problems, almost 40,000 people cannot have protein food every two days, and so on. And in this situation, and in living these severe deficiencies, they must face the elevation of prices and other romances which this crisis imposes. It is necessary that the most vulnerable persons should take proper measures to protect themselves, some of them immediately, so as to reach the end of the month and satisfy the necessities of the month, by improving the number of social preparations, and adapting the conditions of access to the means of protection. And they must be structured because this situation requires rethinking of our support system. Therefore, we must be able to face this new crisis, and we must be able to force a radical means to redistribute the wealth. These different political parties here must be conscious beyond the −abiological points, very conscious, that the present attorney system does not redistribute the wealth, and that we are obliged to give it the way to realize it, as a just attorney requires. The collection data were valued so far in an optimistic way: revenues were increased, but the way to collect was not looked at, to which the weight falls primarily on the popular classes, while the richest people and the companies with the most profits do not provide the public coffers in the proportion that corresponds to them. Tax benefits, quota reductions, incentives and a long time, are instruments that attack the system's progressiveness and help those who have the most do not pay the Treasury as much as it should. It is therefore urgent to raise the debate on much more progressive and equitable taxation, with fiscal pressure close to that of the most socially advanced European countries. The debate on a new taxation is open at global level and also in our nearest environment. This new taxation is an indispensable tool for the redistribution of wealth, and it has to incorporate novel aspects such as measures that enable ecological transition, sustainable economic development, measures that analyse gender bias in income and contribute to combating it, moving towards a tax system that bets on progress in equality between women and men, measures that guarantee sufficient resources to meet the needs of the most vulnerable sectors, increasingly pressing needs and those that need to be addressed by institutions. We have to prepare for the future. In this globalised world of Chaos there are not many certainties which we have given to the rest of the world. And this people deserves honesty in this sense; for to give simple answers to complex questions is irresponsible, partly because it makes them very dangerous to fall into self-criterious and backward solutions. We've done it as a village before, and now it's time to take decisive steps. And today, this town with our starting-point, it's time to save the hope signal. This is the first time that these political representatives of this country are to discuss and agree the exact measures to face the social and economic effects of war. We are standing in front of a system that has dragged out the structural problems of a war. He threatens our public affairs, he reinifies our cohesion, and therefore we must build an economy of protection. It is not hard enough to draw the situation if we do not say how we will treat people in such a situation. Hence we have discussed the necessity of an integral plan, which will receive articulate measures and measures taken in consistency to promote the economy of protection. The plan for the support of the people, the support of the economy, the employment, and the support of the poor welfare on the axis. For the people who live and work in this country, for those who will flee from the wars, for all that they want to live and work in the Basque Country. And, as I have said at first, we have to strengthen and emphasize the means of treating men of refugees, because they all have a decent reception and lack of discrimination. And we need tools for that, too. That's why Collecting the Basque Country has brought so many ambitious proposals to-day, possible, realists, placed in this frame we want to overcome, but for the moment. The proposals which may be given by precise measures, and by a more extensive political agreement. We've been considering the money that can be used from the expense of the budget for the first time. But we have also been wise in this, and have never been able to use this sum entirely. The necessary measures, which we may now conclude, and which we ought to have recourse to today. Waiting, I repeat, because it's not an option. And we think this is just a beginning. And all the intelligence of this people will be necessary to face the romances we have. To address without delay the deliberations on this and other structural measures we propose the establishment of a strategic forum, and we propose it as a consultative body for social political participation, with broad, flexible and variable entrepreneurial knowledge, an area of discussion for reflection on the overall strategy. We would seek shared responsibility, the overall vision, unibertsitateak, zentro teknologikoak, entreprerien ordezkaritza, langileena, sindikatuen bidez, ekonomia soziala, ekonomia... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... la responsabiladud compartida, la vision de conjunto, university, centro technto, delegation of corporations, workers' workers by unions, social economy, alternative economy, third sector, political parties, and every moment any agent that can contribute at any moment would be open. Because the shared responsibility and the solution will lead to this town where everyone's owns it. And this implies a shared pattern of government, which is more difficult for all of us all. But I'm convinced he's more productive. And I'm convinced, 21th. When we arrive at the first quarter of the century, we must change the ways of making politics. I thought it was very significant, for instance, what had happened to the European funds, and what I told you last day, Mr. President. We do not know the importance of the funds of Europe at this moment, as a people. You made a document with an interesting introduction, with some interesting points on it, and we tried to combine the projects, agreeing on a basis, and to agree with that list, but it wasn't possible. And now we don't know much. Our dependence is revealed one day, the other too, but now we are paying what we did not know how to do as a people. They believe in this people, both now and now, and even in the future. I'm hopeful. I've got a lot of hope in this town that's been running for ten days. We cannot fail, we cannot fail all the women and men of this country who have brought us here, and have given us a witness, to all who have brought this people here. A week ago, right here, I'm going to repeat what I said. And I said the Aizpea are the words of the mayor of the Zone that came here: "That hope is not to be expected, that we must build, considering what we desire to happen together, and to build with action. And we don't have time. We have to start working together." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Passing over to the rest of the teams, Mistata-Vox, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari. Counselors. Ladies and gentlemen. First, our most sincere support to all Ukrainians who are suffering the misery of an unjust and cruel war. I think it's essential to start there. We are facing a national crisis, a global problem, but we remain committed to managing everything as if the Basque Country were the center of the world. But it is not, as has been proven during the health crisis and as is evident in the energy prices we are suffering. I am very afraid that today we will again see that the solutions to the problems that we are now facing, that the necessary decisions to deal with the structural reforms that our system needs to protect us from the vagaries of energy and fuel prices, energy dependence and the consequences of the invasion of Ukraine must be taken outside this region, even in instances different from those of the Spanish Government. This is the reality and not another, even if there are those who are committed to giving the Basque Country a leading role that it does not actually have. But if we hit the key and awaken the consciousness of those who govern us, perhaps today we will come to some kind of agreement that will bring some relief to so many people that the current situation promises to bring to ruin, if it has not already done so. And the basis of that agreement will be that surprising savings of the Basque Government in times of pandemic, a billionaire remnant, absolutely incomprehensible in the current context in which we are in. For weeks now the socialist side of the Basque Government has been scrambling the mantra that the current situation has its origin in the war in Ukraine, in the invasion ordered by the guru of the progressive and separatist left, by the tyrant Putin. But it is true that only in part, as we know well all the people we meet in this full room, although some insist on selling the opposite. Many people inside and outside the Basque Country have recently discovered that Ukraine is the granary of Europe, which paralysed the country we run out of sunflower oil, at least at reasonable prices, which is the main supplier of clay to the Spanish ceramic industry, that the impact of the Russian invasion of a country outside the European Union would have such an impact throughout the Union. But the reality is that the energy price crisis is coming from afar, rising steadily since mid 2020. And the same can be said of inflation, of the consumer price index, triggered in recent months, but constantly growing for almost 24 months. And this is due to the influence that energy prices have on our inflation. That is why it is growing in our country above most European Union countries. Consequently, it is true that the invasion of Ukraine has amplified the profound crisis that has caused the pandemic, but we cannot and must not forget the role that the managers, who are that communist social government of Spain, have played all this time. It is understandable that one and the other should strive to shake responsibilities, that they should use all the means at their disposal to blame their misery and their inability to defend themselves. Right here we have seen, zero self-criticism for the poor management of the pandemic, finger accuser directed at everything that moves, and to what it does not move because it can no longer do so. The fact is that the main party of this government, the PNV, has not hesitated to negotiate every support for Mr Sánchez in order to take advantage of almost any area. And as a button proves: when the party of the lehendakari and Mr.Ortuzar exchanged a vote in favour of an illegal state of alarm for the call for elections in the Basque Country. In other words, they could have forced the Spanish Government to move almost in any direction, because Pedro Sánchez lacks the scruples necessary to maintain a firm position and everyone is aware of his willingness to change principles if required by the contracting party. Without a doubt they could have demanded from their partner in Madrid concrete plans to advance towards the energy autonomy of Spain, being evident that the energy autonomy of the Basque Country is a chimera, it is food... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... required of its partner in Madrid concrete plans to advance towards the energy autonomy of Spain, being evident that the energy autonomy of the Basque Country is a chimera, it is food for enthusiasts of independence and of the Basque nation, but it is nothing more than a chimera. And in what has all this occurred: Spain, looking from afar at countries in its environment with a prospect of economic growth, many older; Spain taking decisions to curb the rise in energy prices, when much of the European Union has been doing so for months. In this context, Mr Azpiazu enters the scene, and discovers that the Basque Government was hiding an ace under its wide sleeve, a very juicy ace. And now, as it was before also, very necessary. It revealed to us that after a very long and hard 24 months of pandemic, of almost all kinds of companies condemned to bankruptcy, unemployment, poverty, widespread hardship, the Urkullu Government has a remnant of more than 1.8 billion euros. To be exact, 1.867 million euros, that the peak is greater than the aid that all the aid that this Executive has allocated in pandemic to get out of the hole to the Basque hospitality, 1.867 million euros. There is no doubt that here is the crux of the issue we are discussing today in this Plenary Session. That is where the oxygen needed by so many economic sectors in this region, supported by the sustained increase in energy, raw materials, transport and also services, should come from. It is true that before, and to the surprise of its own and strangers, it will be necessary to clarify whether it is an extraordinary situation a global pandemic that in Spain has claimed the lives of more than 100,000 people, that has kept us locked up at home for months, that has paralysed all the non-essential activity in towns and cities on the half planet. But I fear not, because over the past two years, the Basque Government has opted for savings, while thousands of Basques could not reach half a month. And it will have to be clarified whether for this executive it is an extraordinary situation the invasion of Ukraine. Yes, it is the consequences it is having on the rise in prices and on the risk of energy shortages. That the same thing on the Governing Council is faced with this moment as something normal, something that happens every Tuesday. By the way, can we consider extraordinary fuel prices that have never been seen, or electric rates that almost triple last summer? I don't know, we're afraid not, because as the spokesman for the Basque Government explained to us, it's okay to spend something on the hut, but with prudence. And in the pandemic, that word has meant paralysis, violation of fundamental rights, unjustified restrictions. On the basis of what we have heard these days from the Basque Economic Adviser, the willingness of the Basque Government to open this (?It's empty. Three hundred million are already destined: the Interinstitutional Plan of the Executive and the Deputies. But the rest, Mr. Azpiazu tells us, seems to be still in the hut. They say that the remnants are totally necessary to have a capacity to act on any issue that may arise, and that the responsibility is to have this balance for unforeseen circumstances. It remains in the air whether or not the Basque Government considers the impact of the invasion of Ukraine on prices, on the supply of raw materials and processed products, even in the day-to-day lives of so many people who have opened their homes for Ukrainian refugees. Finally, concrete proposals for a resolution will be put forward throughout the day, although most of this Government announces the imposition of a way of dealing with the reality that is based on already known declarations, negative to a tax reduction, that Vox does not want it to be temporary like the PP, but sustained in time to encourage consumption, which Socialism regards as populist measures, which are all those that the PSOE is struggling to adopt. I'm sure they'll come to us today with their mantra, no one will be left behind. It offends so many entrepreneurs, self-employed, workers and citizens on foot, who have long since been left behind, helpless and hopeless. And be careful, because the groups that support the Government, before we have made our proposals, those of the entire opposition, have already alerted the population to the presentation of populist and demagogic proposals. And they say so who distributes cultural bonds to young people in the run-up to electoral processes. They accuse us of demagogues, while they cry out for the defense of the most vulnerable. I suppose you have already realized that thanks to the Socialist Government, to the waste of ETT officials for the occupation of friends, of globalist policies and for inequality, today there are so many more vulnerable people, much more than before the outbreak of this pandemic that you have always taken with your feet changed, much more than every day that passes from paralysis and empty speeches. What do you intend to spend that EUR 1,867 million that you were going to invest in and that you did not invest in? Because I'm afraid there's only a few excuses they have to keep cashing, while around them they close business and suffer thousands of families to get to the end of the month. The time has come to spend that money, at least a good part of it, which we have already had two years of unforeseen events, and surprisingly also savings on the part of the Government. I trust that all those people who with their management of these and other funds have left behind will take good note of this. I am looking forward to hearing your motions for resolutions, although I am afraid they will insist on their course of action over the past 20 months: to continue doing what is being done to achieve exactly the same. That and recourse to Next Generation funds to tackle the energy and price crisis, also from raw materials supplies, without repairing that they are funds with which Europe intends to facilitate the exit of the economic, labour and social crisis generated by the pandemic. But taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, for that, we endorsed it right here. Our group rejected participating in that round of contacts with the Lehendakari Urkullu in order to assess possible measures to deal with the current crisis, because we believe that everything that must be dealt with in order to deal with the crisis that is shaking the Basques today must be done with light and stenographers, in the appropriate scenario, which is this House. Nothing that has emerged from these meetings has surprised anyone, let alone their participants. It has been like a precedent of this Plenary Session, an unnecessary expenditure of time and paper. We would have been surprised if someone had put on the table the huge expenditure on agencies of very different types to occupy grateful and movement-like stomachs, if the million-dollar budget of the Basque institutions had been denounced in trusted wage earners, in dispensable advisors and in life pensions. Today, more than ever, the huge spending on unnecessary policies, on euskaldunization... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... in severable advisors and life pensions. Today, more than ever, the enormous expenditure on unnecessary policies, on the euskaldunization of the media of the entire administration, on the development of policies of inequality, on public entities that are of the ruling party, under national construction. They could have talked about the unbearable tax burden on the Basques, far above that of any other citizen of Spain, which, for example, makes the Mileurist Basques the poorest in the whole country. And that's right, they're vulnerable people. They could have talked about reviewing their entire fiscal policy, which deducts millions of euros from the families to fatten the coffers of the Chambers, when that money is fundamental to the survival of those same families. The Basque families do not want government alms when they have already subjected us to poverty, we do not want to be vulnerable and receive economic compensation from the State to have us subjected. We want our money to be our pocket, and not in the well of those who rule us. As I have already told you, we have been proposing actions since Vox to bring about structural changes, for example, in fiscal policy in this region, but also to tackle crisis problems that require immediate action. And that's where the remnant that we're going to talk about today comes into play. Thus, we are going to put forward proposals so that the sectors and people most affected by the worsening energy price crisis, as a result of the invasion of Ukraine, can have almost immediate funds with which to solve the major problems they are facing and which could bring them to ruin. And we're talking about agriculture, fishing, transport... Not to forget those who in solidarity and altruistic way welcome in their homes people who have arrived from Ukraine. We are going to defend and argue the need to freeze direct and indirect taxes that burden the activities of these sectors, as we will defend special attention for self-employed people and workers in ERTE. In addition to the elimination of the excise duty on electricity, we will defend the need to eliminate the excessive expenditure on trust charges, an expensive, very expensive and totally indispensible expenditure; as well as the vital expenditure on the maintenance of those who were high and no longer are. And in this line they may well already appreciate the abolition of subsidies to trade unions, political parties and foundations dependent on them, an expense that citizens do not have to pay for their salary, more does it do to them than to these entities. But we are not going to stay there, because we advocate reducing the tax on hydrocarbons, as we do for the reduction of corporation tax, for deflating both the IRPF's withholding scale and the current year's rates, as well as the tax credit compensation of the excess tax resulting from the differential between inflation expected at the end of last year and the real of the 2021 set. I do not think it is appropriate for me to comment on all these proposals which are subject to another criterion when it comes to assessing it, and I do not intend to exercise victimism, but rather to denounce the way in which those who in this Chamber give us lessons from democracy, from willingness to dialogue and agreement, from respect for ideas and from equal treatment, when every day they do the opposite when it is Vox who proposes and poses. From Vox we trust that this shameful way of exercising politics will be left aside today, we want to think that all political groups will act for the interest of people in a matter as big as the one that has gathered us today in this Hall of Plenary, we want for once to forget their obsession with propaganda and make good decisions for all those people they claim to represent. You, gentlemen of the anti-democratic cordon, all of us are paid to look after the interests of the citizenry, and that is what we must focus on today. We want to trust you, but we have no hope that you will correct your shameful, shameful and irresponsible way of acting in this House. Much is at stake: the survival of thousands of businesses, the wages of hundreds of thousands of workers, the food and well-being of thousands and thousands of people... Like walking around with school playground games. Albert Einstein said: "Without crisis there are no merits. It is in the crisis where the best of each one comes out, because without crisis all wind is caress. To speak of crisis is to promote it, and to silence in crisis is to exalt conformism. Instead, let's work hard. Let's end the threatening crisis, which is the tragedy of not wanting to fight to overcome it." We agree with Einstein and we subscribe to everything he says, it is clear that the best reactant to a crisis is creativity and hard work, but a little collaboration of the economic policy of the Administration would, of course, not be bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government. Today's monograph on the measures that will need to be adapted and adapted as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine must begin, in our view, with a first point of condemnation without palliatives on the cruel, totally illegal, unnecessary and inhumane invasion of Ukraine, which also has a number of derivatives that are important and that will end up affecting us all. The first derivative is, as is known, an international geostrategic derivative, where the European Union, the national governments, are playing an important role here. And here too, I believe, it is appropriate for this Parliament to maintain and support the Government in this case of Spain, in order to defend not only the strategic and other interests of our country, but also in cooperation with the European Union itself to maintain and cooperate in European peace, international peace, which is absolutely necessary for the development of people. Secondly, there is a human, humanitarian derivative, which reminds us all of the barbarity of what is a conflict... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... people. Secondly, there is a human, humanitarian derivative that reminds us all of the barbarity of what is an armed conflict. We haven't had it in Europe for a long time. And that at this point too, out of solidarity, for humanity, for the fraternity that must unite people, we must all make an effort to help and assist as far as possible the entire Ukrainian population, Ukraine. That he's trying to escape, that somehow, he's trying to be safe. And also the one who stays there in his country, defending, defending his country, defending his way of life, and giving us all a real lesson in resistance, that is, resistance. And that's the truth, resilience. The national governments and the Basque Government, we understand that they must be coordinated with the entities of the third sector, and with all the initiatives that in good faith also want to collaborate, help these people, and the people of Ukraine. But we also understand that it is necessary to do so in a context of collaboration, and, above all, to follow a certain order, to follow a certain order. And here the governments have an important role to play, the Basque Government, the Government of Spain. It is an issue that we too will defend and support. There is a third derivative of the war in Ukraine, which is not the cause as such, but what it has done has been to contribute to the worsening already of a situation that we have been suffering. Which is what it is called, the economic variable, the economic situation. That it was not good at all, and that the war in Ukraine has been to increase and aggravate a negative situation that we have been suffering from, and that we have been talking about in this Parliament. The proponent group urged... It has led to the holding of a plenary session in this Parliament. The Basque Government, which was for a Friday, the Basque Government, Mr Lehendakari also took the initiative to contact the various parliamentary groups that make up this Chamber. In order, in principle, to find possible points of agreement, and perhaps some initiatives might result. Apart from this, from who perhaps has the initiative here - if it is Parliament, if it can be the Government itself, etc. - I believe that the important thing is that we take advantage of this forum to carry out a series of reflections that we have been doing for a long time, and which refer to a series of reforms that have also been necessary for a long time. Because, in the area of our competences - which is what the initiative says - we can also do in the area of our competences, because there is much room for improvement. There is a lot of room for improvement, and there are a lot of measures that we have been announcing for a long time from our group. Not only the remnants, Mr. Counsellor, since he's the only one who talks to you about the remnants. But there are many reforms that we still have, and that the Government, in this regard, is also resisting to undertake. I understand that any reform can have a certain resistance of many kinds, but there are reforms and there are measures that we believe are absolutely necessary. We have sent the Government, to be lehendakari, a document, a basic document, a basic document, a document of ideas, of principles, with specific measures, that is. From which to try to reach certain agreements. No, no, no, no, I hope that the government, therefore, man, will also be open to measures that will be favourable to all. Because I understand that ours are absolutely, not only necessary, but already indispensable. What kind of measures do we propose? And I will focus on the aspect of our competence, without prejudice to the fact that, of course, in the motions for resolutions we are going to make motions for resolutions, of course, on the more absolute condemnation of this situation. Proposals for assistance to the population, proposals also of a social nature. But what can we do from within our competence, especially to prepare Basque society, and to prepare our land, and let us say, to vaccinate it in the face of the crisis that is coming upon us? We don't propose patches. We don't propose patches. Here the easy thing is to come up with a package of measures, more or less elaborate, more or less in this case, prepared to communicate it. By saying that today the aid is going to rise, it is going to fall such, it is going to grant such a subsidy. But this isn't arranged by subsidizing, by removing subsidizing. Despite the broad remnant that this Government counts on. But this isn't arranged like this, this isn't arranged by subsidizing, removing subsidizing. For this, what really needs to be done is to undertake certain reforms that have been pending for a long time. What are those reforms? First, taxation. The second is about opening up markets and improving regulatory quality. The third, the return of excesses, of excesses. I don't mean remnants, because every time I say remnants, the counselor moves in his chair. But the orderly, progressive return, little by little, not at once... This is an issue that we too have shown our flexibility. We are a serious group in this regard. To society itself, we must return to society what is not spent. Increased coordination between administrations is absolutely essential. If anyone thinks we can get out of what's coming over us; we're practically inside, but... of the crisis that we are going to enter soon. If anyone thinks that you can leave this situation alone as an autonomous community, it is far from reality. For these, absolutely coordinated measures are needed. In our case, also taking into account the Diputacions Forales, preferably the great Town Halls, and especially the Government of Spain. It is necessary for the administrations to submit proposals and, above all, to carry out structural reforms in which the administrations of our land, including the Central Administration of the State of Spain, have an important role. He's got a lot to say. A meeting between employers and the President of the Community of Madrid is now taking place very close to here. And precisely the initial corridors to the meeting itself, that is the first point that I bring to this Parliament today: the issue of taxation. If there is progress in taxation, both with the Basque Government and with the central Government. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the situation that has already been partly advanced by other groups, in one way or another, I am not going to bore you too much with this, but man. We know, we know, that when there is high inflation, high inflation does not come from the war in Ukraine. Before the invasion of the Ukraine war, inflation was already at 7.6%. The war in Ukraine has been... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... High inflation does not come from the war in Ukraine. Before the invasion of the Ukraine war inflation was already at 7.6%. Ukraine's war has been about two points and a peak, which is also calculated by the European institutions that were going to happen in inflation, but the inflation that Spain is suffering is terrible, it is tremendous. "No, no, this is a European issue." Look, it's just that Portugal has half the inflation, more or less, than us. It's just that Portugal has half the inflation we have, more or less. Let's not blame the neighbor here, General. It is never the fault of the government here that it is at every moment. Good. We have a problem with inflation. Inflation, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is that all prices are rising, and it has an effect. And it is that, in the end, it also increases the collection. Why? The taxes at the end, the indirect ones above all, which are the most unfair taxes, because they affect more middle and low incomes, but also the direct taxes affect them. We here propose to adjust taxes, to adjust them, which is what is technically called a deflation, especially of the IRPF, which is where one can intervene more easily. Because now it is a matter of launching a series of quick measures - then the tax issue is true that it should be reviewed -, intervening on the IRPF and deflating it, updating it to inflation. It's just that it seems to me that that's justice. I hear now that what needs to be done is to raise taxes, is that the rise in taxes is already taking place, what needs to be done precisely is to adjust the rise in taxes to what inflation implies. Of course, before this, what answer is easy for a government? The Basque Government... It's just that we don't have jurisdiction over taxation. Look, you go to the outlaws and you'll propose it, won't you? I mean man, okay, fine. All right, that's right, those who have competence in this are the outlaws. What happens is that then the Basque Government has no problem meeting with the deputies-general and announcing a series of measures on investment coordination. I mean, for that one can coordinate with the outlaws, but then, to reach a pact, an agreement that implies a deflation... We're asking for a deflation, a deflation of the moment. That is, an update of the bases to adjust them to the current inflation, so that people do not lose purchasing power yet. So, of course, what we are told is that: you go to the outside parliaments and to the General Councils, which they decide. Man, let's see, we all know that when an economic agreement is to be reached, there are coordination bodies, and we all know that the necessary measures can be perfectly promoted to achieve this. I think that is why we said - I said it here the other day, perhaps in the run-up to this intervention or today's plenary - that there is a need to seek coordination with governments. Obviously. And if governments don't get wet, if governments don't intervene, then we're certainly not going to get anything. We also called for the Basque Government to push forward. We will do so too; our group, the People's Group, in Congress will do so too. Above all, we also call for a general reduction in indirect taxes, especially those on energy. Because on the subject of energy - which has been talked about a lot in this House - not so much on the part of energy taxes, but, come on, it is that if we began to analyse - I am not going to do it now - but if we started to analyse the subject of energy taxes, not only here those known to everyone that more or less is 50% of what is paid on hydrocarbons are taxed. No, no, energy tax, electricity, for example, is that you pay VAT on taxes. That is, when calculating what is paid, they are taxing and, then, VAT is calculated on the total that already includes taxes that are already being paid on the other hand. That is why we are proposing a rationalization here, especially at this time. I would like to stress once again: temporary, grant aid is going to be a patchwork. This is a thing that comes for long, it comes for long. We have been asking the Councillor for a long time: What will be the impact on the economy of rising energy prices? "Don't worry, Mr. Gordillo, it's all right." Okay. What will be the impact on the Basque economy of the supply crisis, namely semiconductors, microchips? "Don't worry, Mr. Gordillo, everything's going well." Okay. What impact can the supply chain issue have on the Basque economy, lack of other materials...? "Don't worry, everything's gonna be all right and all." The advisor could not predict the war in Ukraine. That's why we can't blame the government, that it's going to predict the war in Ukraine or these... Okay, but I could, what I could have done was take note, because the indicators were there. Because, I insist, the war in Ukraine has been aggravating a situation from which we have already come. Second point: What do we propose? We propose opening up the markets. That is to say, in the face of those who say that in times of crisis what needs to be done is to close the markets, to maintain a protectionist attitude, etc., man, we must protect people, of course, and we will support those measures that are aimed at protecting people, at granting a reasonable amount of aid, subsidies, etc. to the people who are going through the worst with energy, etc. That of course we're going to support him. But that's not going to solve the root problem. He's not gonna fix it. What needs to be done, and what is demonstrated, is that the economies that emerge most quickly from the crisis are those that do precisely what they do is to improve the opening up of their market, to improve the free movement of people, capital, goods, services, etc. Those are the fastest to get out of the crisis. Portugal has shown this, that I believe it has a socialist government, and it seems to me that to a certain extent supported by parties that more or less enter the orbit of what could be in United Left Spain-We can, etc. Portugal has done it. Portugal has done so, which - I repeat - has a few numbers and much better economic indicators than Spain has. A lot better. We are also proposing an improvement in regulation here. We propose that companies should be able to move freely through Spain. It is that today companies cannot move freely through Spain. Really, it's very curious. A company coming from Germany, as a result of the application of European Union law, the State has an obligation - and the autonomous communities too - to ensure perfectly that all the licences, permits, etc. they have acquired abroad are directly recognizable here. Instead, if the company comes from Murcia, comes from Albacete, comes from Burgos, and so on, then no, then we have to go through the whole licensing process, the licensing process, and so on. There are autonomous communities - the Community of Madrid, I don't know if the Community of Andalusia is studying it, etc. - that what they have... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...you have to go back through the whole licensing process, the licensing process, etc. There are autonomous communities, the Community of Madrid, I do not know if the Community of Andalusia is studying it, etc., that what they have proposed is, listen, let us in our community recognize that if a company is already operating with all the permits in Pamplona, in Navarre, and with all the licenses with all the labels that are necessary, etc., requirements, because I know what, economic, administrative health, we automatically recognize it in Euskadi. And with this we guarantee free movement, and that companies will come. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if anyone has noticed, but we have a very serious problem, because companies, we are losing businesses in Euskadi. They've been systematically abandoning us for years. For years. Maybe a little bit of creation goes up some year, it goes down, but the big companies, what are the big companies for years we've been... The other day it was a cover of some pretty well-known newspaper around here. There's a serious problem with that. We have a serious problem with that. We have also proposed, and we propose, administrative simplification measures and improved regulatory quality. There are autonomous communities that have done so by adopting a number of decrees, decrees laws - those autonomous communities that have this figure, others have resorted to laws and others - to simplify, simplify all bureaucratic procedures when opening companies, when carrying out economic activities or declarations, etc. That is something, that is something we have to do, and that is an obligation that we have as public authorities, to urge the Government to present a package of measures that will simplify. It is quite difficult to be an entrepreneur, ladies and gentlemen, rather difficult to invest money, to ask for loans, guarantees, guarantees, etc., a good economic idea so that, above all, you have to fight against the administration as well. And this is the reality of many entrepreneurs on a daily basis. This is a reality. That is why the way to simplify this, the way to simplify it, is precisely to reduce bureaucratic obstacles. And in this there is a great deal of room for manoeuvre, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of room for manoeuvre. Examples: the two recent laws that have been passed in the Community of Madrid, in Andalusia, and not long ago in Castile and León, by the way. Every time we propose, thirdly, a resizing and modernization of the public administration, we find that the answer is if not negative, directly evasive. Look, the Basque administration needs to reform it. And this legislature we have met with a very interesting paradox, and it is that three laws will come and three laws will come to pass in the field of public administration. First the law of bodies and scales, then the law of the public sector, and then, finally, the law of Basque public employment, and they are laws that already enter with a manifest antiquity. These are laws that were drafted a long time ago, that passed the corresponding reports a long time ago, and now we have a series of realities, we have a series of realities that are totally different, totally different. That is why we are actually proposing an agreement to modernise the public administration. Here the only thing that is talked about on the subject of the Administration, now part of the necessary consolidation of work, the only thing that is talked about every time the subject of the Public Administration is of the Basque and of increasing the levels of Basque, I don't know what. We never really talk about modernization measures here. We in the law of the public sector have proposed five modernization measures that we were willing to support the Government if we were accepted by at least one, one of five modernization measures. Boy, at least one. That's not modernization of the administration. Nor is it modernization of the Administration that, listen, the selection processes for staff are going to be three years. Hey, three years to select the staff? Why am I saying this? Because now we are going to have a very serious problem with the issue of the specific management of the European funds themselves. It will be necessary to find highly qualified, versatile staff with a great deal of flexibility to manage certain projects that will have to do with European funds. And what has the Basque Government done here? Well, man, set a patch. That is on the issue of European funds, although the general criteria are these, no, the issue of European funds... of course, criteria more to the European. Criteria as they imply greater flexibility in the subject of public administration, in expenditure control, etc. Every time we talk about the need to resize the Administration itself, we also find the negative. And it is time, it is time for us to really reach an agreement, a pact, or at least for the government to really think about avoiding duplication. Look, Your Honor, just one quick example. It is only in the field of computer science, for example, that we have at least two public undertakings from the Basque Government, one company from each foreign Member, one company from each large municipality, etc., etc. Hey, can't we somehow come up with some synergies between these companies, so we can then cut costs here? Because then, above all, these companies in turn subcontract much of the work. So, don't think about it, listen, this might have to be thought of. This is just an example. There was a study, which was commissioned by the Patxi López government - of which there is very little talk, I think I am the one who speaks the most about that government in this House - which obviously made a study on this subject, and concluded that there were duplicities. Why that spirit is not recovered, that is being updated, and we are actually making significant savings to the public administration and we can use those funds to devote them to other issues that may be more urgent. When people are to be asked to adjust their belts, not because there will be formal reductions in wages, public wages, etc., much less, but because if nothing is done against inflation and a subsidy policy is maintained instead of tackling the root problem, it is not going to cut the rise in inflation, otherwise. Subsidy policy, which is likely to arise today mostly in this House, is a necessary thing for a very short period of time, to help in the short term, but it is not the solution, it is not the solution. Reforms must be carried out on a permanent basis. That's all it's going to do is increase inflation itself even further. We've seen it on the subject of gas prices. All of a sudden, the consumption of gasoline has increased since the approval of the 20's, 30's. Hey, when you approve the help... If it is, dear to the prices of gasoline, diesel, etc., listen, then, look, the effect is that it has risen. Of course, there's been funding, there's been a grant, people are probably taking advantage of it now, but what's important about this? There you can see clearly the effect. The effect is that instead of reducing the tax share... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... perhaps taking advantage now, but the important thing of this is what is – here the effect is clearly seen – the effect is that instead of reducing the share of taxes, which I insist, more than half of taxes, more than half of the price of hydrocarbons, comes precisely (?) of the taxes, why don't we reduce that instead of collecting it from the citizen, then give it again in the form of a subsidy? This is because of a logic, which is a very typical logic of very left-wing countries, very such that it thinks that the state manages its money much better than they do, but it is that at the moment they are being deprived of much of the income money available to the population, and the state or the public authorities are keeping it, some spend it, others spend it more, others prefer to keep it, the amount is growing and such, but well, we prefer to keep it, but in the end absolutely nothing is done, which is what we have to do, I insist, to tackle this root problem. And I'm already entering the final line. I didn't want to talk about the remnants, but man, since they have taken the subject out, man, there is no other remedy. This is a matter for me, because there has already been a lot of talk in this House, especially myself, about this, and what I really care about is a matter, and it is that the government intends to sell us the idea that it is a very positive thing that it has been able to accumulate these remnants. If you accumulate a few remnants for an excess of collection at specific times... (?) says: "no, it is that good behavior of the economy and such". Well, let's not argue. But if you accumulate remnants as a result of not executing an important part of the investment chapter, therefore, you have stopped doing things that you had committed to do, that's how good management is?, how good management is it? The Government's argument is usual: "Mr. Gordillo, we are, we are the best, because in other places we reach the forty and peak and here we reach the 50". Okay, fine. But listen, then, instead of budgeting as you have done 1.6 billion, if you yourself in parliamentary office recognized me that you already signed to execute half, why not budget only half, 800?, why not budget only half? Sure, that's the big question. I mean, the issue of the remnants we can discuss a lot, and so on, but, above all, it's: listen, don't sell this to me as good management, because this is not good management, this is not good management. I think it's great that the government has a fund, I think it's great that we have it, that we have it in our community, in our land, with a fund for emergencies, I think it's great a contingency fund, I think it's great, a fund that's controlled, that's quantified, and so on, that's great. But to accumulate remnants, that of course, here already the quantities dance us, well, say 1,200, another 1,600, another 1,800. If we also begin to add certain amounts that are out there in many public enterprises, which have been able to have certain benefits as a result of certain operations that have to do with energy, for man, perhaps the amount is rising, rising, rising. But, well, let's put 1,500, 1.6 billion out there. Obviously, the Economics Councillor, rather than the Treasury in this case, would say to us: look, of course, we cannot now return 1.6 billion to the real economy at once, because if we do that as a result we will increase the deficit and we have to meet some deficit criteria. It's obvious, it's obvious, if you don't tell him (?) Counselor, I don't know if you'll take the floor today, I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that's obvious. But, therefore, what can be proposed is several things: listen, adjust your budget, which already has experience, to the actual spending capacity it has, so that it collects less and needs to collect less. And on the other hand, I'm slowly returning this money back to society. The Basque Government can tell us: "We have already returned a part, Mr Gordillo, here do not complain, we have put 200, 300 million, 200 and a peak, 300 in the budget of the previous year". (?They put him in to get him back out, didn't they? That is why, with this, really, with the issue of the remnants, we have proposed the creation of an extraordinary fund to help entrepreneurs, and above all, for R & D+i, because in times of crisis it is where it is usually... In the end, when adjustments have to be made, adjustments usually produce on R & D+i, and that is why we propose the opposite: to make a countercyclical policy, where governments usually keep spending, sometimes even reducing, we propose to significantly increase spending on R & D+i, which I certainly insist again, is what is done in other countries, in other economies, which recover much faster from the crisis than we do. But what I would also like to share here is really the need, the spirit of having to keep that, because of course, for a government it is very comfortable to have a bag of money stored there, of course, of course it is very good to have a bag of money stored there, of which the explanations are very limited. "No, no, there's maximum transparency." Man, I'm not saying there's no transparency or information, especially if you ask, because the thing doesn't come from the government, here we have to ask. But what I'm saying is that that money, and a lot of that money, where it's best is in the real economy, because if not in the end what has to be done again is the usual thing, which is again what we have to do is approve subsidies, approve such, that once again what they're going to do is return or increase and heat up inflation itself. Nor do I believe that the government is quite or almost unreceptive. And finally, it is absolutely essential, ladies and gentlemen, that the coordination of public administrations, the control of public expenditure and the control of implementation is absolutely necessary, absolutely necessary. We are perfectly aware that what is coming to us and what we are already beginning to notice, we are only beginning to notice the first collections. Today is Friday, Friday of pains, soon we will all go to enjoy a few days of rest, etc., and then we will come back here two weeks and so, but ladies and gentlemen, this year the January cost will certainly last us, because I do not know if until June or it will last until December. But what is coming to us, especially at the time when the European institutions, as I have already announced, withdraw the incentives, because this is well known to the Councillor, at the time when the tax incentives they have adopted, especially in the area of debt purchase, the European institutions, are going to start to get much more complicated. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we call for an interinstitutional plan to be drawn up. All administrations have to participate. If you don't get all the... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... More complicated. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we call for an interinstitutional plan to be drawn up. All administrations have to participate. If not all administrations are involved, it won't be worth anything. We can adopt the greatest declarations here today, but if we do not go hand in hand with all governments in a coordinated way we will not be able to take the measures that society really needs. We also propose increasing and improving the control of budget implementation, setting up anti-fraud institutions and, above all, increasing parliamentary control of public expenditure. All these measures, ladies and gentlemen, all these measures that we have proposed, are not patchwork, they are structural measures that are necessary not only to get out of the crisis in which we are practically or simply, but will protect us and prepare society for what is coming in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u6	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u7	Thank you, Chief Parliament. Good morning, everyone. Russia invaded Ukraine six weeks ago, and since that time there is a war in Ukraine. And with the war, death, destruction, millions of people escaping from their homes, horror. The arms of war are long, and if they are working on it, here too are the consequences − other ways, here we are paying for the consequences. It is evident that the price of the war in the Ukraine has something to do with the first elements, as the price of the corn, of the nickel, and of other resources. And he's uping the gas costs too, like oil and gas. The purpose of the whole of today's monopographic gathering is to suggest the euskal economy and the villagers to protect themselves from the effects of the Ukranine War. In any case, and this being the case, we believe that it is necessary to explain to the citizen that the war in Ukraine is the last nail in the coffin of a system that was already very tense. The current model is based on an open economy, with global supply chains and an export and import model that devours fossil fuels that has broken down. But it's been breaking for years. By January 2021 oil was at $54; by January 2022, a year later, it was at $85, and the war in Ukraine had not yet begun. Inflation in 2021 was 6.5%, due to the high costs of electricity, and the war in Ukraine had not started at that time either. Before the Russian gas, energy and light were already expensive. The Sidenoor faced the Iberdron on account of the high cost of the intelligent. And the first sector demanded a fair price, and sent tons of milk for the prices they offered in front of the supermarkets because they were unacceptable. That is the crisis before the Ukraine. Stábamos en crisis antes de la guerra de Ucrania. And in Euskadi we know that we have an energy system with an external dependence of 90%. Euskadi has made very little progress in renewable energy in recent years because a clear bet has been made on gas. And just as Euskadi depends on the outside in terms of energy, so do our homes and our industry depend on gas. The Basque Government, recently, far from abandoning this stake in gas, continues to promote it in some way. We see in the new homes are also made dependent, the new homes that are created are made dependent also on a gas boiler. There are also other issues where the Government could have acted more expeditiously, as we discussed in the previous plenary. We are talking about the lack of fair prices for our farmers, for our farmers, for our farms or for our carriers, who do not charge fair prices for their work. In a world whose mode of production, distribution and consumption is moving towards collapse, where raw materials and fossil fuels are scarce, we do not perceive enough audacity on the part of the Government in addressing its own energy policies. It seems, in any case, more than the inertia of the energy and industrial policies that determine certain companies. I am talking about an energy oligopoly, which, by the way, is doing very well. The net benefits of electricity in 2021 are as follows: Iberdrola, 3.9 billion euros; Endesa, 1.9 billion euros; Naturgy, 1.2 billion euros; Repsol, Petronor's matrix, 2.5 billion euros; British Petroleum, working in Bizkaia Electricity Bay with the Basque Government, 6.615 million euros; Cepsa, 670 million euros. And we think that's an important reason for the crisis. The Ukraine war made the situation worse, but let's focus on it for real reason. A problem is that there is a energy company which is the cause of a climate crisis, and which is also the cause of the present economic crisis. The big cost of light and fuel is hurting our economy in industry, first sector and also in our homes. Russia's war is the dot, the dot to an energy model that has not been prepared, is not prepared in the face of the shortage of oil... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ...in our houses. Russia's war is the dot, the dot to an energy model that has not been prepared, it is not prepared in the face of the shortage of oil, gas and raw materials that various scientists and academics have been warning us since the 1960s. Liberal politicians and economists have deafened these warnings that unlimited growth would sooner or later clash with the planet's biophysical limits. It has been preferred to continue stretching the rubber of short-term benefits until the rubber has broken. The planet is plunged into a climate and environmental crisis, and also into a free market economy that is not subject to laws and without democratic control. All this makes the crisis structural. We all know that there are hundreds of paraffin reports that are to be defined a limit to the production of gas, gas, and some primary materials, and that at some point the demand was overdone. Euskadic government started talking about the transition from gas to retals in the '90s, but it must be admitted that it's so little of purpose, so small, that transition, when the crisis has caught us. Now, you know, RedMunch wants to put on a reopening machine, but the oligopoligator is giving you the new hydrogen nits. When the gas and oil business is over. Eta hori da guk ikusten ez duguna. We cannot allow it to be, that the energy conversion from the old oligopoly of gas to the new oligopoly of renewables and hydrogen be made by the hand of the public power, because it changes energy, but it does not change the grabbing of our resources in private hands and the consideration of energy as an object of luxury. The benefits of oligopoly breaking records and our industry and our economy in crisis, a crisis that hides many other crises. Before the war in Ukraine, I said, we were already immersed in Euskadi in several crises. Of course health by the pandemic, but also in an energy crisis, in a climate crisis, in an environmental crisis, in a crisis of supplies and raw materials, in a crisis of the primary sector and food... And all this ends in an economic and social crisis. In the face of this crisis, what can be done? Well, with the excuse of the war in Ukraine, and in application of the doctrine of shock that in times of great crisis society can be manipulated to accept policies that were unacceptable at another time, we are now seeing a crusade of parties, the right, to boost nuclear and gas as transitional energies, to reduce also a crusade, to reduce the environmental demands of the common agricultural policy, and also to accept feed obtained in fields of cultivation that have deforested the Amazon. At present here, in Euskadi, from the Basque Government, from the Deputies, measures are being proposed that all come from the public era, which is necessary, we agree. But we must also demand responsibilities from companies that have become more enriched by the energy crisis. It is that if we concretely know what we are seeing, we see that the Chambers are going to stop winning, through taxation, 165 million euros; that is, the approximately 160 million euros are not direct aid, but payment exemptions, tax deferrals, compensations for energy expenditure... No, it is that citizenship pays, which is not being demanded of multinationals in the energy or food sector. The Basque Government also announced the measures of 530 million to revive the Basque economy and alleviate the effects caused by the war in Ukraine, but in reality these 530 million are not projects to solve the consequences of the war in Ukraine, but basically what they do is to feed millions of projects that were already in the Euskadi Next portfolio of projects before the invasion of Russia took place. From our perspective, instead of demanding those responsible for the energy crisis to pull their shoulders together and help, we agree with these companies on the strategic projects of Euskadi, such as the 35 million euros to the hydrogen corridor in which Iberdrola and Petronor participate. We believe that this proposal is more than a benefit to Basque society, of course it benefits a few. Because just as the 2008 financial crisis was the cause of the tremendous greed of the financial sector with the famous ones suppressed, in the current crisis it is the energy sector and its greed that is also doing what is putting in check our industries and in our societies. And we've given them the ability to buy armchair-based politicians at Repsol, Iberdrola, Endesa... In exchange for favoring a regulation that is totally beneficial and that has created a marginalist system, which we pay them at the price of energy more expensive all the energy produced. They'd like to sell the kilo of chicharro at the price of rape, but no one could think of such nonsense, it's nonsense. For it is precisely this nonsense that has been promoted from the political power, and what has been promoted with the electrics of all Europe and today, therefore, Europe is on the verge of collapse with inflationary tensions around the two digits for this marriage between certain politicians with the energy sector. In this sense, therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we aspire to reach a country agreement that addresses the real causes of the crisis. We need shock measures that must guarantee a social shield so that it is not always those that pay for the crisis generated by large companies, the measures we propose, that complement short-term measures. We want to activate to protect the economy and families, but also measures... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... measures we propose complement short-term measures. We want to act to protect the economy and families, but also long-term and structural measures, which should underpin the transformation of the energy, food and tax model in Euskadi. We can no longer delay the wager for the neurotic sovereignty, the honor of food for the sovereignty, and the state of reform. So that great enterprises and great fortunes may pay for what is proper for them, that they may secure the state of their welfare for all. With regard to short-term measures, what we propose is a recovery pact. This recovery pact would consist of an income pact, a price pact, and a social pact. The income pact is designed to ensure that this crisis, as I said before, does not end up paying the usual ones. That is why, and in this regard, we urge that public and private sector salaries be updated within the Social Dialogue Bureau, also in order to maintain purchasing power. The Bank of Spain, this week, has updated its estimates with an average CPI for 2022 of 7.5%, and an underlying inflation of 2.8%. We believe that wage increases should be located somewhere in the middle of these two dimensions. We also believe that workers should be shielded, that workers should be fought against precarious work, that agreements should be updated, and that consolidation should be speeded up with indefinite contracts in the public and private sectors. Something that has already begun to be done thanks to the labor reform of Minister Yolanda Díaz. The crisis cannot be the excuse for companies that are well capitalized to apply improper redundancies. In this regard, we believe that it is necessary for administrations to work for the maintenance and consolidation of employment. It is also necessary to limit employment regulation files and the acceptance of ERTE only as a last resort. It is necessary to require the return of public aid to those undertakings which have received it, and which have subsequently ended up firing their workers. We think that... We want the Basque Government to change its model of lost in-depth aid to a model of investment and acquisition of shares in companies, so that it can increase its viability and its capacity to take root in Euskadi. We also want to transform the Basque Institute of Finance into a public bank, to develop economic and financing activities into a social key. In the face of the supply crisis, we believe that a sectoral table should be created to look for alternatives to future disruptions, and to look for suppliers closer to the instability of global chains. We also want the Basque Government to establish a price pact with the multinational energy companies. A price pact in which we agree an effort, in which we ask for an effort from the energy companies headquartered in Euskadi, such as: Iberdrola, Petronol, Petronor, Bahia de Bizkaia Gas, Bahia de Bizkaia Electricity, or Nortegas, to limit their electricity, gas and fuel prices. We know that it is difficult to carry out this request, but if these companies really have some roots with our industry and our society, they should take a step forward and hold their shoulders. Currently, it is true, they have opposed with nails and teeth any idea of catching the price of gas, losing their fallen profits from the sky. And they legally fight every action that can reduce their record profits. At what price could these companies sell us energy without suffering losses and being able to reactivate the Basque economy in turn? This is what we would have to explore. The president of Macron, in France, has made the French public company EDF assume the cost of electricity; and consumers are now paying around 50 euros a megawatt hour for electricity. In Japan, inflation is only 2%. But it is that Japanese business culture, prefers to assume a loss in profit margins, and not raise the price and drive away and harm consumers so deeply. We know that in Euskadi, our companies do not have this Japanese mentality. Nor do we have a public energy company to meet the costs of increasing electricity. Here, in what we have are multinationals boasting about international investors; and the stock markets are governed by environmental, social, and good governance principles. If these multinationals really want to remain sustainable, they should accentuate their social side, tie their shoulders, and establish a price pact, so that Euskadi can emerge from this crisis. We therefore urge the Basque Government to negotiate, to try to reach a price pact with the Basque energy multinationals. A light price of 50 euros kilowatt - similar to that of France - a peak around 35. And fuel prices similar to 2020. Finally, it is also necessary to reach a social pact, so as not to leave anyone behind and counter the poverty that is increasing in Euskadi. A social pact that reinforces the energy and electricity bonus. To combat energy poverty; to create a supplement of EUR 250 per month to pensions under EUR 1,000; to increase the public housing and social rental stock to also accommodate refugees and groups at risk of social exclusion; to increase the level of the GIR, and to reduce the minimum age of access from 23 to 18 years; to strengthen the Basque system for the reception of the migrant and transit population in Euskadi; to strengthen the care system, with tax deductions on the IRPF for an amount of EUR 100 per child under 18 years of age; and to strengthen the related services, public services linked to the care economy. A truce for the prices and a social pact. But it's not enough to take a slight amount of shock to give an urgent response to the present crisis. We need also to look at the length of the time and give an answer to the crisis we have in it. And from that line, we can't follow the model of the current government. This is the moment to think of Eucharin for the future and our... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... keep on accepting the pattern. This is the moment to think of Eucharin for the future, and to make the foundations of our most energetic model, nutrient, and the prosecutor. A tax reform that is redistributive, so that those who win the most, more co-opt. We cannot continue to compete with Ayuso's Madrid in fiscal dumping. Reform is needed in order for the large fortunes and companies that have benefited from the crisis to contribute more. That is why we have also proposed to increase taxes on energy companies by 10%, as well as to oblige them to pay the hydroelectric fee, as they currently pay nothing for the water they use to generate that electricity that they then sell us at gas prices. Start setting fair prices for the primary sector, so they don't sell for losses. In addition to paying fair prices, it is also necessary to transform the current agri-food model - based on imported fossil fuels, feed and fertilizers - and to bet on an agro-ecological model that is profitable, healthy and sustainable. And in the face of the emergence of climate change and energy dependence on third countries and oligopoly, there is a need for a transformation of the current energy model, with a clear stake for homes -100 per cent electrified, gas-free - committed to rehabilitation, public mass transport - also electrified - and transport of goods by rail. But above all, it is necessary to set up a public renewable energy company, in order to stop relying on third countries and energy oligopoly. We have urged them to negotiate a price pact with the Basque energy multinationals. We know that this is difficult, and we do not have much faith that it will come to a good place for these companies to accept it, even if we would like to. That is why we can no longer rely on Russian gas or oligopoly. It is necessary to stop giving public funds to these companies so that then, then on top of it, they pass us the bill and do not reduce our energy. That is why we propose to create our own public company, to generate renewable energy and market it at a price slightly higher than the cost price, which could be around 35 euros megawatt hour, more or less as France is doing, with 47.5 euros megawatt hour. It is necessary, therefore, that we do not blame the numerous crisis which we must face to overthrow the war in Ukraine, because they all existed before this war. It is necessary to create a social shield and protect our corporations and citizens from the high prices, considering that we may be able to face this ascent. In the Euskadin, in favor of the treaty, the prices, and the social pact we have just described. And in addition to this, there must also be changes of structure to change the neurogenic model, to change the style of nourishment, and to change the commercial model. Thus we shall face with this, not only the consequences of the crisis from the Ukraine, but that it is possible to face the crisis of structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u9	President, ladies and gentlemen. In the history of peoples there is always a fool who leads his people to disaster. When the Hebrews were delivered from Egypt, Yahweh granted them the land, the promised land, and gave the chance that these lands were occupied by the Philistines, the (Amadechites?), Edomites, Moabites and others, so it was necessary for thousands of men to die for Jacob's descendants to fulfill the word of God. Helena's abduction by a Trojan was the cause of the Trojan war. That city was built and sunk nine times. The Romans passed into blood and fire all over Europe; and when they had no rival, they were set up in civil wars. The Arabs conquered the Mediterranean on the basis of cimitars, and Christians fought for Christianity against the unfaithful. Castile sends more soldiers than friars to the new world to teach Christian doctrine. Europe burned for territorial and religious disputes, for succession to the throne or for personal ambitions. Napoleon considered it attractive to invade all the countries of Europe. The battles and the dead spread in search of the independence of the peoples. The 20th century opened with World War I, followed by the Spanish Civil War, and then World War II. In the Middle Ages there was a religious impulse against Muslims. In the 16th and 17th centuries it was common to hear to mederate the militia to the sea or the Royal House. In the 19th century, the feelings of nationalist exaltation were the driving force behind the war. In the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, the economic interests of nations or the pure without reason supported by the supposed military superiority are, among other causes, the source of slaughter and destruction. Ladies and gentlemen, a full monograph is always of special importance. It has more, because it seeks to be part of the response to the most serious problem facing the human being, to the greatest scourge, to the effects of the use of terror to kill, banish, dispossess human rights, destroy the livelihood of people who six weeks ago lived in peace and freedom. The first obligation of a state is to defend the security of people, life and freedom, and then all the others come. Putin kills, kills his people - the citizens he governs - by sending them to an invasion, to a war in which they do not know what they defend and what they protect themselves from. Putin kills Ukrainians for defending himself, for offering legitimate resistance to the incomprehensible invasion... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... a war in which they don't know what they're defending or what they're protecting themselves from. Putin kills Ukrainians for defending himself, for offering legitimate resistance to the incomprehensible invasion. It kills them with weapons, it kills them with hunger, thirst, preventing humanitarian aid from arriving. He kills them by closing the way with the missiles to whom he tries to flee to save his life, or to whom he captures helpless in their homes or shelters. Putin has taken the step from dictatorship to fascism, from fanaticism to barbarism, and has declared war on all democrats, because his threats and actions affect the values of humanity, who wants to live in peace. They affect global security, affect ways and means of life through the economy, and the ever fragile international balance of coexistence. In addition, it causes the uncertainty of a new world order and feeds the risk of another arms race. Putin's already a loser. Those who follow them are also losers, because their war does not justify it to anyone, because it has a huge international rejection, because in the eyes of the world's democrats, their genocide makes him a creditor of accountability for crimes against humanity. He is a loser who drags the entire Russian citizenship to be a loser with the collapse of the ruble, the flight of many companies, the fall of their commercial relations, the international animosity that is gaining. He is a loser, and perhaps for this reason, more dangerous and eager to use his high destructive capacity with which he sometimes insinuates himself before humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, the world we have been building has become so interdependent, so connected, that almost everything that happens in it with a certain entity or gravity, sooner or later, to a greater or lesser extent, affects us. It has happened with the pandemic, with the price of gas, with the price of energy and fuels, with the flow of assembly components and raw materials, with the impact on inflation. And all this, aggravated for six weeks with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, adding more problems such as those affecting the livestock sector, the industry will conserve, economic growth, employment growth or the just economic recovery that had begun earlier, affecting everyone: the primary sector, industry and services. Ladies and gentlemen, today we want this Parliament to be useful in helping to contribute and help to solve the damage caused by the problems mentioned. Damage which, according to data and forecasts from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the impact of this war will affect the growth of the world's gross domestic product by 1%, an estimate which will reach 1.4% in Europe. And we want to do so knowing that we alone cannot, that we alone cannot, that we all need each other, that we must coordinate and that we must add political wills, wills between institutions, social wills, because the size of the problems breaks borders and competences, and asks us to add here and out of here to be stronger. And we want to do so knowing that the public sector does not have the capacity to replace all the economic and social damage that is taking place. That what is happening happens to us and will pass invoice to all, and that all, the economic sector, social as well, are necessary for their understanding and contribution, and that the protest and claim mode also has limits and must have self-limitation. It's plenary at zero. The Basque Government, the Government of Spain, the European Council have already launched or participated in policies that go in various directions, such as meeting humanitarian aid needs in Ukraine and in the European Union; imposing sanctions on Russia and helping to defend Ukraine; acting in the face of unjustified increases in the rise of energy and fuel in Spain and Europe; acting in the face of economic and productive difficulties of people and companies due to problems of import and export, investment, finance, and liquidity or inflation; promoting and speeding up the management of European funds by all public administrations, so that Spain continues to grow and create jobs. We continue to grow and we continue to create jobs despite the difficulties. The framework within which this plenary is held has the policies of the European Union. Policies that were manifested on the same day of the invasion and that demanded an immediate end to military actions, that would unconditionally withdraw all military forces and equipment from Ukraine, that would respect their territorial integrity and sovereignty, that would respect international law, that would end their campaign of misinformation and cyberattacks. Political measures addressing the security of civilians, the rapid mobilization of funding for refugees and host countries, the implementation of contingency plans, measures to mitigate the impact of high energy prices, the guarantee of energy supply and the security and protection of nuclear facilities, support for the reconstruction of a democratic economy, and support for the decision of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court to open an investigation have also been put in place. Similarly, a powerful package of sanctions covering imports and exports, investments, access to markets and financial services, mobility of investment promoters, transport or individual sanctions has been launched, with the aim of weakening the Kremlin's capacity to finance the war. This plenary also has the measures taken by the Government of Spain, with the joint proposal between Spain and Portugal to raise the price of gas. Proposal that, as you know, is already being sent and pending its evaluation by the European Commission, and has the national plan of responses to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, measures to support the most vulnerable groups, the most affected productive sectors, to guarantee supplies, and to lower fuel and electricity prices. A plan with a planned mobilisation of EUR 16 billion, 6,000 for direct aid and tax reductions, and 10 billion through a new line of guarantees managed through the Official Credit Institute. The plan contains eight specific objectives to try to fairly distribute the effects of the war and to preserve to the maximum the path of growth and job creation begun in 2021, which was working very well. The objectives are to lower the price of gas, electricity and fuels, helping, in particular, the most vulnerable groups; to support the sectors and companies most affected, and particularly SMEs and the most vulnerable groups; to strengthen price stability; to guarantee supplies; to protect financial stability; to accelerate the deployment of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, in particular the Energy Transition Agenda, to achieve energy autonomy as soon as possible, to boost efficiency... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, in particular the Energy Transition Agenda, to achieve energy autonomy as soon as possible, boost energy efficiency and strengthen cybersecurity. These eight objectives are set out in five pillars. The first is aimed at helping working families, displaced persons and humanitarian aid. A humanitarian aid that starts with the European Union's Reception Plan, implementing the Temporary Protection Directive, which establishes a new legal framework that allows refugees temporarily to reside, work and access social benefits with simplified administrative processes, with centres distributed by Spain for the reception, care and diversion of displaced persons and with resolution in 24 hours and the increase of some rights such as accommodation, maintenance, economic aid, schooling, psychosocial care, work care, training and certification of qualifications, health care, validation of driving licences, legal aid or free telephone roaming. Humanitarian aid that is having an extraordinary collaboration of autonomous communities, municipalities and private entities. Following on from financial aid to people, the minimum subsidy of 20 cents per litre of fuel has been established, the ban on redundancies to companies receiving direct aid or ERTE with public support, the maximum rent revision of 2 %, the 15 % increase in minimum income, the extension of the electric social bond to 600,000 families, the extension of tax reductions in the price of light, the contribution of an additional 75 million for the thermal social bond. The second pillar consists of measures to support the business and economic fabric, with new credit lines for EUR 10 billion with guarantees through the Official Credit Institute, the extension of deadlines and gaps for credit, direct aid to the sectors of agriculture, livestock, fishing and the electrointensive industry, the intensive gas industry and transport, the acceleration of the Investment Plan for Fair Recovery, measures to review public procurement prices. The third pillar has measures for the transport sector, with 450 million euros in direct aid, the monthly refund of the tax on hydrocarbons, the Law on Labour for Transporters at Fair Price, of characteristics similar to the Law on Food Chain; the additional bonus of 80% of the rate of the ship and the rate of the goods in the sea lines in the connection of the peninsula with the islands, the postponement of quotas with the Social Security. The cybersecurity pillar provides the National Cybersecurity Plan with more than €1.2 billion to increase surveillance capacity and the detection of threats to information and communication systems. The energy pillar establishes the gas benchmark pricing mechanism for electricity production, updates the retributive regime for renewable energy production, extends the mechanism to 30 June to reduce excess profits in the electricity market, as well as other measures to encourage and accelerate the deployment of renewables. The reduction of charges of the electrical system by 1,900 million euros, also applies the extension of the mechanism in reduction of extraordinary profits. And the deployment of renewables and energy efficiency is accelerated. From this set of measures taken at the Council of Ministers on 29 March, the Basque Country, its citizenship will have aid that in a first assessment reaches 133 million euros to drivers for fuel consumption for the next three months. As well, 8,094 companies and self-employed can benefit from direct aid of €1,250 per truck, 900 per bus, 500 per van, 300 per taxi and per driver's vehicle or ambulance. In addition to reducing fuel prices, with the electric social bonus also 50,431 Basques who had already been using it will continue to do so. The newly transferred Basque minimum income earners will increase this social benefit by 15% over the next three months. With 36,714 beneficiaries. The review of rental prices shall have a ceiling of 2 %. And in Euskadi the rented houses at this date reach 110,500. In the ERTE in February there were 5,100 workers affected by this measure, which reached up to 208,730 workers in the hardest part of the pandemic. A measure which is still active thanks to the approval of the Labour Reform, rejected by the majority of this House, but which certainly did not hesitate to benefit from it and to encourage its use. And that from April 2020 until February of this year the Public Service of State Employment had incurred a cost of 641 million euros. In the guarantees to cover liquidity needs, the data updated to 28 February say that the ICO carried out in 37,240 operations of 20,645 companies, with an amount of 5,641 million euros. This means that the new 10 billion line of guarantees can also continue to do a good service to the Basque company. Of the 500 million earmarked for the electro-intensive industry. Euskadi has a very important presence in this sector, which will be able to access the aid to compensate for costs. Measures for the primary sector include EUR 193 million for agriculture and livestock, 169 for the milk sector, 68 for extractive and aquaculture fisheries. The regulatory change to grow on land of ecological interest in beards and the diversification of production to ensure the needs of livestock and the canning industry, as well as to make temporary access to markets in other countries. In addition to reducing fuel prices, I also consider it of interest to reflect in this debate the new strategic project announced on Monday of EUR 11 billion for the manufacture of microchips and semiconductors. And the review that Spain, together with the Netherlands, has requested of the Eurogroup of tax rules for 2023 regarding debt reduction, to help maintain growth, continue to grow in social security contributors and keep employment figures high. Ladies and gentlemen, this plenary debate also has initiatives and policies deployed in the Basque Country by the Basque Government, the outlaws and the municipalities. Collaborative measures with the Government of Spain set out in the Euskadi Contingency Plan for the Reception of Displaced Persons with Supplementary Resources. Measures with which the Basque Government has been working, through the Internationalization Agency, with companies located in Russia and Ukraine to address the effects of the invasion and help mitigate them. From the Basque Country we work with the sectors for the problems of depletion, the cost of raw materials, the impact of energy prices, the defaults, the execution of guarantees, the state of the... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... for problems of depletion, heating of pyme materials, the impact of energy prices, defaults, implementation of guarantees, the status of contracts put in place, the tension of cash flows. It has also been done with companies that were exporting from the Basque Country, attending to different areas of work such as in the operational and business area concerning closures, production stops, decrease of demand, loss or blocking of customers or cancellation of orders, the financial area on risk of execution of guarantees, capital movements, banking operations, production costs or currency evaluation. Logistical or export licensing problems have been addressed since Euskadi. Specialized advice on sanctions has been offered to Russia. An information and support portal for companies has been launched for their actions. Credit lines have been launched through Elkargi and the Basque Institute of Finance. There is aid for company liquidity. Aid from the Basque Energy Authority for energy efficiency, self-consumption and storage. Aid to make advances more flexible and to establish moratoriums, rent deferrals for companies established in technology parks and industrial estates owned by Sprilur. There is collaboration with the private sector for a raw materials and energy purchasing centre. Access to ERTE is facilitated. Research and development is being done to obtain new products, to hire women researchers and technologists from Ukraine. It works at the Price Observatory for the first sector in compliance with the law of the food chain and its follow-up with the Basque Competition Authority or with the search for alternative suppliers of sunflower oil for the canning industry and feed for Basque farms. The Basque Government has a willingness and means to deal with the problems, because it has expansive budgets that include economic incorporations from European funding, because it has flexibility in spending rules and because there are remnants that can act as a mattress of this situation. It is also committed to strengthening planned investments, accelerating them and ensuring that they act as a shock plan. Similarly, tax measures that have been prepared can help sustain the economy through outlaws. Measures related to the speeding up of VAT tax returns, the IRPF, on tax debt fractionation or deduction of expenditure on corporate tax and activities related to agriculture, livestock, fisheries and transport. Measures to be implemented with the outcome of this plenary session, with the conclusions of the Lehendakari round of talks with the political formations of this Parliament - of which we will probably have something today - and with the initiatives in which the Basque Government is working. Measures to be taken within the framework of the social dialogue. This dialogue, which, in order to be useful, must be able to respect and protect when it occurs, not only when it is appropriate, and which, among other things, must address an income, wages, prices, trade margins, dividend distribution and (...) wages that can help curb inflationary escalation. Ladies and gentlemen, several studies carried out these days by various organisations which bring together companies of different nature and all sectors demand financial policies in order to have liquidity to help with fiscal measures at the cost of energy and fuels, to encourage consumption, to help temporarily companies with public policies for the maintenance of employment, measures for price control, that transport also works, and that supplies of raw materials and products for animal feed or the activity of the canning industry are resumed. This is a reflection of the fact that there is agreement between the demands of the companies that reflect these studies and the policies deployed, even if there can be divergences between us, between the quantities or the reasonable proportions to meet all this. It is reasonable that this should be the case, because the needs for a time are going to be greater than the possibilities. We have come from two years of economic difficulties and adjustments and extraordinary contributions from public resources for purposes that did not fit into reasonable calculations and forecasts of the progress of life. The pandemic and the war have upset everything, altered everything and, in addition, over time have come together to make the answers and solutions more difficult. It is clear that economic growth for the current year has changed. In Euskadi and economic growth has been lowered in its forecasts from 6.7 to 4.5; and the collection can be altered in a few tenths. We're still growing. I should like to warn you that we are in a serious crisis, although we are in a serious situation of difficulties. In these circumstances there is a need for some political moderation, to accompany ideas and proposals to the real possibilities, to quantify measures and to see if they can materialize. Politics not only has concepts and purposes, it also has dimensions. A summary of proposals to show a fictitious unity is not possible. Unity is necessary, but not less than responsibility. It is possible to increase public spending to a certain level provided that reasonable revenue flows are maintained. It is incompatible to significantly reduce taxes and increase spending. Yes, it is possible to temporarily tax so that they have a collective social and business profitability, and so it is being done. Those entrepreneurs who were running around Mrs Ayuso this morning will probably go out and ask for more action from the public and, therefore, taxes, public revenues will continue to be necessary. Socialists are in governance and solutions, in unity of political and institutional action and in the same unity of responsibility. This implies, among other things, that citizens must be told the truth. It must be said that this economic and social situation has the main uncertainty that we do not know how long it will last, nor do we know its costs. That requires a good measurement of what we do so as not to exhaust the margins of action at this stage of these weeks or months. And that requires counting that this situation - which is already costing us economically and socially - will continue to cost us both individually and collectively. We have more fortune than unfortunately not all people in the world have, that of belonging to a European Union that is sensitized and united in the values of peace, in democratic values, in the sensitivity of economic and social protection of its citizens and in internal and external solidarity. Values that extend in Spain with their own instruments, and also in the Basque Country. Values that have been bombed in Ukraine and that have to be recovered... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... which extend in Spain with their own instruments, and also in the Basque Country. Values that have been bombed in Ukraine and that must be recovered. The best measure to get out of this situation is the end of the war, which I would like once again to demand, because this is also the main objective of this debate and the best humanitarian, economic and social measure that we could announce. In the meantime, solidarity with Ukraine's citizens, humanitarian aid and support for resistance. It was the Russian writer (Cropoting?) which left written that war is the usual state of Europe, there is always a plentiful forecast of causes of war. For the Putin business war does not require a certain reason, it is enough to have it rooted in its nature, as it has shown, and to have the ability to initiate it. In this war on the side of democracy and freedom there is no other position than to denounce Russia for the violation of international law, the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, world security and stability, and to take advantage of those affected and attacked. Machiavelli said that all the armed prophets have triumphed and all the unarmed have perished. We want Zeleski to make good his prophecy and overcome this invasion, we want Ukraine to be a free country again, it is soon, and we also want Russia to get it sometime. One last reflection: we live in a world that can go from being interesting, exciting and uplifting when it defends and practices peace and freedom to being contradictory, desperate and aberrant, as when knowledge, research and enormous amounts of resources are used to build powerful weapons, nuclear weapons and also very dangerous. Thanks to the proliferation of these weapons and the characteristics of their custodians, we cannot in this case protect the aggressor for fear that such defence will multiply the effects of aggression on more countries and more people. In fact, we are hostages to defence systems that serve to destroy and destruction systems that do not serve to defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u10	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. A little more than a week ago when we were discussing the consequences of the war in this Parliament for a brief moment, which was somewhat illusory, we had the feeling that the negotiations in Istanbul were going on, that Putin could reduce the brutality of his outbursts in Ukraine. Many have already warned that Putin could not be believed, that he was a good strategist and that he was able to read the opportunities well, and that is what we have been able to see from an unscrupulous man in whose hands is stopping this war. The massacre that weekend in Bucha has shown us one of the greatest massacres that have been remembered in Europe since World War II: corpses piled up in the streets, mass graves improvised, defenceless, unarmed, manicated people who could not defend themselves. They have been terrifying images that evoke, as President Zeleski himself said in Congress, what happened in Gernika. Images that shake us and deserve, in addition to all our solidarity and compassion, the most absolute of condemnations. I said it last Thursday, I will repeat it as many times as necessary: a condemnation without palliatives and from unity. Putin will have to answer for that. Those responsible for these horrific massacres must be tried and condemned, and international agencies must ensure that a clear investigation is carried out into these war crimes. A little over a week ago, too, in this Parliament, we fully supported a proposal which, however, did not involve the support of any opposition group; yes, abstention, but not support, was bad news. It was a sign that we were not able to put aside our differences and unite in how important it is to support the people who are suffering the most from the consequences of the investment. However, on the same day, at a second point in the agreement it was possible, agreement to support the primary sector. It's another sign. If there is will, if there is sincerity, if we leave aside our differences, we can work together. I sincerely believe that this is the message that this institution has to convey to citizens, that we are together and together on the side of Ukraine, that we are striving to give the best response, especially to the people and sectors that are being punished most. We are aware of the many uncertainties that surround us and of the complicated weeks and months that await us. If we all understand it equally, and I do not doubt it, it should be easy for us to conclude this day with a high level of agreement. That is our wish, and I believe that there are possibilities from this Parliament to accompany the Basque institutions, the Lehendakari, all the people and associations that are working, to accompany them with proposals and measures that will help us to overcome the current situation and prepare us for the future. We have shown that we have the capacity to agree, we have achieved this throughout this legislature with many laws and proposals. Now we are going through a complicated moment that demands our utmost responsibility, requires a lot of dialogue, we have challenges to face in the medium and long term, and we have pressing needs that force us to search for quick and contrasting solutions. Let us make this day fruitful, because if we do so we will have achieved the most important thing: to row in the same direction with constructive initiatives and supporting the Government in decision-making. If Ukraine resists, among many other things, it is for the unity that it has demonstrated as a nation. Putin also tried to divide Europe, and he failed. Its institutions have worked since collaboration and collective work in both condemnation, sanctions, arms delivery, diplomacy and humanitarian aid. Europe has worked together, with some exception in some parliamentary group that we have represented here today, but united. That's Europe, union. Union and cohesion. The majority of the groups in Congress have endorsed the measures taken by the Government of Sánchez, although the delay or lack of ambition or prior communication has been questioned, but this decree will be adopted because all formations share the need for urgent decisions. That is why we ask you today to work here, as you do in Madrid, with realistic proposals that will enable us to get closer and not distaste us... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... That is why we ask you today to work here, as you do in Madrid, with realistic proposals that will enable us to get closer and not distaste us. We asked all groups, and I stress everyone, as I did last Thursday, even though Mrs Iriarte indicated that we had left them out of that appeal. We don't exclude anyone, we've never done it, and we won't do it now either. We have been ruling in the institutions of Euskadi for many years. We have been working for many years in Madrid and Europe, helping in complicated times, building bridges, dialogue and understanding. This government is neither sectarian nor authoritarian, which were the ratings we heard last week. This Government and the party I represent have engaged in dialogue and agreement with all groups. We govern and have ruled in coalition with different acronyms. Our speech and our action are aligned, so hand extended to all. There are many open fronts. The situation is not easy, neither are the answers, but we must act on the immediate issue, and we must also bear in mind or take into account a medium-term, long-term vision, so that this country is prepared for the threats that might be posed in the future. Some of them are already on our agenda. We are talking about the three global transitions: social demographics, environmental energy and digital technology. We want to lead the three of us, and if we do it in company, it'll be much better. We need political action and that is what this Government has been doing since the invasion began. A rapid response, as required by the moment, and which comes thanks to the rigorous and serious action and management of public resources. Euskadi has deployed its entire network of solidarity, and in a concerted action with all institutional levels, the third sector, Sareen Sarea, and the volunteers, has given a response to the challenge. The resources to care for those fleeing the war were available from the very beginning, and that is not possible if there is no prior years' work, foresight work, and public policies at the service of people's well-being. Social cohesion is one of our signs of identity. Our indicators of progress are at the forefront in the European Union: wage gap; school drop-out in exclusion and at risk of poverty; the social services of Euskadi, the best valued of the state; the strengths of our model have enabled us to respond to all the challenges and difficulties that have been presented to us. A model that has been built over these 40 years and has its essence in solidarity, well-being, inclusion, equality, sustainable human development, embracing modernity and progress, and leaving no one behind. Or at a time when the neoliberal model looks at the United States and an authoritarian Russian oligarch model, Euskadi has the model of the eyes and faces, the people, of sustainable human development. A model unique to the service of people always and which has proved effective in the face of adversities, because we have always been to respond to the needs of people and the Basque productive fabric. Robust model, with solid foundations built for decades. And this protection of the economy is not therefore established by decree, but is made with effective planning. The subjective rights are not only sanctioned by the law, but they are also granted by the public. And the agreement of nations is not possible if each party does not release the knots of its contradictions in the case of energy, which is acquired in education, and frees those knots. We know that political weaknesses are one of our difficulties in our country today. So let's make the way and continue the discussion. We've been having a sanitary, social and economic crisis caused by a virus, and we're still getting better. And when things were getting better, war comes to us and all its consequences. But I think, if we have, as I said before, overcome past threats, we shall also overcome them. We'll do better at the company. But still, today we are told that the model has to be transformed. That it has not been able to respond to the emergencies that required, for example, the pandemic. But that model that they so much denoise is a strong, well-established model that has allowed us to grow from solidarity and commitment to people. We have competent collaborating institutions and well-organized, well-funded and well-managed public services. On many occasions, from this very rostrum we have reminded them of the surveys and reports of external bodies that value, for example, our health. I put on the table the last one, that of the University of the Basque Country, which highlighted the great resilience of the health system. That there was no collapse during the pandemic, but you drew chaos for us. Reality goes on one side and its dreams on the other. Don't talk about what you'd like it to be, but what it is. We overcome the pandemic and we will overcome what is to come, because the actions have been quick since the same 25 February, coordinated actions, dialogues with those affected. We have the Interinstitutional Social Bureau, which is not born now; we have community sponsorship programs, Auzolana; pioneering programs, Aita Mari, Zaporeak. And so, in line with what Mrs Iriarte commented, it is shown that this government is concerned and occupied by people, come from wherever they come from, and whatever the reason. We also have the second Contingency Plan under way to provide maximum guarantees to the dignified refugee population, but also to work on issues related to social integration and material and psychosocial support. There has been talk of sectors suffering from the effects of this war: the primary sector, transport, the productive fabric, enterprises, cooperatives, clusters, meetings of the Social Dialogue Bureau. There are multiple meeting forums, forums where the actors involved and the institutions they manage are located. The parties have our own spaces. This Parliament, and for example, recently at the meetings we held with the Lehendakari this week. Determined actions, coordinated actions, concerted actions between the Government and the deputies in the form of investments, financing, saving programmes and energy efficiency. Aid, in any case, which may be extended and made more flexible if this situation continues. Efforts that we will ask in our motions for resolutions to make to the Basque Government, aid that is understood to be temporary and focused on the most vulnerable groups, on those families that have difficulty reaching the end of the month. A range of resources ranging from Social Emergency Aid, EUR 41 and a half million, have already been deployed on them, as I said earlier. Among them are also the Energy Poverty Aid, until the agreement signed with the Red Cross seven years ago, to facilitate the payment of electricity, gas and water bills. And all this, in terms of coordination. Contrast and coordinated aid, such as new sources of funding. The 10 million euros, plus co-financing through... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... in terms of coordination. Contrast and coordinated aid, such as new sources of funding. The 10 million euros, plus co-financing through the Basque Institute of Finance. Taxation, 165 million for concrete measures. (Ekogarapen Etsailetik?) It is 530 million euros due Pyme laguntzetarako; 180 million elkarteei eta horretarako ekimenak aurrera emateko; emergentziazko laguntzak, 41 million; 530 million euros inbertsio estratefikoetarako; edota energiaren euskal erakundetik Bultzatutako programak, 150 million, trantsizio ekologikoari aurre egiteko. And at this point, in that of energy and its prices, for its impact it has... from the derivative of the war in Ukraine, I'd like to, I'd like to stop. Problem that is re-emphasized, he said with the invasion of Ukraine, but that it is not, that it is not new. The dearth of it has been suffering for a long time, but now with the investment has generated a greater uncertainty than not... which does not benefit almost anyone, which harms almost everyone. Euskadi does not have the powers to intervene or to renew the regulatory party, nor does it have the powers to refer to the cost. However, the Basque Government does not stand by and wait for others to solve this problem. He might have opted for a passive, waiting attitude, but he hasn't. Your bet is to propose measures, as our group has done to attack the price, such as decoupling the cost of gas to the electricity price. And the bet is to push forward - and this Government is in it - a medium- and long-term energy strategy, which helps to make an orderly transition, and measures towards green, clean, clean and also cheaper energies. For 40 years, this Government has had the Basque Energy Agency, which has been able to help the Basque system reduce its dependence on oil and coal derivatives. The first wind farms were launched more than 20 years ago with support from the public sector. And that early bet, it was the germ of what today is a powerful industry. But we need to produce more energy. Today we only produce 8.6% of the energy we consume. If we do not act now, the consequences will be borne by future generations. With less industry, less employment and a well-being that will be resented. This same week, the UN called for an immediate reduction in oil, gas and coal in order to curb climate change. These days, on the same line, in Wind Europe. We have a strong, urgent statement. It's a now or never. And that is now the action of this executive. But if you want – as you are doing and some parliamentary group has brought here – we can avoid the model debate, and discuss the excessive pay of electrics. But you know that, as much as the proceeds are diminished, it does not affect the formation of the wholesale market price. The bill would only fall if the amounts collected are to cover the bill charges, but not because it lowers the wholesale market price. (...) that was carried out with Decree 17-21, and now with the Plan of State Shock. But always on the basis of European criteria. We, on the other hand, do not look elsewhere. This Government is not looking anywhere else. Our bet passes, and they have an address. Renewables must be stepped up, of all kinds. Energy savings must be stepped up, because the best energy is that which is not consumed. We have technologies, industrial development, leading companies and capabilities to make a serious, firm and successful bet for renewables. We have a powerful ecosystem in the field of renewables. We have a speech and we have actions. We are consistent, we defend energy sovereignty. But we are aware that we are in light years. But we can go through taking steps and concretely supporting the installation of infrastructures that will produce clean energy. Small, domestic and large facilities. The little one's good. But it is not enough to solve the problem either. We cannot say yes to renewables, and then deny any project. If we are saying that in this transition today we need coal, oil, gain or nuclear energy, if we really want to move forward in that transition and combat the threat posed by climate change, we have to bet on whether or not we are renewables. It is not worth saying yes, after the projects are put in the neighbouring territories. It is not worth placing the challenge, and then, when you have to go into the details of the projects, deny them. It is not fair to say that we do not want gas, and silence when that comes from other countries. They're no more excuses. We must commit ourselves to the facts. Mrs Gorrotxategi said that Euskadi has made an unequivocal bet on gas, that France on nuclear, Germany on coal. I don't think it's such a bad bet, when Europe defines it as transition energy; and transition energy for what? to move on to what? I was saying that to the generation of renewable energies. Tell me what your bet is. Tell me where and when. And we do. For months now, we in this Parliament have had Euskadi's decarbonisation paper set up with a view to moving us away from what it also brings us here today: to agree on a basis for handing over to the group of experts to advise the Government on the drafting of the future Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. If we all believe that the time has come to be less dependent, and produce more here, we have to agree and make a serious and firm bet. Let us seize this opportunity and work to achieve our own green pact as well. Let's go together towards that transition, and then we'll get a carbon neutral Euskadi in 2050. But it has to be defined now. We have to position ourselves now. You know this agreement is a good culture for Basques. The stability, it will increase, we shall have a greater comfort. And he guarantees time. A people's covenants are necessary, but let us not value them. You're also asking for a reform prosecutor. Some require a general distribution of taxes, while others demand promotion. You know that the Reformations can't be carried away at such a moment as we live in, there's nothing to do with reflection from the previous agreement in the tax-house, and we don't have to say that we shouldn't. In fact, we have here the agreement we have signed in this legislation... well, what has been approved of a correction, by proposing that this consideration should be made. But even when we said that we ought to do in a state which is far from normal. And when it adapts, and with the corresponding changes. But with a goal we always wanted. To improve the quality of public essential services, to improve social policies, and to continue to be a attractive country of companies, to create an attractive business system. Mr Gordillo, you did not want to quote the remnants, nor do I want to mention tax reform. But you pose us to complex problems can't be solved especially with... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... quote the remnants, I don't either the tax reform. But you pose us to complex problems cannot be solved above all with simple solutions, can you not? This proposal for a general reduction in taxes is pure demagogy and populism very much in the style – and since you mentioned it – of your partner, the President of the Community of Madrid, who – as you said – is now on a tour of this city to meet with entrepreneurs, to sell her tax policies that we have already said are not the best way to collaborate between communities and regions, because also from Europe they gave her an earshake. I lived it as a first person at the European Summit of Regions and Cities held in Marseilles. Our group applauds the collaboration, but not the competition. Because let's not forget that taxes go to public services for the most part. In Euskadi, eight out of every ten euros go to social services, to direct public services, and the rest, to a large extent go to investments. Tax collection is the main way to maintain the welfare quotas that we have and reduce inequalities. Nor with the requests for tax increases that we are proposing today, because we believe that, at this moment of boosting and reactivating, we would generate the opposite effect to the one pursued. Nor with requests that are adaptations to what is required in Madrid, because I remind you that what the progressive government has proposed so far, Mrs Gorrotxategi, we already had in Basque. For example, the minimum rate of 15% that Euskadi companies pay, which you ask for here. Or with the request of a surcharge to the electricians, like the one they raised at the state level within a tax reform that was rejected in Madrid, that did not go ahead, and that moreover, by the way, EH Bildu amended, pretending to safeguard our fiscal powers. When, by the way, what they were doing was limiting our powers to the minimums established by the Spanish State. Then, you were the banners of self-government in this respect. While you are proposing these fiscal changes, our bet is to increase investment and public spending, using debt and the remaining ones. And I'll be right back, Mr. Gordillo. Remains that are held for a collection obtained from our Basque tax system that has proved effective -14 per cent more collection in 2021 - and for responsible and predictable action. Remnants are not a consequence of non-performance of expenditure. In 2021, 97.8% of the budget was implemented. Don't confuse intentionally. High execution, 98 %, effective tax system and planned debt action. That's the result of the remnant. When in 2020 Europe removed fiscal restrictions, this government became more indebted than necessary and accumulated remaining. Due with great welcome thanks to Euskadi's solvency and robustness, qualified as outstanding a few days ago by Standard & Poor's. And this remnant planned and thought out, no dogmas, for what? Summary of actions: Covid expenditure, EUR 1.4 billion; investments in priority areas, EUR 180 million; investment plan, EUR 250 million; extraordinary plan between the Government and the deputies, EUR 530 million. They are being used and will continue to be used in all of our emerging needs, and we will therefore urge the Government in our proposals this afternoon. Remaining also to accept specific tax measures, 165 million to defer payment of taxes, exemptions, tax compensation aid, reduction of VAT on the electric bill - a measure that, by the way, the latter, with all Elkarrekin's favourable vote We can in General Councils - fiscal measures that also paved the way for certain issues on strikes in certain sectors. Why? Because our institutions know, they are close, they are on the front line and they know the needs of this country. And in this way, let us address the root problem, propose improvements, but without populist and inconsistent messages, because what can't be asked in Euskadi, Mrs Gorrotxategi, is what you don't ask for in Madrid, let alone when you are in government. They voted against the various requests for revision of the macro table in Madrid, and voted against eliminating superfluous expenditure. Here, on the other hand, it is among your requests. If there is so much concern about the Basque industry, you will explain to me why, in the motion tabled by our group in Madrid, your group, Elkarrekin Podemos, voted against the decoupling of gas when, it seems, they are bringing the same proposal to Europe. Profile Bildu, with abstention. Why did you vote in favour of reaching 25% compensation for indirect CO2 costs to industry, when the shock plan you present does not reach 25%? Why did they vote in favour of amending the Statute for Electro-Intensives and nothing has been foreseen? Why are they asking for measures to promote self-consumption today, but they voted against our measure in Congress? Let us be consistent in our demands, reasonable in the petitions, and do not demand from others what one, knowing that it is their competence and being in the Government, does not carry out. We have a whole set of measures that we must support. Measures to alleviate the effects of rising costs of goods and measures to protect people and businesses from these higher costs. Structural measures with a vision of the future, a vision to transform this country. For that, you have to put the long lights on. It's not a context we'd like. We'll see what measures must be taken at each moment, this government will have to see to get out of here, to protect the citizens from the bad economic consequences of the war. But let's make it responsibilities and sense. There's no magic recipe. There's no easy solution. But if we pull out the initiative that is under the jurisdiction of the Basque Institutions, we make proposals in that direction. In this way we will push our Basque institutions beyond, and, connected with our present case, demand transfer from the migration, with more privileges. Because these governments and our Basque institutions can do it. Basque institutions are thinking about the future model every day. That's our commitment, and that's where we have to contribute. As the President said before uncertainty the initiative, the initiative to create confidence. Today we have a unique opportunity to encourage and strengthen enterprises. Let's do it with realism, courage and courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. After that, in the name of funk, the President has his word. [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...After that, in the name of funk, the President has his word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u13	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. February 24th, Russia invaded the Ukraine. My first words are to share the firmest reproach against this attack of human rights, which violates legality and international justice. The Russian army, without any justification and without any provocation, decided to make a single-handed military invasion in the Ukraine. At the same time, we wish to communicate solidarity with all the persons who are suffering this unjust humanitarian drama. This injustice has caused thousands of lives to be lost, made to change millions of people, and to destroy the goods and estates of the Ukraine. The United Nations and the European Union have requested that this condition should be terminated as soon as possible. She made a joke of it. Considering this international context, today's speech will be structured in four sections. First, I will direct him to the state of invasion. The second section will take the axis from Euskade to answer this crisis. The third section is about the humanitarian response. Finally, the fourth section will be focused on the measures taken and taken, i.e. to take refuge in the refugees, to protect people, and to protect our economic activity and to protect our work. One: The investigation of the situation caused by the invasion of Ukraine. Ten days before Russia invaded Ukraine, on February 14th, the emergency condition of health caused by Eukadin. Inbasium was lit when the second year of the pandemia was to be completed. At the moment when we were living in the hope of leaving behind the worst consequences of this situation. When we're running a global panic that hasn't yet ended, the invasion has caused another global crisis, and we have to face it too. This crisis has duration and consequences which can hardly be foreseen, and it will have them. The invasion of the Ukraine has produced a global threat in two senses: it produces it in all the countries of the world, as well as in all the parts of life. This attack questiones the geolitical balance and the international consensus. Invasions and extraordinary effects, which war has produced throughout Europe, have shown that the challenges and threats before us reach the whole world. The effects of war, and the answers to articulates, exceed the field of resources and jurisdictions of the functions of the Basque institutions. Besides our community, they exceed the powers of the State of Spain, and of the Union of Europe; This reality presupposes a first consequence, namely, that we must give an answer to all. The answer requires as much of the international community as possible. The Union requires both in the answers given to war and in order to find solutions to the attack. Humanitary crisis and economic crisis have come together. The crisis generated by the invasion of Ukraine demands unity and commitment both in the position of firmness and in the willingness to go the way of diplomacy. The role of the United Nations must be reaffirmed. Its first objective is to maintain international peace and security. It's about fostering alliances. This objective lies with the United Nations, also with the European Union, the Ecumenical Alliance and all Governments. Europe's reaction has made it possible to make a cohesive Union visible. The European Union has acted with a joint strategy and cohesion that has reaffirmed the values by which it was formed. The 27 have managed to project a common idea, their aspiration to take their place in the world. They have done so around an objective of enormous complexity and that modifies the geostrategic and economic balances of the last decades, reduce Russia's energy dependence and gain strategic sovereignty over the United States and China. In a global economic scenario, strong interconnections and trade dependencies must be seen as affecting all economic sectors. The immediate trigger has been the increase in the price of energy, a trend that has been under way for years and that raises as a public reflection in August 2021 on the occasion of the Governing Council in Miramar. In any case, the condition of this crisis is global and decisions must be taken taking into account the link to the measures of the European Union and the Spanish Government. In this context I share our diagnosis of the situation. From an internal point of view, we started 2022 with very positive developments and with clear forecasts of economic, industrial and employment recovery and recovery. In 2020 and 2021 we increased budgets in health, education and social policies, with budget execution close to 100%. At the same time, we manage budgets with responsibility and a vision for the future. This prudent management over the last few years, Euskadi's solvency is allowing us to deal with this crisis with the resources necessary to meet the demands that have arisen. In any case, it is necessary to apply a dose of caution... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ...crisis with the necessary resources to deal with the demands that have arisen. In any case, it is necessary to apply a dose of caution. In fact, we have modulated growth expectations for this year and the following year. The forecast is to grow above 4% and reduce unemployment below 10%. More employment and better quality. From the social point of view, this prolonged time of uncertainty that unites pandemic and war generates tiredness, discouragement and discomfort in society. In the face of this social displeasure, we must continue to act with perspective, serenity and confidence in our model. Our shared goal must be to offer certainty and confidence to Basque society. One, then, is an examination of the situation caused by the invasion of the Ukraine. Two: Euskati's example and our strategy in the Basque March. 21st this first part of the century affirms that uncertainty marks the course of the world. The only thing that's safe is change. The management of uncertainty is more and more legislative and political. What's new is not to have a changing reality, but what's new is the high speed of change and transformation. This global dynamicism has no precedent. That's why we consider it necessary to hand over to everybody the strategic perspective we have to use to deal with this Eukadin situation. The progress of life and politics leads to answer known problems and unexpected attacks. The effects produced by the state of the Ukraine, or by the pandemies, are two historical events of this second category. Suddenly we have to face an unknown situation. It's important to be an strategic pattern or not. If this pattern is not, it is dangerous to improvise and give signs of step. In a variation of this improvisation, some political discourses suggest a recipe for immediate radical change. Thus, in the presence of every new difficulty, the whole change of pattern, and the whole whole system of plan, which will change everything from top to bottom. From this point of view, it is suggested that we make a tabula ras at every crossroads, or start from scratch at every turn. This point of view despises the former, and it is equal to the thought that history begins with itself. Ours is a different approach. We're filling up the Basque March program, and during our difficult and doubtful times of life, it's very important to have that solid foundation and to have it developed. We have a Euskadin model: a permanent human development. This example has shown that it is balanced on the side of cohesion of society, and effective in respect to promote economic and quality employment. Pandemia's answer was the model for sharing and managing. It is now established from the 24th of February, that this new crisis of the invasion of the Ukraine is to be given. We have the Basque model of sustainable human development, aligned with the United Nations 2030 Agenda: a model that has proved socially balanced and economically effective; a model that responds to the ongoing Euskadi strategy of our government programme. Our priorities are to reactivate the economy and employment and not leave anyone behind. This model has led us to define an explicit commitment to technological-digital, energy-climate and demographic-social and health transitions. This model is also reflected in the vision of Europe and its future. Our model is based on a social Europe, defined at the Göteborg summit, focused on ensuring the viability of welfare systems and responding to the challenges of equality and social inclusion. Our model supports a competitive Europe, with an industrial policy based on research and innovation that pays particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, the social economy and cooperatives, geared towards sustainable growth and promoting the generation of quality jobs. Our model promotes a sustainable and leading Europe in the fight against climate change. Now, the urgent thing is to protect the economy, employment and our industrial fabric; it is to protect the most vulnerable families, people and sectors. This is the urgent matter. The important thing is to do all this within the framework of our strategic and transformative model. One, investigation of the situation caused by the invasion of Ukraine. Two of them, the Basque Pattern and our Euskadian strategy. Three, answer the humanitarian. Amongst many other conclusions, the invasion of the Ukraine is assuming the offset of millions of people running away. According to the record of the United Nations, more than three million and a half a month has been removed from the Ukraine. On the 3rd of March 2022, the European board gave a green light to apply to an international and immediate policy that allows immediate protection to those who left the Ukraine. From Euskaca he fulfills the commitment to his reception and integration with all the migrators and all the petitioners, even from any original source. This kind of support brings with it a residence and a work permit, an educational right, a proper lodging, a support and health needed in the field of social assistance and nourishment. We've shown the will to help people greet the refugees that come from Ukrainian and eucalyptic institutions. This will rests on ethical principles and principles of solidarity. From the ethical point of view, November 30th, 2019, the Social Estalia of the Amigration... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... It's based on it. From the ethical point of view, November 30th, 2019, we signed the Social Testament for migration. This treaty shows a deep agreement of the society, institutions, and the legislature, and provides a circle of reference to the task. This treaty says: In the case of migration or of an asshole, the principal moral principle is to offer what we ought to receive if we are in a similar situation. Euskadi, the Basque Government, all institutions and society share the will to contribute to the reception of refugees from Ukraine. Euskadi fulfils its commitment to reception and integration with all migrants and with all asylum-seekers. We do so with equal sensitivity from where they come, in accordance with international humanitarian law and responding to the relevant regulatory framework in each case. In the case of people from Ukraine, we have made a commitment to comply with the European Union Directive. On 10 March, we presented the first Contingency Plan for the Reception of Persons Displaced by the Invasion of Ukraine. This contingency plan has been drawn up in coordination with the Foral Deputies, Eudel and the social entities. On 31 March, we approved the second Plan: it provides a first reception in the centres of Irun, Oñati, Toulouse and Berriz; it contemplates the provision of accommodation in hotels and implements a preview work with Alokabide and the municipalities; it establishes that the Foral Deputies will offer the necessary care to minors without family reference and people in vulnerable situations. This plan has the necessary resources to ensure that refugees have full access to the right to education, health and employment services. In the area of housing, there are two types of stable housing solutions: housing offered by institutions or social offers and housing provided by foster families. Other resources are defined such as strengthening the prevention of trafficking in women and minors, and coordination with other institutions or entities with the capacity to assist. With regard to economic support for life support, and as long as the mechanism that the State will use to ensure basic economic support for subsistence is not defined, the Basque Government establishes an agreement with social entities to provide assistance to individuals and families who need it. This aid refers to the Azken Sarea Indartzen programme and collaboration with Caritas during the pandemic. From the very beginning, we, the Basque institutions and the Basque Government, have worked hard to ensure that human dignity and social cohesion are met. Since 24 February, more than 1,200 people have applied for temporary international protection in Euskadi. Of these, 554 are in the first reception in the state system and the hostels of Oñati and Berriz. A total of 1,184 persons have applied for a health card in the Basque health centres, and 386 minors have applied for enrolment in our educational centres. This response is also part of the Basque model of sustainable human development. The investigation of the situation caused by the invasion of Ukraine, the Eukaki strategy, the humanitary response, and the measures taken and taken. Section 4: Measures to protect the economy and people. Since the same day of the invasion, 24 February, the Government has been in direct and permanent contact with all affected sectors. The replies provided have been defined by common accord between the Basque institutions in the context of the decisions adopted by the European Union at its meetings of 24 and 25 March, as well as the decisions adopted by the Spanish Government in the Council of 29 March, taking as reference the Palma Declaration. In this frame of reference of Europe and the State, we present the measures of the Basque Government to deal with the crisis of Ukraine in three sections: immediate measures, complementary measures, transformative measures. Immediate measures launched in March. This is nothing more than investment, and in advance of the decisions of the European Union and the Spanish Government. Follow-up action following analysis of developments, identified needs and proposals received. And transformative measures implemented through the approved strategic investment plans. Immediate action. On 15 March, energy efficiency and cost-saving measures were presented to the Governing Council through the Basque Energy Authority. March 15. These measures have a budget of EUR 150 million in grants and can be expanded with a larger budget. On 22 March, the Governing Council approved the financing measures for the companies most affected by the crisis. March 22nd. These measures are managed through the Basque Institute of Finance and Elkargi. They have a credit line of EUR 10 million for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. They are aid to companies with business activities or business relations in the conflict zone. In addition, liquidity aid has been launched for all companies affected by the crisis. This provides a 50% co-financing modality with financial institutions. On 28 March, the Foreign Ministers presented the fiscal aid measures amounting to EUR 165 million. The Euskadi 2024 Strategic Investment Plan, approved by the Basque Finance Council on 1 April, was presented to the Governing Council on 29 March. 29 March and 1 April. Immediate and complementary measures. The Basque Government has maintained a permanent relationship with the institutions and sectors concerned. We remain committed and will adopt further measures to respond to the crisis in Ukraine. They are complementary to those adopted by the European Union and the Government... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... our commitment and we will adopt new measures to respond to the crisis in Ukraine. They are complementary to those adopted by the European Union and the Spanish Government. These are measures that meet the demands of economic and social actors at the social dialogue table, clusters and sectors directly affected. It also incorporates suggestions from parliamentary groups in the round of talks held this week. These complementary measures are valued at around EUR 200 million, are articulated in a social rescue fund and an economic rescue fund, and will be approved at the Governing Council next Tuesday. The social rescue fund will be endowed with 15 million euros. On the one hand, social aid for vulnerable people: social emergency aid and to alleviate energy poverty; aid for the integration of homeless people; resources for young people without family support; local support networks for vulnerable elderly people; and Red Azken sarea indartzen. On the other hand, social assistance for the reception of Ukrainian refugees: first-aid programme; Azken sarea indartzen Ukraine; Loturak; local reception networks for migrants; psychological support programme for refugees; and Aukerak suspertzen and educational reinforcement of young people in Ukraine. The economic rescue fund will be provided with 143 million euros. We planned to expand aid programmes for businesses and micro-enterprises with EUR 63 million. These aid will be channelled through the following areas of action: extension of the Bilakatu programme for business transformation projects; programme of aid to enterprises, aid to gas-intensive industries; postponement of rents in technology parks and polygons; aid in legal advice; and programmes to support the social economy. We planned to extend the supplementary aid to companies in the first sector by EUR 60 million. They will focus on: the direct aid programme for the agri-farm sector; the direct aid programme for the fisheries sector; and the Handitu programme to boost expansion investments by the companies in the first sector. We also put in place complementary aids to the commercial sector, valued at EUR 20 million through: the consumer incentive programme; and the retail trade support programme. Within this same framework, we will approve additional liquidity measures, which will be added to those that are under way through guarantees and funding lines, with an additional allocation of EUR 40 million. Immediate, complementary and transformative measures. The Euskadi in Marcha strategy to boost socio-economic transformation and the generation of employment opportunities is the axis on which the transformative measures we are implementing are articulated. They are framed in the highest budgets of our history. We have allocated eight out of every ten euros to social policies, with investment growth of 50% and R & D & I stakes of nearly 10%. This March we approved the Berpiztu programme with €3,210 million for this year 2022, its objective is to revive the economy and employment and thus compensate for the negative effects of the war. We will continue with the 180 million Euro Priority Areas Programme, of which 81 will be implemented this year. We have approved the programme of strategic investments with the Diputations Forales with 530 million euros to accelerate the implementation of projects of economic, energy and social transformation. With this initiative we are advancing tractor investments of the Euskadi Next programme that could be accelerated with the European Funds. In addition, we are evaluating a number of specific transformative initiatives in response to the demands of the sectors of activity, clusters, enterprises and social economy. For example: management of purchases of raw materials on the international market; centralized energy purchase programme; promotion of strategic economic transformation projects; food chain price observatory; R & D projects and talent acquisition in technology centres; monitoring of the transport work table; implementation of renewable energy projects initiated before 2024; Supply Chain Resilience platform to strengthen supply chains in the face of the risk of disruption; monitoring of the conditions of companies to benefit from force majeure ERTE; and aid for energy self-consumption. A month and a half ago, Russia invaded the Ukraine. The Red Munch has given the answer in three branches, always along with other organizations and sectors: We've taken the people who have left the Ukraine and we're protecting them. He's protected the most needed people, and we're offering support and protection to the economy and company world. Euskadi is showing support and support in these difficult moments. We'll still offer solidarity and protection. We're taking measures to respond to the situation from the first day. Now, we'll take extra measures. We're going to invest around 200 million euros in total, and they'll be approved next Tuesday's Council. On the one hand, by a fund to aid the most helpless, we will invest 15 million euros; on the other hand, we will invest 143 million dollars in a fund to help the economy, and 40 million to guarantee the settlement of the companies. We took immediate measures, we're proposing additional measures, and we'll continue to take new measures and propose them. At the same time, we'll continue to encourage even lower measurements. We are developing immediate, complementary and transformative measures to address the crisis in Ukraine. These measures cover the possibilities of the European Union's Temporary State Aid Framework, which is envisaged in the framework of the Palma Agreements. They have been launched in collaboration with the institutions and sectors concerned. They respond to the amendment adopted by this Parliament on Thursday 31 March and also to many of the proposals made by the parliamentary groups in the House, to which I am grateful for their contributions. We're going to continue to assess the situation, analyze... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... proposals made by the parliamentary groups of the House, to which I am grateful for their contributions. We will continue to assess the situation, analyse the effectiveness of the measures taken and, if necessary, further expand them. We have resources to do so. In this crisis, the Basque Government has been where it belongs and has responded to its responsibility. To act in a coordinated manner with Europe and with the State, to welcome refugees, to submit proposals for action at European and State level, to support the Versailles Declaration and the European Council agreements of 24 and 25 March, to make ten proposals at the Conference of Presidents and to support the Palma Declaration and to fulfil the commitments of the Euskadi Strategy in March of the government programme. Last Friday I confessed the anguish of the moment and the uncertainty that we are living in during this legislature. I also delivered a message about effort and work. No magic recipes, but I shared a trusted message. These are the last three messages I wish to share today: The anxiety, the effort, the work of the moment we live in, and confidence. We're in a very serious situation. The recipe for confronting it is not dramaism, nor demagogue, nor catastrophism, nor the utopia of new magic patterns. The Ukraine crisis will have negative consequences that will last in time. Let's not get fooled. These consequences will be applicable to the people, to the corporations, to the workmen, and to public affairs. Dugu Bakarra lace: wool eta ahalegina, lankidetza eta auzolana. Work and effort. We have a proper and balanced model that works, Euskadi in Marcha, which we cannot put at risk. If we're talking about a protective economy, we agree. But the best protection is to ensure economic growth and quality employment. If we're talking about lowering the prosecutority, let's be cautious. There are no social balances and no social public services of quality without Dictative prosecutions. If we're talking about raising wages, let's be responsible. the most precious property is employment. Let's not risk employment with one-sided decisions. The compacts of the surrenders must be agreed on by economic and social operators. These deals may help the government, but we can't represent the essential cause of negotiation. We're in an open economy, and let's remember, if there's no company, there's no jobs. If we're talking about the strategic plans, let's be reasonable. On the one hand, because Escal economy remains in a strong growth zone. This week (...) ) There is nothing but to see, or the thermometer announced yesterday. On the other hand, we can't upset the budget over 13,000 million dollars that's been approved for a few months. At this moment we have more to do than new strategic reflections, we must follow the strategic program in the Basque March. It's not wise to spend all the savings. We manage the remnants responsibly. We started this legislature in the middle of the pandemic. We had a balanced budget and decided to get the most out of our capacity by taking advantage of the low interest rates. This decision, together with the savings of previous years and a higher-than-expected collection, has allowed us to dispose of remnants. Thanks to this rigorous management of public resources, Euskadi is a solvent country. We enjoy the best rating of international agencies, two levels above the Spanish State. Our commitment is to continue to manage resources responsibly. The fate of the remnants will enable us to amortize debt, to meet extraordinary needs, to respond to complementary social and economic rescue measures such as those we are proposing today, also, if necessary in the future, in order to expand these measures. We have resources to do so. Our accounts guarantee us a mattress to address unpredictable situations, such as the prolongation of the current economic crisis, the emergence of new variants of coronavirus, possible reductions in collection or stricter financial regulation by the European Union in the coming years. Let's have temperance and trust. We have overcome the previous crises and we are going to overcome this one. Not with magic recipes or utopian paradise models, with consistency and confidence in our own model. Trust us because we have solid foundations. In the face of catastrophes and alarmisms, I share five data. One, wealth. After the pandemic our per capita gross domestic product is above the European average and is 25% above the state average. Two, innovation. We have been rated by the European Union as a centre of excellence in innovation. Three, formation. We lead the European population ranking between 25 and 34 years old who has completed tertiary studies. Four, social balance. Euskadi is among the three European countries with the lowest poverty rates. Five, solvency. We have a public debt of 16.3% of our gross domestic product compared to 120 % of the Spanish state and 90 % on average in Europe. Our challenge as a country remains employment, especially youth employment. We are committed to recovering all lost jobs, improving their quality and placing the unemployment rate below 10%. In March, we reached 988,806 people affiliated with Social Security. We are just 2,129 people outnumbering the historical number of contributors in July 2008. They are given for the hope and confidence in the future of Euskadi. Hope and confidence in our model of sustainable human development. We have a pattern, a model that is effective... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...hope and confidence in our model of sustainable human development. We have a pattern that is effective. We have to maintain the values of action: shared efforts, work, responsibility, and private public cooperation. The same example is the eucalyptic model of the permanent human development which we are building in the past, now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Entering the answers, Mrs. Irrez has the word which is the representative of the EH group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u15	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, it's not easy to give a decent opinion about all the measures you have here enumerated, because I haven't had time and would require a deeper examination to get to know exactly what they are about. We'll study them deeply, but I'll give you one of my first impressions. And I would like to give you a preliminary consideration, because you are a very just and strict man, and such as are the function of the Government, and the function of this legislature, and the part of the legislative groups. And I think here is a methodary problem, and it is partly favourable to form, but it also reflects a more important problem. Because a monographic offer opportunity to interact with each other, each team proposes a few proposals, and makes a shared negotiation exercise. Then it's possible to create larger or smaller agreements. It's possible to arrive. And after this exercise, the government has to decode those agreements in the size they are allowed to be approved. But with this exercise of yours, you make the way to the bargain difficult. You have spoken to us of the measures which your government will accept, before we have registered our proposals, discussed and agreed. And, in that sense, it seems to me that in some measure you have shut it down. What now? What do we do now? Are the measurements which you will announce or which we shall agree this afternoon? I don't know, we're negotiating or we're not doing it. It seems to me, in some measure, that it shrinks from the discussion we were going to give here, and this discussion which we are to give here. I'm surprised that one thing, Mr. Urkullu, is that if you're planning a plan, you said you'd have to make a tabula ras. And I was surprised that in other countries around here they are also planning to face this crisis, and I don't know whether anyone made a tabula or whether I don't know it, but it's all the same. As I have said, as far as the measures which you have predicted, they must be considered in the depths, and the extent of their penetration. But in this way, suddenly, and with a quick reading, I feel that these measures show not appetite. First, in numbers, they call attention to numbers, to predict the measures of 200 million Euro. And that's my question: Is that all you can do? You said it yourself, didn't you? That the superfluous should not be wasted, and that the superfluous should be considered as other things and other predictions. But in the morning I myself have said that at the time of proposing the use of those superfluous ones, we have been wise too. So, 200 million, is everything that I can use? The state has made a plan of 16 billion euros of direct credits and measurements, and are we talking about 200 million euros here? And then there are some figures that call me attention because I really think we have some important natural instruments to treat the situation differently. You said $15 million to the social rescue when we're talking about public protection. And I'm telling you that he calls me an atheist because I think we have our own instruments, those who are speaking about rights, who put us into the line of rights. And besides, at a time like this, the answers are given us a way of urgent and rapid pursuit. I'm talking about rents and so forth to guarantee the income. And it seems to me that the rest may be a parche to answer the moment, but that we are not foreseeing a difficult situation, and that we must give certainties to the public, which we must give them; and that in this sense we have an instrument to make use of. And it's not just the number. Besides the amount, I think there are things missing (...). Considering the general poverty that is happening today, the price of energy, the increase of the KPI (...) seems to me to be the fabulous bono we are proposing, that this fabulous bono, which we have proposed, is not out of place. We didn't make it up, they're doing it in other countries. And then, well, I don't know... Don't you think it's essential to have the most urgent preparations for the day to-day, except for the punctual response to the moment, the soft decision, the spontaneous decision? I think it's important, and this would give us a certain description of a higher extent. But I repeat to you, Mr. Urkullu, that we shall consider all those proposed. And that we're going to have a good look at them, a still deeper opinion... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... That we have all these propositions, and will consider them well, before we give them a more profound opinion. I'd like to tell Mrs. Berjalbuz, as you put out your hand, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, and you'll remember, too, that maybe it was a lapsus. But since you held out your hand, I take my hand, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. But to do things together, I'd prefer we could do it together rather than in the company. It seems to me that we have a pattern which is remarkable for this legislature. Happy birthday to the parliament yesterday (... 'Oh!' he went on, and congratulations were exchanged. And this is what education model brought. And you (did I tell him? As if because I've started with you, I'll tell the President, or I'll tell all the other parts and groups that are in this legislature. I think it was a model. Because we didn't have any relations with each other, which makes it much easier for us to make decisions as important as education, and besides that we've been able to deal with agents and experts. And this is exactly what Mr. Urkullu, when I speak of the forum, and when we see such unstable and unstable situations, is a methodology proposed from the Basque Country in the Union. And what we've been able to accomplish here, little scales, but what I think is possible. In any case, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, only a couple more things. You told us about realism. And when they talk to me about my realism, actually, always... I don't know, I'm a little excited. I said this morning it seemed to me that the measures we've brought were ambitious, yes, but realistic. The inside of this frame that we want to pass, and it could open a few paths. For the decision of the moment, and also for the political agreements we must make in the future. And that is to say, we shall have political decisions in the future and in the future. That's why, when they talk to me about realism, I get that feeling I'm telling you about. It's realism, when we went shopping any of us to buy food for the last 15 days, more than 15 days or months ago, we've paid a lot more. And we, all of us who are here, are privileged, and we ought to admit that we are privileged. But I'd like to repeat the facts I've just mentioned, how many people are in such a position that they can protect their basic expenses. 284 thousand people, Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, 1030,000 people don't interfere with basic expenses, serious problems with 400,000 people, or very serious, nutrients with food, and 1210,000 people without paying so much receipts, 150,000 people spend cold during the winter. This I mean by which I mean that if we have discovered difficulties, if we have guessed how to raise the difference and this basket, we must look into the eyes of these people who are here. And that's realism to me. Or realism is what we've seen when we buy solids, or when we have to pay the electricity bill, we've seen it. And looking out of realism is a situation in response to the crack of salary. And it's from realism to look at, three or four days ago, from the international climate panel. ) Let the measures be fixed. By the way, I'll tell you that I'm grateful for what's been said about the debonization committee and the team of experts because they started the Basque Country. In any case, I told you today, and I told you Mr. Urkullu, it seems to me that we should make some agreements and some important agreements from this legislature. And even if we don't get it today, we have to show the people that we have a line to work together. And the uncertainty of the public at this moment, the fear of many cases, that there are some in this ship of response. We're all citizen delegates to that. And that seems important to me, as I said before, when the cares are shared, when the responsibilities are shared, when the results are shared, I think the message we send to this country is much stronger. And I say that because I believe in it, and I say it again. Good morning, everyone, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. The missile-Vox team shouldn't speak. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. And thanks also to the other speakers, for this interesting debate where I think we are seeing several things. First, the groups that support the Government, the Government itself, have little capacity at best to move in terms of the postulates from which we started. And that the groups, then, differently we are proposing a number of issues... in different fields and, above all, from different points of view and in different models. But in practice, then, basically, what they do is to put forward alternatives that the Government does not seem to be doing very much about. I will make a brief reference to the – and I will start by referring to Mr Lehendakari – issues he has raised. The questions raised by Mr Lehendakari basically divided them into immediate measures, complementary measures and transformative measures. All right, the immediate measures, because there is a series of money: 150 million euros for grants, for the companies most affected by the crisis, some (...) 10 million. What happens is that this is the regular budget from which we now start, that we just repeat, listen, because we have this budget and we are... Let's see if we can execute it this far. Then it caught my attention that I did mention that on March 28th... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ...we have this budget and we are... Let's see if we can execute it this far. It has then drawn my attention to the fact that it mentioned that on 28 March, together with the outside parliaments, they have proposed a number of fiscal aid measures amounting to EUR 165 million. And later he repeated again as he did have some... that has approved a strategic investment programme with outlaws of 530 million euros. That being the case, I am very surprised and I do not understand that, given the coordination capacity that exists with the outside parliaments, there is no serious attempt to deflate the IRPF. The deflating of the IRPF, that is, adjusting what is charged by the IRPF, implies an automatic, immediate and fair measure, benefits those who have less, benefits low and middle incomes, and adjusts, adjusts the real rates to what is inflation. That is what I do not understand, not wanting to go in and discuss why we are not going to coordinate, in this case, with the outlying parliaments to deflate the IRPF tariff, which, in my opinion, would be the most important measure. Of the other measures that Mr Lehendakari has proposed, which we will be happy to discuss, it is even possible that in the proposals we will do some and even support some on the part of the groups of the Government in this respect, because some of them are fine. And indeed, all those who are to give back to entrepreneurs and families what has already been collected from them, for, of course, this is something that we will support at first. But, of course, we understand how this is working. We are over-receiving citizens to whom we are then returning part of that collection, over-receiving in this case, through subsidies, with which we are feeding the inflationary spiral even more. That's why I think the transformative measures... That the lehendakari has referred to a number of interesting investments. It is good to make investments as they tend to improve, perhaps, purchasing power stations, etc., and some energy issue. Of course it is good to promote certain areas, etc. That's good. But truly transformative measures necessarily go through the modification of our bureaucratic structure, the opening up of our markets, the improvement of the efficiency of the administration and the tax issue as well. It is true that in this House there are many groups that resist, we are in favour of a debate on the issue. But it is that right now what is needed, and that is what we are defending, is a fall, as an urgent deflation in this case, of the IRPF. I shall now refer to the proposals or measures announced by other groups. Well, starting a little by order. Well, the Mixto-Vox group did raise a direct tax reduction. We can support that, too. What happens is that we now understand that the quick and the necessary thing to do is to quickly contain this situation. That is why we propose a pre-emptive and preventive measure, which is that deflation. And of course it is therefore necessary to make a review of public expenditure that is made in order to bring it into line with reality. The measures relating to administrative and other expenditure, because of course it is an issue that I believe... That is that I do not understand the need for many times not to answer the question. Every time we ask: "Hey, it is necessary to reduce the administrative structure", they always come out with the same data: "It is that, Mr Gordillo, eight out of ten euros we dedicate to social policies". Man, eight out of ten euros we devote not directly to social policies aimed at the citizen, man, of course, and to paying for the whole structure, the officials, the institutions that work to guarantee these services. It's obvious. I'd make a small correction. It's eight out of ten euros. The other two out of every ten euros I don't think are going to go full on investments, because if we don't run half, then listen, one out of every ten euros we're going to spend on the famous remnant. And I really liked the phrase that the..., because it was very revealing, I pointed it out here, I've been taking notes very carefully, the phrase of the spokesman for the Basque Nationalists, Mrs. Berrojalbiz, who came a moment when she said "No, no. It is that this has been a planned and thought-out remnant." Well, this is tremendous. I mean, a planned and thought-out remnant. I mean, I... That is, your group has sought to create a parallel budget. I have the regular budget and then here because I'm saving to have a parallel budget, it's kind of the message. I understand the phrase that Mr Lehendakari said of "Hey, we have some remnants, we are going to go and execute them carefully and we are going to take advantage of this situation". Obviously. I have said this many times, I think it is good that we can have a contingency fund, a contingency fund, but that it is regulated, limited and dedicated to specific issues. Not doing what this government does successively, which is going to accumulate and then, every time someone asks or says in the House, the answer is that of always: "We'll go and see." That's the answer, we'll see about that. We've got guarded here, we'll see about that. Listen, let us raise in this case now, since there is the situation, let us raise a regulation in this case of a possible contingency fund, indeed, but with light, stenographers and let us see what it can be intended for. The spokesman for the Basque Socialists - sorry - made reference to the measures of the central government, which of course are fine. They're all prone to... They're all kind of subsidized, which, I insist, they're fine, we'll support. And in the Congress of Deputies I know that, come on, the two groups of this coalition are also analyzing it. But, of course, we didn't get to the root of the problem. If we are only engaged in grant-type measures, for man... The Lehendakari has recalled that the Basque Government supported, and is right, and correct, the Declaration of the Palma. I thought I understood from the La Palma Declaration that the President of the Government of Spain had told the autonomous presidents that there was going to be a revision of taxes on the low. I thought I understood that. But I'll probably be wrong. I'm sure I was wrong. In any case, of course, the Basque economy is growing, they are growing below what the Basque Government had planned logically, that would have happened the other way, but, well, it is growing. But, man, I think we have to bear in mind that we come from 2020 with a very serious decline in GDP. So, man, say we're growing solid and so on. Yeah, we're growing up. But we are coming from a drop of 10%, a little bit more, almost 11. of 10% of GDP in 2020. Man, I think we can have a sensible, reasonable debate with the same data all over the world. Therefore, I insist, we the measures that are being proposed are being analyzed and we are in favour of supporting them, but it is that if we do not make structural changes, this will serve nothing, it will be another patch, it will be another patch... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... we're analyzing and we're in favour of supporting them, but if we don't make structural changes, this is not going to do any good, it's going to be another patch, it's going to be another patch. There is one question that does seem particularly relevant to me: if we have a tax system of our own which we are all so proud of, why do we not use it positively for this issue? I'll insist again. It is that other autonomous communities that lack this own tax system show a certain ability to grow faster, especially to get out of... The crises hit us all, that is obvious, but the issue is in the speed and capacity we need to respond quickly to the crisis. I insist, and not only with subsidy policies, that of course they are necessary, but it is the tirite. That's for the wound. What is needed is a basic correction of the problem that is causing such issues. Then we have seen other models that they propose: to raise taxes, to equal the taxation of European countries and so on. All right, what happens is that in other European countries there are other issues: here there is free dismissal, for example in Denmark; or, for example, the burdens of companies are much smaller. So, man, the debate is good to have it and we can have it someday. Then he's... By the way, I'm also very interested in what the spokesman for Podemos and so on said. But, of course, when there is a problem, it is not that there may be a situation of labour stress, etc., unemployment, we ban dismissals. Man, that's what I... ERTE. The Japanese theme has been very interesting. It is a very interesting topic the Japanese theme. Man, I don't know if your group will also support the issue of Japanese culture related to strikes; strikes to Japanese, but, finally. Japan's inflation has an explanation. I do not have time now to enter the debate, but, man, it is an economic system, a social system very different from ours. But, well, I don't mind analyzing that kind of proposal. What I am proposing - and with this I am finishing - is that we make an effort on the part of the groups, not only by proposing - which are necessary - now immediate measures, as Mr Lehendakari originally said of the three, but that we are also able to propose and agree on truly transformative measures and that they really prepare society, the Basque Government and the economic structure for what can be brought upon us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u18	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u19	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors. Firstly, I will start with a reflection that my colleague, the spokesman for my parliamentary group, made in the initial speech. Just as with the financial crisis of 2008 we had to abide by the underlying cause and what was the reason behind it and, therefore, from there, analyze and determine what the exits had to be, in this case we also have to do the same exercise. The financial crisis of 2008 had much to do with the lack of control, the intervention of an open economy, which did not regulate the access of certain investment funds or, where appropriate, bank capitalization funds in the real estate sector. And from there, that miscontrol generated what we already know. And from there, the recipe for austerity, of course, what it meant was not a planning of an increase in the remaining budgets that have allowed us to act responsibly in this new crisis, but what it meant was a great deal of pain for a lot of our citizens and, in turn, also for many companies. Of course, not a planning of remnants that have now allowed us to have one available to deal with this crisis. Just as in order to know how to deal with the financial crisis we have to reflect on what the structural problems were at that time, we should also today reflect on what the structural problems that have led us to the present. And, of course, the illegitimate and unilateral war that Russia has waged by invading Ukraine, of course, has been an element that has more forcefully and virulently reflected what is a problem in the supply chains of raw materials, again in an open economy, unplanned and, in this case with regard to energy, a lack of energy planning on the part of our country specifically on renewable energies. And it has reflected what has been an excessive bet - in our opinion - over the last few decades on gas. An energy, indeed, in transition for decades, but that for quite some time now I believe that the Basque Government could have determined that there were alternative energy access formulas, which in this case did not pass exclusively through gas; to the point of setting up, by the way, a public company such as SHESA of hydrocarbons. In this case it was possible to do so or, failing that, also to participate in capital of other types of companies that have also devoted themselves to the promotion of hydrocarbons. We believe that the structural elements that have led to 90% of the energy we consume in Euskadi now depend on third parties must be taken into account. That is the substantial element for us that we should be addressing today. Indeed, the short-term measures that have been proposed both in the state and here in the Basque Country, and Mr Lehendakari today has reviewed the initiatives that have been put in place and those that are intended to be put in place. It will play, as has been said before, to make a reflection of all of them and an analysis. Right now, of course, we are not going to have the capacity to value all of them with the responsibility of life and with the rigour due, but, beyond the short-term measures that we believe must be put in place to meet the needs of those who are going through the worst, we believe that today too was the time to set at least a compromise on the need to reach consensus on the course that we need to take as a country with regard to the energy transition. We believe that this is a priority objective that we should achieve today, in this monographic plenary session. We know that we will not agree, in view of the debates that have taken place over the past two years, probably in the way, in the way forward. The objective I believe is that a majority of most parliamentary groups... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of the debates that have taken place over the past two years, probably in the way, in the way forward. The aim, I believe, is that the majority of the parliamentary groups here do indeed have to go through, and the war in Ukraine has made this even more evident. The way. In the way I think there are differences. Some of the proposals that our parliamentary group and others put forward call them utopian and caricaturize them in those terms, we believe they are achievable in view of what has been implemented in other countries, but in any case, it is true that there are elements that differentiate us in how to make that transition. Some believe that this transition must be accelerated in view of the gas commitments made in recent years, we now have to move towards renewable energy, and we must do so quickly and by making all the conditions necessary for that transition to take place more flexible. And besides, accompanied or accompanied to that transition with precisely the oligopoly. I know the term doesn't like it, but finally, doing business with energy, which is an essential good, usually contributes to a natural oligopoly. And in this case, the reality is that there are those who want to make that transition in the company of that oligopoly, which to some extent has also led us here. We will not demonstrate what it has to do with private investment for the development of strategic projects. We believe that private investment is at times essential for implementing certain strategic projects also within the framework of the energy transition, as in many other aspects. But we believe that in something as vital and as important as the energy transition, the public has to lead the way. And we think it's not the case here sometimes. We believe that sometimes the way it goes is marked by certain private interests that they want to boost their business portfolio. We believe that here today two models are being clarified to get out of this crisis, which are actually many other crises, right? A very well represented model, in this case I do believe that to some extent somewhat caricature by the People's Party-Citizens and Vox already... Finally, I am not going to even enter, and I believe that another model which does address democratisation in access to energy, the redistribution of wealth through a tax reform that is necessary and certainly not the containment of expenditure. We believe that those three elements that are fundamental and strategic to us clash frontally with what the People's and Citizens' Party, and I no longer say Vox, pose. What we are not entirely clear about is, in this case, the Basque Government and those who support the Basque Government, which option they are leaning for. Because I understand that it is often quite useful to say that of course your proposals to the People's Party and Citizens are not acceptable to those of the People's Party and to put themselves in an intermediate space and occupy that centrality of the board both in the management of the crisis and in any other aspect, but the reality is that then in practice they sometimes miss out on discursive elements that are very similar to those of the People's Party and Citizens. And for example, and I stress this again, in terms of having contained expenditure in a planned and responsible way over the last ten years, it is true that there were such fixed fiscal and containment rules at European level, but in any case to put it and to boast of what has been a containment of public expenditure in the last decades to say that there is a very heavy remnant of responsibility that has been exercised and that from there the use of that remnant will also use it with a certain degree of responsibility, because we do not think that it is too far removed from what the People's Party and Citizens could come to suggest. Mr. Gordillo is, in fact, acquiescing. And therefore, we believe that this should not be the model for the recovery of Euskadi in economic terms. We believe that it should be deployed yes, a public investment beyond even those 500 million that were already planned to be made before this crisis and that the advisor himself in attendance at questions from our parliamentary group, in this case specifically me, as to whether the money from the European funds for these strategic projects would not be received would be put on his own. He already said yes, that he would put his own money from the Basque public coffers to develop these strategic projects. So, I don't know what's new about putting those strategic projects into action. Necessary? Yeah. There will, of course, be nuances on certain issues of these projects that our parliamentary group does not share, but in any case they are necessary because they serve as a lever and a transformation of the economy. In short, and with this I conclude, we believe that today from this monograph we should leave, at least in the second part, with a commitment to what the future horizon this country needs. And in our view, there are three specific lines: one, an energy transition that does not happen because energy oligopoly marks us on the horizon; on the other hand, it does make use of public resources for economic recovery, all those that are necessary and the indebtedness of the previous budget was not done with all or with all the capacity that was available because they are reference rates that are fixed in relation to the Joint Commission; and then in any case, and thirdly, we believe that they have to be done in the company of the social workers so that what does not, of course, put at risk the work is the wage rise and living conditions of the workers. We believe that it is necessary to do an exercise so that workers do not pay for what this crisis entails through inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u20	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The socialist Basque, Mr Price, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen. This morning when Mrs Iriarte, on behalf of the group proposing this debate, began her speech, she told us that there were no tools to deal with it, that we were late, that she hoped that the debate would be missed today, in short, it would start with a tone... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...afternoon. He hoped that the debate would not be wasted today; that is, it would start with a certain tone of regret, which we have then been addressing with the other speeches. I believe that this risk of having no tools, of the debate not falling into a broken bag, has probably had its high point in the lehendakari's own intervention. An intervention that can be discussed why it has done so at this time, as could have been discussed if it had been announced yesterday or tomorrow. But it seems to me that it is an appropriate place for Parliament itself, where the lehendakari is also accountable, to announce political, economic and social measures which it intends to take forward, I suppose at the next Governing Council. Therefore, it seems to me that it can also be an element of some deference, if you want to call it that, or as everyone wants to put it, the one that is done right here, and that we can even have some time to evaluate the proposals that you have made, because then there is going to be a recess, then the resolutions are going to be put forward, and at that time, even the resolutions themselves can be measuring their intensity or not, their interest or not in the measures that have been announced. It seems to me that the announcement in Parliament is correct, because it is also done with a certain degree of prudence, but also with a certain perspective, also with an announcement of more possibilities. It is argued that a package of measures is currently envisaged, but that this package of measures depending on how it is evolving, how the situation is evolving, can be extended or can be redirected; let us therefore say that we not only have a package of measures, but we also have an expectation, why, because there are certainly some resources. Resources that are part, let's say, of ordinary life, and then also of extraordinary life. It seems like appealing here to the funds coming from Europe, to the agreements of the parliaments or to the investments of the budgets, is like saying things that were already part of the landscape. Well, they are policies that are made with public resources to move investment, to meet social needs, for public services; that is, of course, the world is not invented from the point of view of a problem, but the world existed, the problem is added, and there is a response to that problem. But everything else, of course, adds up so that the economic model, the social model, the model of public services continue to work, continue to be maintained, and therefore, generating economy, employment and also an element of well-being, as it corresponds to a society of welfare levels, which... as is ours; therefore, indeed, all that sum and the money do not come from a premeditated savings in which what was left for if ever had to be opened up, but, as has been explained here, I also believe that in that it has been clear that the lehendakari has three origins: it has a provenance, which is that of at a time when public debt could be incurred with a very low interest, it was chosen to go to an important debt in order to be able to have economic possibilities, among other things, because that occurs at a time when the war was not there, but there was the covid, that is, that there were other problems that also generated some uncertainty about what could be generated. But then it also arises that there are remnants because the collection has risen. Indeed, as everyone knows, a greater contribution of collection, among other things, because the year 2021 was a year of important growth, which is why I again insist that..., and it is not a technical issue about crisis or not crisis, that is, we do not give a feeling of distress and extreme difficulty in the economy, in employment, in industry, etc. Let us not pose a situation of despair that is homologable to other things, because, indeed, or to other crises of other times, because, indeed, that does detract from consumption, it does detract from investment, that is, that..., as has been said many times, money is fearful and contracts much the capacity to spend. So, finally, let's give it to..., I say from the point of view (?I don't care what it's called, but let's give it to the moment of crisis that we're living, to the situation that we're living, the dimension that it really has. Our society continues to function, problems are added, we respond to them, and also, since we do not know what their duration and weight will be, logically, we must have an expectation of prudence and reserve for what can happen. Well, that said, I just wanted to give Mr Gordillo another thought, because one of the star debates, of course, is the tax debate. In fact, now that the People's Party has changed leadership at the level of Spain, one of the things that the leader is trying to become strong with is the request for tax cuts. Certainly, they are two completely different models in theory, because then we will see it in practice. In theory they are two different models, because who wants to build or who wants to support a collective society, a welfare society, a society where wealth serves everyone, even in different proportions, obviously has to bet that there is a public sector that has a certain power and that is able to intervene in the distribution of that wealth. Certainly, what you propose is another model, and it is, well, the one that... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...and be able to intervene in the distribution of that wealth. Certainly, what you propose is another model, and it is, well, the smartest one to get out more and take it away from you, that money is better in the citizen's pocket, be an entrepreneur, a citizen on foot, etc. Better there than in a public resource system. Well, I understand that approach, because it obeys a kind of ideology, and indeed, you get it out. We pose something else and that's it, but the reality is sometimes a little clumsy, and first (?) And then I'm gonna tell him something else, so he can see I'm not going that way. In 2012, it seems to me that it was, 2012, 2013, I don't know if you will remember a famous meeting in which Mr Rajoy participated and in which Esperanza Aguirre was present, where there were meetings to collect signatures to propose that VAT should be lowered. It was a strong battle of the People's Party throughout Spain saying that VAT had to be lowered. You know that when Rajoy accedes to the government, the value of electricity production rises by 7%, the Special Electricity Tax rises by 5.11%, the VAT on electricity rises to 21%, they put the tax on the sun, they raise the IRPF five times, they raise the company tax four times, they raise the VAT twice, they raise the IBI twice, they raise the excise duty, the lottery and the sugary drinks, and in fact, they make up to 50 tax increases. If this were a hot debate, I would now have to say: do you see how you say one thing and do another? I'm not going that way. Do you see how when government is needed public resources?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u22	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u23	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Listening to all the positions, I think what we have now is to identify those approaches that we can agree on. There are issues that are far from reality. I already said this in my first speech, which can only be raised from the ignorance of what it is to govern, or from the daring to ask for everything that can be very attractive to the citizenry, but that it is impossible to materialize. Nor can one ask that which (?) in our budgetary agreements, that which is intended to be channelled through future laws in this Parliament, or that which was not managed to agree with previous laws, and I remember that of the RGI with certain exceptions for... which they anticipated for the refugees. There was opportunity there, but well, there will be with the new law, but let's not mix, let's not mix debates, you can't ask what you don't push in those institutions where you rule. You can't ask for that which escapes our competitive framework and you can't ask for that which only sounds good, but which has no option of being concrete. It cannot be said, Mr Gordillo, that it is not spent on the mere fact of having a remnant when it is available, because it is planned. Remaining to meet needs, as has been done in the covid, as has been done so far and as will be done with the new measures announced by the lehendakari; therefore, point out well what I say, Mr Gordillo. An amendment to all the public policies of this Government cannot be made today. All this has been discussed here today, drawing on some occasion an image that does not correspond to reality. And the situation is complex. Obviously, but we are, and this Government, our Basque institutions, are responding. There is leadership, there is initiative and there are resources, but there have also been things in common, and in those we would have to repair. And that's our message for today. We've made a great effort these days. We have worked to share thoughts and try to bring positions closer and I hope that this afternoon will be reflected, because they are complementary measures that complement the set of actions that have already been launched: support for families, for businesses, for the productive fabric, for the most vulnerable sectors. Measures also to address future challenges, such as the green, clear political transition, ours and that of this Government, energy efficiency, savings and impulse to renewable energy. It's not something new, but it's necessary now. The commitment is clear: from the (?), commitment to the (?)COP, at COP21 in Paris, and this year in Glasgow; the Waste Management Plan, the bet is to value 85% of waste; the Strategic Investment Plans and Euskadi Next, to support strategic investment and transformation projects; electric mobility, renewable energies or the Basque Hydrogen Corridor. A sustainable and inclusive development model must continue to be promoted. Ambitious but inescapable challenges, more if we want to leave a better world to our next generations. We are faced with a challenge of a country that requires courage and not cowardice, a challenge of the future that must go beyond this legislature. It requires transforming ideas, as you said, Mrs. Iriarte, as they have done in Education. Do so also in energy policy, because, Mr Soto, what is important, of course, and there they are, and there we will agree on what, but how is very important. Pass, plant, put on the table your model. The way you put it, let's talk, let's do it, let's move on, let's move on. I just hope that today we can move forward and lay the foundations for that future green pact. That is how it has made known to the different political groups, because it is our will. If we want the agreement, let us put aside everything or nothing, and let us work on the elements that unite us: assistance to refugees, energy poverty, employment, the liquidity of the business fabric, the price of raw materials, the energy model, aid to the most vulnerable groups, coordination, continuous monitoring, additional resources for families who are experiencing the worst. These are fields that we have worked on in our proposals. Proposals that respond to this initiative, responding to what is required in EH Bildu's monographic initiative, and I read: "Measures to protect the economy and the people of Euskadi from the consequences of Ukraine". We can discuss... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... it is demanded, and I read: "measures to protect the economy and the people of Euskadi from the consequences of Ukraine". We can discuss other things and other aspects, as they have been put on the table today, but that is not what this initiative calls for. With this we will discuss the proposals, the measures focused on the debate, not those that seek to redirect our policies and the policies of this Government. And those measures we can and must meet. And if giving local response to the invasion of Ukraine is what we all want, unity would be the best response. One of the things that can happen to us is that we are not aware of the gravity and risks we face, and we are tempted to take advantage of the situation to attack the Government. This is something I think we should avoid, because we have strong institutions, which have proved to be up to the point of the moment. And for those today who question the robustness of our model, I offer you data. The latest Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey: "well-being and poverty indicators have improved significantly in the last two years in Euskadi." National Institute of Government Quality, University of Gothenburg: "The Basque Country, best government of the state and among 25% of the best in Europe". Study of the European Territorial Planning Network Observatory: "Quality of life and balance, a priority in the Basque Country". "Bizkaia and Basque Country referents in Europe". Energy, Research and Innovation. Eustat says: "Euskadi exceeds the average of the European Union and places its position at the same level as the group of strong European innovative countries". "The European Commission recognizes Euskadi as a centre of excellence," published the Regional Innovation Panel 2021. The Orkestra Competitiveness Report of 2021: "The Basque Country" - and I literally read - "has built over several decades, proactively and consistently, an effective and industry-centred territorial strategy. Its transformation towards an internationally competitive territory oriented towards innovation and with the ability to generate wealth with a high degree of inclusiveness". Regional Competitiveness Report the same, placing the Basque Country and Navarre among the first three most competitive communities. Articles in international media, (...). And all this is accompanied by figures. Azken datua, Innobasquekoa: "The total investment of R & D in Euskadi will reach a record figure of 1,637 million euros in 2022". In short, a government, the Basque Government, works and will continue to work with all those instruments that are at its disposal to generate an attractive ecosystem that allows us to deepen the roots of industry in our territory and to remain strong and a source of employment and well-being. An attractive ecosystem and a robust model. A country that has been able to overcome the various crises we have been through. Each is an exam for which the Basque student has studied, not the day before the exam, but for many years. And that is why, on this occasion, we will also know how to overcome ourselves, and we will do it better than other latitudes, precisely because of this strategic planning. True, there are many fears and uncertainties that surround us. We know that what comes to us is not easy to manage, the impact on social and economic is already enormous, but we have leadership, and we have resources. This government has them. And that is why they propose answers in the humanitarian, social and economic fields. This Government has been able to offer an urgent and coordinated response, which we hope will be reinforced by the commitments we can make here today. Immediate responses through our sustainable human development model and the serious management of public accounts. It is this responsible management that will allow, as Mr Lehendakari has announced, next Tuesday in the Governing Council that it can approve various rescue measures that will reach people, SMEs, the primary sector, trade. That's speed, that's effectiveness, that's response. And Mrs. Iriart, here's your plan. I don't know, like you want to call her. I heard Mr. President well: Two hundred million measures. besides what was previously established, more money is laid upon the table. The superfluous by applying to the senses and the needs of society. That's why the superfluous ones are used. That's why there are leftovers. And you, when you rule in your councils, act carefully as you do, and keep your superfluous ones for the time being necessary. The responsibility point is important, as I see. ) When they are. In order to trust the institutions of the Basques, to present projects for the future, the undertakings are to be placed on the table, to listen to the needs of people, to build a better and more free Euscadi. Leadership, commitment, dedication, work, trust. That's our model. And they ask us from Euskal Herria Bildu and We can be certain. Well, that certainty is called a state of Basque welfare. A state of well-being built, fed and developed for years by Basque institutions, and that will serve to keep no one behind in this new crisis. A model of social cohesion that seeks to protect people by improving their quality of life and seeks to boost the economy and employment. And our proposals go that way. 44 resolutions with urgent measures to alleviate the effects of the invasion of Ukraine on individuals and businesses. And structural measures by driving, among other issues, the use of renewable energy and accelerating the transition to a new energy model. Because this war has pushed us to accelerate further towards the challenges of the future. And with these measures we want to strengthen our model, because it is the one that has allowed us to overcome past crises, and it is the one that will allow us to get out of the current one. A model that looks at people and the economic development of the country. Model that gives us confidence and that among all of us we can improve today. I invite you to it. Arratsaldean aukera paregabea dakkagu. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. At this point I interrupt the entire meeting until half-past three. The resolution proposal for the General Secretary of the legislature to register in general, to present, until two o'clock. The meeting was interrupted at one and thirty-five in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u25	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. The legal teams will have a period of 20 minutes in order to present solution proposals. Mr. Casanova, representative of the EH team, has it to begin with.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u26	Thank you, and good evening to all. I must confess that I have been forced to change the script a little after having seen what I saw this morning, and heard what I heard. I wanted to begin by making a reference to the refugees, because I think they are most suffering at this moment, and, well, the mention is made. But I'll soon focus on something else, even if I'm going back through the subject of the refugees in my interference. This morning we saw President Urkullu exhibit a series of solutions, if not formally. We have seen and heard EAJ's representative talk about the solutions that were not yet introduced. And, well, I shall also have some liberty to change the order, and not only to speak of the resolutions of my intervention, but to make a further reading of what I have heard this morning. And I have to say, for the first time, with the whole category and the somandidae, that the Eusko wasn't making any effort to come to an agreement with the Basque People, and make no effort to make a treaty with them. The form, however, though it has been painfully respected, has not expressed any real will in order to make an honest conversation, and to arrive at the arrangement according to this conversation. No effort. Zero. The Government has made zero efforts to reach agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu on the fundamental issues we are dealing with today. It has been limited to fulfilling - I don't know whether it is good or bad - the forms, but of course it has not made any sincere invitation to dialogue, it has not developed any sincere process of dialogue, in which proposals and receptive proposals are exchanged with sincerity to try to reach great agreements. Today, the Government has sent the lehendakari - I would say in this war context in which we are - to parachute the lehendakari to this full monograph; not because he does not have the right to be here, who obviously has the right to be here, who is also a parliamentarian, not because his presence is not timely at any time when he considers it appropriate, not because it is not well received, but because it has come to distort the normal functioning of a full of these characteristics, in which political groups speak, dialogue, make proposals and then arrive at or fail to reach agreements and refer them to the Government. The lehendakari came here today with a closed plan that gave no freedom to groups but to adhere or not adhere to the proposals that were there. And he has instructed the parliamentary groups to support him in trying to find in the proposals of the rest of the parties elements of coincidence that can fit in to give an image that they remember things; when the will was not to agree absolutely nothing, but in any case, as he said, to seek coincidences. You, Mr Lehendakari, have a perfect right to act like this, it is your decision. If you want to do things alone, you have the perfect right to do it. What you have no right to is to deceive people. What he has no right to say is that he is seeking unity and is seeking agreements when he has not entered into any sincere process to seek unity or agreements. You have also come here this morning to oppose the opposition with a speech full of disqualifications, in which, apart from selling an idyllic image of the country, selecting a number of positive realities that actually exist, you have come to disqualify the criticisms that you have received and to rename in some way the terminology or expressions that we have used since the opposition. When the opposition says something you don't like, you say we lack realism. When the opposition says that there is a problem, you say that we are doing catastrophic things, when the opposition says that we have to invest money from which we have saved – at least part of it – you say that we want to put an end to all savings. And when the opposition asks for a plan, you say that the opposition asks to make a clean table with everything that has been done so far, because a plan, you will have seen a plan. Then we'll talk about the plans, it looks like we're lying about anathema when we talk about making a plan. You have made a form of speech that betrays logic, which is a usual speech, which is so common that it even has a name: it is the fallacy of the straw man. You invent a supposed rival, you invent the supposed expressions or arguments of that rival, and you rebut not what you are being told, but what you attribute to others without being true. Therefore, that is the first reflection. We understand that it has been a distorting element on the part of a Government that has not sincerely sought the agreement. And then we have to say about the proposals proposed to us that it's a bunch of lace, that it's not much money, that it's late. And further, helps to logic, not the logic of rights, nor the logic of strategic modification. We were just asking for a plan, yes, a plan. And we don't know why, perhaps for the first time since EH Collector asked for it, it's become the word plan here in this attic. To make a plan in front of a situation like this is a mere logic, and we still don't understand that when 40 days have passed, governments have been prevented from making a structured plan. It's not a question of names, that's what a plan means: the unity of measurements, the arcticulation of measurements, the consistency and integration of measurements. There's a plan that has the budget, it has some definite targets that can be tracked around a plan. And the plan also expresses the will to face a problem as a whole. You keep pileing up the sizes. You can make a plan. Spain has a plan. España responde, but the president doesn't answer, he doesn't answer the questions of this town. And we thought it would be a plan not only from a structure point of view, but from the point of view of government there was an opportunity for a plan with all social and political agents to start a conversation. That's not done. There was a plan, there was an option to continue a gradual progress of its realization... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... All of them, interviews to start a process. That's not done. There was a plan, there was an option to continue a tracking level of its activity, to perform a steady accounting exercise, and also to follow the evolution of the situation. We don't want to do that, and we repeat it, we don't know why. We were also asking for a change of logic in the government planning, to transfer from economic war to economic protection. Because we think it was important to project a sense of security in people, and the sense of security is not projecting measures, if they are improvised as problems arise; but if, in advance, people give a general frame, in which, whatever happens, they can feel certain of what happens. We assume that the precautions to protect people should also be articulated to protect energy access. It's also economic activity. And also in order to protect wages and employment, people at first, people in their first place, and people among people the most vulnerable, as I said before, in the first place. The rebels are now gathering up in our country, and we have clearly to open their arms. What we need to support is selective solidarity. I mean, to say yes to some people and not to others. But we are not to oppose the rights of some to the rights of others. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Sino certar los brazos a las personas que buscan refugio. That's why we want to be a reception people, and we're here to announce all resources and jurisdictions, because we need all tools to be really a reception nation. Babestu behar dugu ére, energize Arloan, go out to say self aurrean berrien, jendearen et a herritaron oinarrizko eskubideak. We, from Euskal Herria Bildu, we and we asked for the creation of an energy bonus. A general bonus to be established on the basis of income, but to be extended to a good percentage, to the majority of the population. A measure that has been taken, for example, in Germany. In France, what has been done is to assume the freezing of electricity prices by imputing these deficits to the electricity company, which is a public company. We're talking about things. This can't be done here. Here it would be called communism, asking for a public electricity company. In Germany, which is also not a communist country, the cheque has been taken out, and a widespread compensation has been established for the population as a whole for the brutal rise in energy prices. But that can't be done here. It is just that I understand that it cannot be done here, if Madrid cannot even be asked to consider Community boilers as small consumers, and not as large consumers. And you can't compensate the people of this country, that by living in a large building or in a large community, you're seeing how you're paying 200, 300 and 400 euros more a month. Yes, in view of what, for example, Geroa Bai, does approve in the Parliament of Navarre, here we look elsewhere, because obviously, on issues such as energy bonds or public electricity companies, because they really are on another planet. And I want to talk about energy, because we are seeing a lot here lately that, of course, we have to bet on renewables. But we cannot put in a mill, because these evil ones - it is not said but implicitly, of Euskal Herria Bildu - when it is going to put in a mill, because they are already protesting. And we're going to say it with total clarity. The Basque Autonomous Community is at the tail of the Spanish State in the development of renewable energies. And it is behind the development of renewable energies, not because there are protests about the use of wind energy. But because the Basque Nationalist Party, which has been in power in this country for 45 years, has been a subsidiary, in the field of energy, of Iberdrola and Petronor. And he hasn't made any historic bets on renewable energies. Yes, for the nuclear, yes, for the gas, yes, for the fracking, yes, for the oil. But not for renewables. And now when time is cast on them and the fruit of their decades-long negligence, they are in a situation in which they have to make a rapid deployment, instead of looking for dialogue with citizens and political parties, put the mills where the big companies tell them they have to put, and the citizen finds out by the newspaper that they are going to put next to the house, a tower of 200 meters. Do things right. Dialogue with the opposition, dialogue with the communities, dialogue with the citizenry, and you will see how the deployment of renewables - which must be done yes or yes, yes or yes - has less resistance than you want or pretend to have. And they wouldn't have if things were right. What you can't do is what you're doing and pretending people aren't responding. And we also plan other measures. In the field of companies, in the region of corporations, there may be more consciousness there. And I used to say that in the plenea before, it is true that more measures have been taken in the field of training. We believe that the first sector must be encouraged and protected especially by the fact that the sector of commerce must also be protected. We see some signs or gestures in the right direction. And if we see it there, we have no problem in accepting it. What we think is more urgent, what we've heard today about our bachelors. It's not acceptable, Mr. President, what you said this morning. At this inflational moment, the hardest moment of the decades, no government can say that they have nothing to say about me. You've outdied the subject in six lines. And what you've said at other times from the government, you don't dare now, or you don't mean it. You yourself, as soon as you are a member of the legislature, voted that in 2017 this chamber there was a proposal as well as that of a general ascent. You, too, in the budget negotiation have agreed that the minimum wage should be paid to keep our lives at a cost. When they offered you that, now you said no. And we did not excuse any particular figures, but we thought that a government and a legislature, with a greater unity than possible, would contribute to the weakest part of the expression. That is to say, he who is losing the capacity of bribes, that is to say, of the labourer, to maintain a little in a very severe state. And what you've done is that it's a thing that's got to happen. If this be admitted, you have refused to use the political influence you have adopted, and you have left the majority of this people helpless before this difficult situation. And that there will be consequences, that people will be impoverished. And if wages are still standing below inflation, what to say about social preparations. We have to say this again, not... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... If wages are being stopped under inflation, what to say about social preparations. We must repeat that we do not understand your planning about this. When we ask that social benefits be updated to respond to the brutal inflationary moment that we are experiencing, the response, the official proposal, the ebazpena that has been presented to us by the Government is to continue to respond to the requests of RGI in the offices of Lanbide, which adds the same thing as saying that the doors of Lanbide are not closed, that is to say, that they continue to do exactly the same. As I said, in the face of an inflationary moment when 10% of inflation means that wages and social benefits are 10% less, if that has a negative influence on wages in general, on those who have an income set on the minimum acceptable for not excluded from the community, what influence has a loss of 10% of purchasing power. A dramatic influence, and if nothing is to be done about it, does not give a structural response and, in any case, resorts to ad hoc aid, to AES or otherwise, is to distort the subjective right to have a minimum income that ensures that it is not excluded in this society. That is what it means at the moment to turn your back on an update of social benefits. And fiscal policy, well, fiscal policy is also a bit of wages. Wages when the economy goes well, you don't have to touch wages because you can jeopardize the recovery; and when the economy goes badly, you don't have to raise wages either because the economy goes badly. Well, with taxation, the same goes for a little bit. We have been talking here about the government as it was talking about the Versailles Pact or sticking to what issue of the European Council. We cannot talk about wages, we cannot talk about taxation, nor can we establish a position. Fiscal policy, it is a matter of talking about fiscal policy, because we have had years of crises that are facing bad than good, many times worse than good. In any case, accumulating impressive debt levels. It is high time that fiscal policy was restructured to address at least two key issues: first, green taxation that would allow it to be complementary from taxation, also to energy transition policy, financing some things and deter other practices incompatible with that energy transition. And also a tax reform that faces one of the big problems we have as a planet, which is the imbalance in income distribution. And therefore, we do understand that it made sense, without entering into a concrete definition of all the terms of that tax reform, to have spoken today in favour of a new fiscal policy that addresses that green taxation and that redistributive purpose. Therefore, sentitzen dugu, bathe gaur ekarri digute propositionen itxi bat, Gobernuak egina. They have confused a legislative chamber, as I said, with a resonance chamber. They could have presented these proposals at a press conference, but they have come to Parliament and have forced and bound their political groups simply to seek in the proposals of the other groups coincidences with a programme that was already closed. There will therefore be agreements today, yes, there will be agreements and we are not going to close to supporting any small proposal, however isolated it may be, or which will benefit citizens. There will be agreements, but there will be no agreement. There is not going to be a big country agreement, there is not going to be a unity exercise because the Government has ruled it out because the Government did not want it. He was talking about... I described Pedro Sánchez as a solitary plainer, and I believe that Mr Urkullu, who today you have shown is also a solitary plainer. To be a lonely plainer, all he lacks is a plainer, because he is actually a lonely plainer on a wooden horse in our scales that does not move from the site and we see that he is responding to this crisis with the same logics as the previous ones. We understand that this latest crisis must be placed in a context of a succession of crises that reflect a truly systemic problem. We're talking about climate crisis, we're in a climate emergency. We just got out, or we're still getting out, of the pandemic crisis. We come from the 2008 crisis, from the crisis that the countries of the north imposed in the countries of the south in 2011, and we understand that we are facing a moment no longer of paradigm change, but a moment when change has become the new paradigm, and therefore we must have the capacity to reflect and to combine urgent palliative measures in the short term with structural reflections, with reflections for the future and with the changes that we will obviously have to give because at this time and many times we have criticized the anglicisms that are used from certain governmental instances, but if I are allowed to play words, thinking that this is going to happen and that we will see the business as usual is simply (wanderful?) Thinking. Things are changing, things are changing and we need to respond, as I said, in the short term, but also with structural measures. There is more to be done, and more to be done. We'll keep fighting. Yamos dicho que no hodo un grand accerdo hoy, aunque sígunos accerados de menor calado, pero dese luego en Euscala, a pesar del disprecio a nus propuestas y de que que que que no se resndos las adecdadadas adecdadas, we will never make politics out of the bowels. Next time, with this and all the other matters, we'll be there to defend our interests when we need our help. Sanchez, the President of Spain, has offered an 11 state agreement to the opposition. We have an opposition here, EH Collect, 11 times asked Urkulluri to make an agreement, but 11 times we've been told not, but it's gonna be 12th, and we'll continue to give shared answers to the strategic problems that this town needs. This month, on the 17th of April, it's always been an important meeting for EH Bilté, not especially for the past few years, with the habit of festivals now and perhaps not the most bulky, but for the Basque Country, New Day has always been the finest holiday of the year. Other men keep this view for the day of the party, but we are always the first to fill the people, always the first Axe, the first people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours. [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. And thanks to the groups. The truth is that in today's plenary, which has been an intense, long and widening plenary, and that it has been a little the conclusion of a series of days – weeks in some cases – of contacts in which we have participated, because we wanted to participate and because we understood that it was our responsibility to participate, to try, as far as possible, to bring forward positions, there were some issues in which it is clear that we are not going to be able to reach agreements and in which we are not going to be able to bring forward positions - which would be desirable on our part - but on other issues we have made great efforts to reach agreements, especially to show that an issue that many groups here do not seem to want to recognize at times. Hey, rule is hard, rule is not an easy situation. And, by the way, our group welcomes the presence of the lehendakari here today with us all day long, because, moreover, I believe that it is a matter for this debate of seriousness, the solemnity that it must have. So no one should be invited to his own home, but we welcome Mr Lehendakari's presence, of course, as it could not be otherwise, and he has even participated in the debate. Having said that, we - as I said earlier - have made great efforts to bring together positions in some areas. And, in this regard, we will support a large number of resolutions on the proposal of the government groups. A lot. We have made an important effort here. And also, in this same sense, the groups of the Government will help to bring forward some 11 resolutions, also from our group, which is about one third of those that we are presenting. Of course, the issues that I will also outline below that we would have liked and believed that it is necessary, and that we believe that it will have to be done in the end in any case, and this was the time to do so, but well, they have remained there for the time being. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I could be happy, because in the end we have participated, we have reached an agreement on some matters, because of the thirty-three or few motions we have made for a resolution to this Parliament, more or less one third will come forward. But no, I'm not happy. I could be very pleased, because, indeed, there is a broad level of support on the part of the House, a series of resolutions, which will therefore count on this legitimacy, but I cannot give my full satisfaction. I can't, I couldn't. Why? Because I believe that, although the resolutions that are going to come forward today are in general terms, with the corresponding criticism can be positive, it represents only part of the solutions that we need at this time, which is more complicated than it seems that some groups want to recognise. The economy - not just the Basque, the Spanish, the European - already gives symptoms, important symptoms, for a long time. And so far, ladies and gentlemen, we have endured two blows, two hard blows: the first has been that of the pandemic - there is no further explanation here - it has been a personal, human, social and economic blow; and the second blow, it has been that when the economy could start to recover a certain cruising speed again, another important blow comes that has been caused particularly in Europe by this invasion that we already believe the groups in this House have condemned. A third blow would not be able to withstand it if we did not carry out the reforms and if we did not carry out a series of proposals which I understand have been parked today. We will try to be more persuasive with the groups in this House, and we will also take them to other bodies. What's missing, ladies and gentlemen? You know that. I will reduce, as far as possible, my intervention. I'm not going to be repetitive, but I did want to synthesize them briefly. The issue of taking inflation seriously is missing. Inflation, ladies and gentlemen, is a tax; above all it is a tax on the most needy; it is a tax almost formally invisible - it does not appear in any law - but it is a very real tax. And to go down, to go down, I do not say to lower the types - which obviously - but I do not say to prevent a tax collection to cover public services - which of course is necessary - but to deflate, as they have already done, (...) some government in Spain at a certain time, in a situation where we have a two-digit inflation practically, or without practically, therefore, man, I believe it is a more than desirable measure. The Basque Government has shown that it has the capacity to coordinate, to agree on a contribution law - which is not easy, I understand it is not easy -. The Basque Government has shown that it has the capacity to coordinate with the Deputies, to announce investments - which I understand is not easy either -. The Basque Government has announced many times that it has the capacity to coordinate with the Deputies in many social policies - which I understand is not easy either. That is why I do not understand - neither my group nor I understand - why the Basque Government does not want to coordinate with the Deputies here on something so important and that they are asking so many experts in Spain - not just us and our groups in Congress, but so many specialists, so many institutions in Spain - which is the deflation of the IRPF, which is nothing more than to adjust the IRPF to what is currently inflation. That's something we don't understand. Nor do we understand why it is not possible to move forward on an agreement to progressively eliminate all the barriers that are causing and that are usually causing extra effort to all entrepreneurs who create jobs, with whom taxes are collected and with whom social services are paid. Because this, ladies and gentlemen, is a chain. Here you don't give a little button and you make the money that comes to the end of the person or the collector of a social service or whatever, but you have to promote and have the necessary conditions for a sufficient economic activity that generates employment and generates taxes with which to cover public services. That is why we do not understand that there is no desire on the part of the groups, in this case the Government and other groups too, to move towards agreements aimed at removing these barriers and ensuring greater openness... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... I wish the groups, in this case the Government and other groups too, to move towards agreements aimed at removing these barriers and ensuring greater market opening that will make it possible for other companies also to come to our land, to Euskadi, and that they also generate employment. On the subject of the modernization of the administration, for man, the comrades who share, ladies and gentlemen, with me the commissions in... in the commission of... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. I believe that we are going to adopt reform measures in the Administration that are not reform measures in the Administration. Three laws will come to Parliament which in practice mean codification of what is being done, codification of what is being done, there is virtually no real reform. And in the Public Employment Act it's going to be the same for us. The main problem, which we have never wanted to recognize, with the issue of public employment, is that it takes almost three years or more, if not the process of recruitment of civil servants, for we continue to keep it in three years. And that is because we have decided to opt for a model based on the civil service and not so much of employment, that is another story. What I am going to do is to argue that we do not take the need for reform seriously, and now we had an opportunity to reform the administration, which was going to provoke or produce a more flexible administration, more prepared for a very important thing, of which today, by the way, we have talked little, which is the issue of European funds and the management of European funds. That, by the way, I do not know where the European funds are, of which so much has been announced to us. The Basque Government had had no choice but to advance those amounts in order to cope with the first investments. Let's see if those European funds, which, according to the Central Administration, would either be transferred to the Basque Country, to Euskadi, or there are. On the issue of the remnants I do not extend. Everyone knows my opinion. I believe that the important thing, above all, is to make it clear that the government and the administration must do what they must do is to collect enough to provide the services and to have... And I can agree on that. And we can have a reserve fund, let's call it whatever it is, perfectly controlled, budgeted, etc., and reviewed annually. I can agree on that. But what we cannot agree with is that as long as there may be needs and as long as taxpayers, be individuals and be businesses, it is difficult for them to comply with fiscal obligations, we, however, are..., or the Administration - forgive me - however, continue to accumulate, continue to accumulate, without a definitive project of what to do with those remnants. And finally, it's very important, there's a question... I think it's been said this morning. I don't know if Mrs. Berrojalbiz said it, and she said it very well. It's an important matter. We're in a... And the lehendakari said it, I think I remembered. We are in a country, in a tremendously interconnected society, tremendously interconnected, and what happens anywhere because it ends up having, especially in economic matters, I mean, in business, industrial matters, it ends up having difficulties. The war in Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, you know, is going to mean approximately 20 to 30 % increase in the cost of semiconductors. Why? Because it turns out that there are two important factories in Ukraine, one in Mariupol, which have had to close, it is not known if they are destroyed or if they are simply closed, which is where one of the components for the manufacture of semiconductors is manufactured. And that will increase the difficulty, it will pose more problems in the distribution chain and, of course, it will also contribute to rising inflation. And inflation, ladies and gentlemen, is not solved by increasing subsidies, by increasing subsidy policy, which is positive, I insist. I'm just finishing up. And that's why our group is going to support many or most of the measures that have to do with grant policies and with policies to help the people who are worst going through it right now, of course they are. But that is only a temporary solution. What needs to be done is to prepare, not just society, the collection system in general and what in the administrative structure, for the moment when we can have another blow. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I insist, we have already had two strong blows in our economy. A third blow, if we do not make the necessary reforms, can have very negative consequences. Finally, every programme and every really serious project of... in this case, to undertake a series of measures that protect families, businesses and that, to the extent possible, also help markets and economic actors needs one very important thing, which is inter-administrative coordination. Inter-administrative coordination that is more necessary than ever. And, above all, we should also use it to assess what elements we can have duplicates and what elements we can correct in the future, especially to save those structural costs and to be able to use those savings precisely in social policies. Our group, and with this I conclude, supports, has supported a number of important measures from the groups that support the Government. He has shown his generosity and the height of vision at a particularly complicated time for everyone. We would also like to see reciprocity, not only in the agreements we have reached, but above all in the proposals we make, and we insist that we believe that they are more necessary than ever, and that they have proved their usefulness in other Spanish territories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Vox... Missa, representative of the Vox team, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Nor am I going to make an attack on the lehendakari, much less. I think he's at home, as they said. And if he is, we see him wrong; and if he is not, then we would also see him wrong. There will always be criticism. But I think he's representing what he has to represent. And from here we support him of course. Also to say that three weeks ago we were told in this House how urgent it is to put in place rapid actions and responses by the Government of Spain and the Basque Government in order to alleviate the enormous consequences that have on families...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u32	...and companies are having...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u33	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u34	... the increase in the prices of electricity, gas and petrol or commodities, which is also currently reflected in an inflation rate of around 10 %. Two weeks later, just over seven days ago, we were also heard saying that in Vox we will always be able to support realistic proposals to stop the loss of purchasing power of families and... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... seven days, they also heard us say that in Vox they will always find us in time to support realistic proposals to curb the loss of purchasing power of families, and ERTE's bleeds and company closures. But not just for a few, but for all Basques. Faithful to what we say, we will support so many proposals from the Basque Government, which we believe are feasible to help these families that such an evil is happening, as proposals by PP-Citizens. Since Vox, we have also prepared a package of realistic, feasible and easy-to-implement measures, which only require political will. Agile and effective solutions in the short term, in the form of direct aid, but also structural reforms that they pursue is a model of management based on austerity, something new in the current political landscape. A sound financial system, and to pave the way for a growing economic future. And that remnant of more than 1.8 billion that we have already been told not to touch, is now the main resource available to the Basque Government to lighten the rope that binds families, autonomous and small and medium-sized Basque entrepreneurs. A remnant for exceptional situations, they tell us. And we ask you, can there be a better destination for these funds, than to face, for example, a possible decrease in collection, to reduce indebtedness and to promote extraordinary investment plans? What is the purpose of this remnant? Even as Manah fell from heaven could not be more timely a fund to help all those who suffer the consequences of the current crisis. Consequence also of the previous one, of the health. A prolonged crisis over time that is leading farmers, fishermen, carriers, industries, entire families to face the payment of the highest gas and electricity bills in history. The liter of fuel, and even sunflower oil, at prices so far never seen. In Vox we have heard on the street, we have supported transporters, farmers, citizens on foot in their just demands. And for that reason, today we propose a lifesaver to hold onto. From Vox we demand the Basque Government to approve a battery of direct aid to the sectors affected by fuel and energy costs. The Basque industry is experiencing a critical moment. Cemeteries, iron and steel, metallurgical or chemical companies have come to this crisis very touched since the rise of energy prices began in summer. Now its situation is dramatic, with stops and partial closures due to lack of raw material. They threaten ERTE cascades, including creditor competitions, at a time when the Basque industry does not enjoy excessive health. This is reflected in the economic and social diagnosis made by 14 personalities of the world of the company, where it is concluded in a sharp way, that the Basque Country does not occupy leadership positions. That's obvious. We no longer occupy the head platoon as we used to. And if we don't do anything to reverse, Mr. lehendakari, we run the risk of ending up next to the broom car, the tail. Solutions include freezing direct or indirect taxes. It's in the Government's hand. Or reduce corporation tax by 10%. Not only is it clear that our industry is losing competitiveness, but we are no longer attractive to new investors and qualified professionals. A government that is so concerned and busy selling the Basque Country brand throughout the world should not have been overlooked the importance of strengthening our fabric, and supporting Basque and national companies. Or am I wrong, you've already predicted it? And in the face of the ERTE cascade that is coming, it is more than mandatory unnecessary to take action, to get ahead of that rain of dossiers that from Confebask predict. As I say to you, it is not a matter of alarmism, but our productive fabric cannot afford to return to the 2020 figures, and to those 208,730 workers who had to benefit from an employment regulation file. The reality is that these sectors are also key to the economic recovery of the Basque Country. And right now, all workers and entrepreneurs are living in a social and unsustainable situation, as they do not know if tomorrow they will be able to keep their jobs and support their families. What can you do? In Vox we propose to suspend the social security contributions of these employees at ERTE, as well as the monthly contributions that self-employed workers have to pay until the economic situation improves for them. On the other hand, the war in Ukraine has revealed the excessive dependence that our country and the Basque Autonomous Community have on basic necessities, such as cereals, soybeans or sunflower oil. A weakness that we can turn into a fortress, taking advantage of the beard lands that, from Europe, have liberalized so that our farmers can re-cultivate them and turn them into food and food supplies. At a time when the war in Ukraine prevents imports of mainly cereals and sunflower from this country, the planting of these beard lands and the ability to bet on local production is paramount. Self-supply. But this happens, as in the rest of the economic sectors, by removing the shackles from the energy bill, and, in particular, from the high prices of fertilizers. The countryside faces the spring planting campaign on irrigation farms, which includes maize crops, with the highest production costs in history. The rise in production costs, the regulatory change with respect to the obligations for the recovery of the so-called green payment. All this is a waste to our farmers. And it is that, if the liter of agricultural diesel was paid at 0.70 euros per liter last year, now around 1.40. The light needed for the water pumping system, we all know how fired its price. Along with these, the fertilizers. That's the other factor that brings local producers to their heads. In fact, it is the prices of fertilizers that have risen the most from 60% to 70%. And since EUR 1,867 million is for a long time, they will also agree with me in helping all those families and people who, selflessly, are welcoming those who are fleeing the horror of the war in Ukraine. There are about 2,000 people already in our community. But uncertainty about how the conflict will evolve in time and form leaves the door open to many more refugees arriving in search of shelter. This conflict has also brought to light the need to ensure our energy sovereignty. Our supply and the price we pay cannot depend on speculation from third countries. The Basques are paying the most expensive bill in history. The cost of the development of renewable energy is becoming very expensive for us. And the taxes set by successive governments of bipartisanism, too. In the hands of the Basque Government it is temporarily suspending the special tax on electricity, thus renouncing, by virtue of its powers, the tax... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... in the hands of the Basque Government is temporarily suspending the Special Tax on Electricity, thus renouncing, by virtue of its powers, the levy, liquidation and collection, transferring this savings to the final consumer: families, self-employed and enterprises. And in the hands of this Parliament, it is demanding that the Spanish Government lower the taxes on fuels, both the special tax on hydrocarbons in its two tranches, general and special by 50%, and VAT by reducing it from 21 to 10%. That's what we proposed from Vox, and today they have the opportunity to support us or to pull demagogy. We are used to being called populists, but families, self-employed and businesses will never get used to paying the most expensive bills in history. The Spanish chorus says that in a time of crisis it is important to tighten the belt. What matters, gentlemen, is to save, contain or adjust spending. The Basque families and workers are already doing it. Now, the ball is on your roof. On its roof it is carrying out a tax reduction and ending the abusive types intended to maintain the welfare state of politicians and superfluous spending. There are now 64 retired former senior Basque Government officials who receive a living wage. A privilege in itself difficult to understand, which in circumstances such as the present one frowns on insult. It is also the case that in the Basque Country in this we are also the first ones with a life complement so juicy and appetizing that far exceeds the money that would be received by those who collect the maximum retirement. A whole misconception for the common mortals that it's time to stop. And what about the dimensioned structure of high-ranking and trusted positions? We are talking about advisers, chiefs of staff, heads of service, office coordinators and a long and so on, which are a duplicity of functions and totally unnecessary unnecessary expenditure. From Vox we demand that this elephantic and dimensioned structure be thinned, giving priority to a necessary savings always and fundamental in these moments of contraction of the economy. Even more so with the light from the clouds, the gas fired and the workers ruined, what do we expect to eliminate subsidies to trade unions, employers, political parties and related foundations? It's not the time to feed grateful stomachs, it's the time to feed those who really need it. Is this demagogy and populism? In Vox we have it clear, that it is financed with the quotas of its affiliates. That would be fair. And I've been heard before about Vox's position on all taxes that involve unjust, double or disproportionate confiscations of the assets of all Spaniards and Basques. Because here we also pay twice for the same thing. And until he dies, it's expensive. As our spokesman in the Congress of Deputies clearly explained, you work, you pay IRPF; you buy a house and you pay Transmissions and Heritage, and if you sell it, IRPF and Plusvalía. You spend your money, you pay VAT; you donate your money, you pay Donation Tax; you save, you pay Heritage, and if you die, you pay Succession Tax. That's our life, all day paying. Today they have the opportunity to tell all Basques that their Government is going to stop profiting from their misfortune. In this matter, moreover, it is urgent to put an end to the fiscal inequalities that all Spaniards suffer as a result of the State of Autonomy, to implement a fixed tax system that does not unequally affect citizens, depending on the province in which they reside. Basque offshore farms deflated the IRPF rate by 1.5% in 2022, applying the work retention table from January to... since January this year, a deflated scale of 1.5%. However, the Bank of Spain's estimates point to an average inflation of 7,5 %. Inflation or taxation of the poor has automatic consequences on the IRPF, increasing the tax effort of taxpayers by applying the highest rates to the same real income, with an inflation of 10% at the end of March. From Vox we consider it urgent to correct the IRPF in order to maintain the progression of the invariable tax. Vox has his feet on the ground and is with the real problems of all Basques who can no longer bear so many charges of taxes, quotas and prices of electrical supplies, with an inflation that exceeds all the annual forecasts and empties them the cart of purchase, which is the truly regrettable thing. And do you guys ever think about going down from the cloud? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u36	Good afternoon, Mr. lehendakari, counselors, counselors, good afternoon to all and everyone. I will start, because I often like to refer to Mr Gordillo for certain things, above all to oppose his positions, and in this case, to a specific issue which he has mentioned and which serves me to start the speech. It is true that we have felt a series of hard blows in the economic framework in recent years, and what those blows have shown has been that their solutions do not go through the formulas that you propose. Some of them can be seen in their resolutions raised today in the monograph. On the one hand, the dismantling of the public connected to the logic of austerity. On the other hand, to reduce everything that has to do with the public protection system that involves austerity. They have under no circumstances raised when they were ruling or with an absolute majority of structural reforms that they are now calling for. On the other hand, they have not in any way proposed improvements to the state's productive fabric, nor to the productive fabric in our country, in this case in Euskadi. But I am going to use with respect to the productive tissue that you alluded to the need to reflocate our country's productive tissue, which refers to the Next funds. I agree that little has been said about this issue today, and it is frankly important. We do believe that the Next funds should under no circumstances serve to reflect GDP, to improve data on Gross Domestic Product, but we believe that they should be... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... no case should be used to reflect GDP, to improve data on Gross Domestic Product, but we believe that they should be used as leverage and traction for certain projects that indirectly improve our productive fabric. And it is true that today we are not yet seeing that this purpose is being carried out even within the State framework, even being part of the Government of Spain. And we want to make this clear because in other contexts we have said so. And so, we do believe that it is necessary to do or try to push from this House that the funds for recovery and also for transformation and resilience should arrive as soon as possible; that is, those last two terms of the acronym should also be implemented as soon as possible, because if not the future crises will hit us in a tougher way. Then you spoke about the question of deflating taxes, and to our parliamentary group what you always think is the same excuse from your parliamentary group, which is to use the political crisis situation to try to bring forward what is an ideological political postulate, and to lower taxes in general, in any term and without conditions. And they take advantage of this social emergency situation to bring downs due to deflation. That it is true that discursively it may seem, or rhetorically, it may seem very logical, but Mr. Gordillo, you do not do the same when you are well given. Then you do not propose reforms upwards to have greater resources and yours is to strengthen the public and also the productive fabric. And we would like you to do that exercise or, in your case, when you have absolute majorities that apply the story and lower taxes. Which they don't do. Also with regard to the remnant, to say that the use of the remnant is important, and that the availability of such a high amount of remnant by the Basque Government seems worrying to us, and especially when it is linked to positive management over the past few years, which is nothing more than the consequence of the exercise of austerity. What happens is that in his speech we see a certain contradiction, and that is that they suggest that the remnant should be in the citizens' pocket, but then in turn they say that the remnant is used for direct aid lines to the most vulnerable and to the productive fabric. Tell me what we are left in, if we have to stay in the citizens' pocket, in this case surely Mr Galán and so many others in the pocket, or in its default it has to be used for direct aid lines. On the other hand, with regard to Mrs Martínez, a simple contribution, although she is no longer there, but a simple contribution, I do not know how to deal with the financing of that amount of development and shock plans that they put forward from your parliamentary group, simply and simply abolishing those chiringuitos that never complete exactly. They have referred to the membership quotas of trade unions, which, through the quota of trade unionists, or in their case of those who are members, is 84%, while their parliamentary group is 90% part of the public sector, so it would be appropriate to apply a certain degree of coherence and to stop receiving the public money they receive from the institutions where they are, or, where appropriate, to leave certain autonomous governments of which they have now become part, even if they do not consider that they should exist. We and we, our parliamentary group, have exercised responsibility in a complex situation to try to reach agreements. It is true that, as I raised in the morning in my initial speech, the structural issue that has motivated the crisis that we are currently suffering from the energy crisis, understand me, is given by an energy dependency of decades ago and by a few bets from the Basque Government that we do not share. Today we wanted to do the exercise of trying to orient the groups that support the Government towards different positions. We know that with regard to concrete measures to alter this structural logic, because we were hardly going to reach agreements, but what we have tried to do is to have it recognized by the group or groups that support the Government, what is the nature of the problem and the nature of the problem is structural and in this case due to the lack of sovereignty and democratization in access to energy. And we believe that with a series of resolutions that we have agreed, it has been achieved. We have at least managed to have the Basque Government make clear in resolutions linked to requests for action to the Basque Government that it assumes that the problem of origin and structure has to do with the energy dependence that we suffer. On the other hand, in those resolutions we have raised certain issues or guidelines that need to be addressed beyond assuming what the nature of the problem is. On the one hand, the necessary decarbonisation with special attention to transport, something which the Basque Government had already taken on, but the implementation of measures in this direction as soon as possible. On the other hand, the commitment and momentum of renewable energies through energy cooperatives and self-consumption with the progressive electrification of the housing stock, and reduce to the extent that this applies vulnerability and thus avoid situations of energy poverty. It is true that there are no questions about concrete measures, but we do believe that what it does is to direct the Basque Government towards what we believe to be the problem and nature of this crisis. On the other hand, we have come up with an agreement on an income pact, and here I want to make a parenthesis, an income pact which does not, of course, contribute to the loss in this process of social dialogue of the working class and the popular classes, but rather, in the exercise of that social dialogue, of the part of the employer in this case which is responsible and is therefore not on the shoulders of the workers the burden of assuming this increase in inflation. We have also reached agreement on the extension of resources for the financing and liquidity of the Basque business fabric. And on the other hand, and we think it's very important as far as refugees are concerned... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... the financing and liquidity of the Basque business fabric. And on the other hand, and we believe that it is very important, as far as Ukrainian and Ukrainian refugees are concerned, we have proposed to strengthen certain programmes, to deploy certain specialized resources to specific sectors which we believed to be important to protect through the public era, through the administration and exercise of the Government. But it is true that things have also been left out; there have been many things left out that this morning I have already reflected that for our parliamentary group they were fundamental and important. But, well, in any case, I say, taking into account the situation we are living in, and also taking into account the absolute majority of what is available to the groups supporting the Government, as happened in the budgetary agreement - something which we were accused of - in the end, by exercising pragmatism and, I insist, responsibility, and knowing what the numbers and arithmetic of this Parliament are, we have considered it important to transmit or try to reach a series of impulses to the Government that involve greater support than that of the groups supporting the Government. But there have been structural elements left out. On the one hand, tax reform. We felt that there was a need to address planning and reflection on what had to do with tax reform. This is something that we have already discussed and raised on the table on countless occasions, and I am not going to have much more to do with it now, because we are running out of time because it does not seem reasonable to me either, and I am therefore going to say that we believe that tax reform is important and we hope that we will have a chance to talk about it someday. We do not think there has been a pronouncement on not accompanying our energy transition with oligopoly, which we have also raised on more than one occasion and this morning in our speech. We believe that there has been no commitment to make use of part of that remnant available, albeit with responsibility. But in any case, we will have an opportunity to discuss this in the future. And we also believe that it is important that this energy transition be linked to planning, planning and managing it. That is to say, that it is not given with flexibility in the entry of private capital, without any form of conditionality and without exclusion zones, for example, for protection zones, is worth redundancy. But since this has also been an element which has already been quite well developed in different debates, I am not going to insist on it. We believed that they were fundamental elements and that they should have been able to reach an agreement today in the monograph, but in any case it has not been possible, we will continue to insist on this on future occasions. In conclusion, we are going to take a favourable position on certain initiatives that the People-Citizens Group has put forward, particularly as regards precisely the control of this remnant. They have mentioned a request that our parliamentary group had made since the previous legislature on many occasions, which is that of the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. They have also referred to certain issues that are in some way linked to a bill that our parliamentary group has registered and which has to do with a budgetary office for monitoring and advising in the development of budget implementation throughout the year, and we believe that they are interesting, they offer transparency in the implementation of the budget. And, in that sense, we will certainly vote in favour. With regard to other issues which, as I said, affect the first part of my speech and which confront our economic model, of course, we are not going to position ourselves favourably, but it is not surprising either. With regard to EH Bildu's initiatives, we share a very important majority of them. We believe that many of them affect precisely those structural elements which could not be accepted within the framework of the agreement, but in any case we will make that common pronouncement on them. Let us hope that it will be reciprocal and that in those structural initiatives and resolutions that have not been taken by the parliamentary groups that support the Government, the same will be true. And with regard to the groups that support the Government, to say that, obviously, with regard to the transactions, as they are transactions, and we hope that they will serve as an impetus for the Government to implement these policies that we believe are fundamental. And, on the other hand, those that have not been agreed, in some cases our positioning will be in favor, and in others not, according to our criterion and our ideological perspective. Nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u37	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours. Oh, I'm sorry! Basque Socialists, Mr Price.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u38	President, ladies and gentlemen. The resolutions that we are jointly presenting by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have, of course, the orientation of the reason that has brought us to this full monograph, which is to take urgent action to protect the economy and people from the consequences of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. They are therefore of an exceptional, transitional nature, with a duration which must be reviewed and adapted to the circumstances, with the necessary flexibility for the necessary changes, and also with the limitation of public resources which are finite and which must be administered with the necessary prudence. The 44 resolutions that we have tabled by both groups are headed by the strongest condemnation of the invasion of Ukraine, to then address aspects of humanitarian aid to displaced persons and refugees - the vast majority of women and children - to whom we want to provide the best means of reception. All this within the framework of better coordination between different institutions. The resolutions address the economic problems that we have been carrying for two years, as a result of the pandemic's interference with the labour and social productive system that the policy of economic looting of energy companies and war has accentuated and aggravated. We have resolutions on the accompaniment... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ...economic looting of energy companies and the war has accentuated and aggravated. We have resolutions on the follow-up to the private initiative for the centralised purchase of energy, on the promotion and materialization of the parties and the implementation of European funds as quickly as possible; resolutions on policies that increase the competitiveness of companies, or to encourage energy saving and efficiency measures in households and companies. We have measures in place to maintain employment and support the most vulnerable people and families, or to strengthen private public collaboration, to drive a pooled purchasing centre of raw materials. We have also proposed aid to businesses, with particular attention to the agricultural, livestock and fishing sectors, as well as to those directly affected by the restrictive measures taken to terminate economic and trade relations with Russia. We have resolutions for the Department of Labour and Employment to continue to apply interpretative criteria on ERW; to be requested, to facilitate the viability of enterprises and the maintenance of employment; to continue to respond to all requests from Income Guarantee Income and the minimum living income that may arise as a result of the deterioration in employment. Also to maintain permanent contact with the social partners, which avoid the destruction of employment and ensure the viability of businesses. We urge Lanbide to offer, through collaboration with humanitarian organizations, all the services available to refugees from Ukraine, in order to enable them, during their stay in Euskadi, to carry out jobs and access to useful training courses - whether they return to their country or stay here - or to include in the Aukera Berria programme persons who may lose their jobs. There are resolutions to create a line of aid for social economy enterprises that have been directly affected by the war in Ukraine, and by the economic sanctions imposed on Russia. Either for having facilities and people employed in both countries, or for having compromised orders that cannot be materialized. We also have to increase the budget allocation for social entrepreneurship, in order to provide assistance to working partners and cooperative partners, who, as a result of what we are talking about, will have to face capital increases and possible compensation for loss or increase of circulation, or new investments. There is a resolution on a line of aid for associations and business groups in the social economy, in order to enable them to study, and where appropriate to do so, the establishment of energy consumption cooperatives which rely on renewable energy sources, and to continue to encourage and develop these energy communities. We have resolutions to transfer to the social dialogue table the proposal to maintain the complements to the persons hosted in the ERTEs with revenues of less than 20,000 euros; or to the institutions and administrations and entities with competence in the public transport of passengers, to which, in coordination between them, the maintenance of the prices of the rates of the transport network, of public transport, is agreed, with the aim that the users do not face directly the increase of the costs of the energy and the high rate of inflation derived from them. We have also proposed a programme to be made available to third-sector entities that care for Ukrainian refugees, the necessary housing, as required, by these organisations; or to strengthen the youth rental aid programmes, so that this sensitive sector of the population can cope with the economic and social consequences that are occurring as a result of the energy crisis and everything else. We have resolutions to establish a programme of economic attention, to minimize the current impact of the energy crisis in the Public Housing Park for rent managed by the Basque Government, and to attend to those tenants with difficulties in meeting their rental obligations. We have an approach that takes action... to take urgent measures within the framework of the National Plan, which provides that the competent authorities in the field of consumption, may sanction unfair commercial practices with consumers or users, related to the application of the discount in the supply of fuels or fuels. We also urge that, following the rise in consumer prices and the widespread price increases that are being transferred to food and other basic necessities, as well as the increase in the energy cost of Basque households - all of which is implying a reduction in the economic capacity of consumers and directly - a certain halt to consumption and commercial activity. That the increase in the price of supplies resulting from difficulties in logistical distribution, as well as the increase in the costs of fixed costs incurred by the Basque commercial sector, should be allowed a budget line intended to support sub-sectors of retail trade. Finally, we have proposals for the implementation of an institutional programme of consumer incentives in local trade, which will help both the spending capacity of families and the improvement of the competitiveness of local trade in the face of the globalisation of the sector. Or, a resolution to maintain and promote the promotional actions of both Euskadi as a tourist destination – safe, sustainable and competitive – as well as of the uniqueness and competitiveness of Basque local trade. I have cited some of the resolutions, not all of them. My partner Alaitz Zabala, I imagine he would also refer to some others. And I want to end with some more considerations in relation to what we have dealt with today. Of course, we have an interest in accepting and trading resolutions with other groups proposing complementary measures for this plan to counter the negative effects of the war. And, of course, we do not agree with proposals that take the opportunity to bring about debates that have been settled at other times in the political activity of this Parliament, or to propose measures that have already been taken and are working. There are proposals to develop the political programmes for each training, and that is not bad. But these have their way in the mainstream. Or there are proposals to modify public policies with the outstanding objectives of each, whose claim is lost in the old minutes... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] General. Or there are proposals to modify public policies with the outstanding objectives of each one, whose claim is lost in the old minutes of this Parliament, and which repeatedly come back when there is a full monograph like this or other. We will not agree to propose impossible spending policies because of their size and lack of proportionality with the capacity and weight of the public sector. Or we will not agree with proposals to attempt measures of political control which, being legitimate, are neither of this opportune moment, but of permanent opportunism. Today's debate is not unlimited. He's bound to a circumstance. The aim is to promote measures complementary to those laid down by the European Union and the Government of Spain in relation, of course, to the war in Ukraine. That's how the lehendakari introduced them. And so they are in our resolutions. And also in other groups. And those who have this orientation, of course, will vote in favour of or deal with them. Today's debate was certainly impulse, it was impulse to the Government, it was concepts, but the intervention of the lehendakari has allowed the plenary to have another feature. Because, indeed, lehendakari has announced complementary measures, it has announced a social rescue fund, an economic rescue fund, aid to vulnerable people, businesses, micro-enterprises, companies in the first sector, aid to the commercial sector or financial and liquidity aid. Measures which, obviously, as has been raised this morning, can be strengthened when needed. And certainly this is a full that, as I said, came from impulse, came from concepts, came from shaping ideas, but it ends up being a full productive because there are already proposals on the table that are going to be concrete. And I believe that the best news that can be given to Basque citizens and, of course, to all the people to whom we want to transfer their solidarity, who are basically the people we welcome, the best thing we can tell them is that this plenary, in addition to dealing with ideas and concepts, puts measures on the table, puts budget, and, therefore, it is a full productive one, which is not usually the common thing in many of the plenarys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u39	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. The word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, to the good afternoon. My first words, I would offer them to the people and to the peoples in the Ukraine. Our sympathies for anyone who has lost a relative, friend, neighbor, or acquaintance in this anarchy. Our solidarity and entire support to the Ukracinians and villages. We accuse and condemn the situation which is uncomprehending and absolutely unjust, yesterday, and always to-day. And when I say this, my second words for Mr. Casanova. I don't know how to get your... here is the position you have shown. I don't know how to use it. But I thought you had a great respect for Mr. Urkullu, President of all. The President who is all of us. You showed the chairman of the Basques an enormous respect here today, Mr. Casanova. And I won't give this a second to you ataque de celoss you've been here. I'm gonna deal with it today, I think it's worth it. On February 24th our hearts sank, our weapons, tanks walked along the streets of the Ukraine. Ukrainian had begun to walk through houses or buildings into bunkers. For the first few days thousands of people left their homes, cities, and cities, and began to depart into other countries or countries. Everyone was looking for the same thing: Protection. Our country has always been solid, and this time. We had to go abroad, too. Some of them were exiled for political reasons. Others were forced to go abroad to get a job. And as we were taken in other countries, today we are collecting and helping the Ukraine, spreading our arms and our houses. We citizens of Basques are daily offering this support and support by various actions: clothes, material collection, money by Government External Association... "To the Fellowships, offering our homes to the refugees, to the borders of the Ukraine by our vehicles, and bringing our people to us by family. We're being able to respond quickly and with responsibility to situations of emergency and need. That's our seal, our reasoning and responsibility to each other. And that's not just a national trait, but also our organizations. From the first moment, they've been at work, from the first moment, helping people who have had to live this unfortunate situation. In the coordinated manner, with all the resources available to them and using them. But it's true we don't know when this war will end. Maybe Putin will know. But it looks like it could take a long time. And he suffers the consequences... we are beginning to suffer the effects of it, as well as the rest of the countries, and our people, corporations, and institutions. He's been working through a lot of minutes. Even this morning, the president has reminded us of protecting and helping the refugees of the work we've done. To our society, and above all to the most vulnerable of all; to proclaim or strengthen those actions which are beyond the reach of the Spanish state, so that our families should not suffer the consequences of the punishment or war which was inflicted on Russia, preserving their relations and conversations with the representatives of different social and economic agents, in order to know every moment of their condition. But we won't deny it. Everything can be improved, and still more uncertain when we are in a state of uncertainty. Because of all this, we've submitted 44 resolutions in the monographic today. The president's words... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... When we are. That's why he's presented 44 resolutions in the monographic today. Remembering the President's words, I'd like to define our resolutions: in this state of uncertainty, they are propositions of actions to offer confidence to the people. In this situation of uncertainty, what we need are actions, concrete proposals, real proposals and tailored to the needs we are looking at. We must send a message of trust to the citizens: we must tell them that they are our top priority, that our policies are directed at them and, in particular, at those who are experiencing the worst, that we will not leave them alone and that we will make every effort to alleviate the burdens that this war has brought us. That is why, because people have been, are and will always be at the centre of our political action, 43% of our resolutions are directed at people, those here and those who live between us and ourselves because of the circumstances. For people to move forward, we need a strong economy, a competitive, solid, modern business fabric, and decent and quality jobs. That is where the other great block of our proposals is inserted, the one aimed at the companies of this country, and, to close, the proposals that make country. We are talking as a whole about two types of measures to respond to the current and medium- and long-term situations or strategic actions. I will begin with actions aimed at the people, those who flee their country seeking a dignified welcome between us and us, and for the most vulnerable. Measures for Ukrainian refugees in Euskadi: such as strengthening programmes and services for their reception and integration, with proposals to prevent trafficking in women and minors; developing and updating the Urgent Contingency Plan; establishing or strengthening training programmes, so that they can continue their university studies among others; enhancing research activities, so that Ukrainian research staff and, in particular, Ukrainian researchers or technologists who arrive with their children in Euskadi; strengthening mechanisms for providing educational coverage, and specific care for minors and young people with special attention to their emotional well-being; facilitating their entry into the labour market, through Lanbide and humanitarian organizations, and ensuring their housing. We also ask the Spanish Government to review the State reception system, with the aim of respecting the family and personal ties of Ukrainians arriving in Euskadi. To the pain they already feel for the horrors of this war, we cannot add any more. We have to work to keep the family units together. The arrival of the Ukraine was not the only sign of armed conflict in Eucharin. Our families and people have been damaged, especially because of the amount of energy and fuel, and the effects of it, as well as the increase and influence of inflation? ) Elevation of prices. We have proposed eight resolutions of reducing the damages which this temporary and extraordinary state has produced to our people. We know it's a strong protection system, and it's been clear all these years that it's effective, but everything can be improved or strengthened, as we always say. By what means, we ask the Government to strengthen the programmes for social support and reduction of energy which are now in use. The President has advanced to us that he intends to establish a fund for the rescue of society. We look upon it as very positive, or that it may maintain the leadership of the co-ordinates to give an answer and a general answer to the agency of the rest of the Basque organizations and assistance. Egungo ekonomiaren egoeraren ondorioz, langabezian gelditu direen personsonak aukera berri program part hartu ahal izaisata proposatzen dugu. We propose that, through the Social Dialogue Bureau, the proposal to maintain the complements of ERTs be moved. Our young people are also a sensitive sector to economic changes and we therefore ask the Basque Government to strengthen the rental aid programmes for this group. Aid that we want to extend also to people who are having difficulty paying rents for protective housing. We put on the table a programme of economic attention to minimize the impact of the energy crisis. We all believe and bet on the change in the mobility model, and we consider it important and essential to have a public transport of closeness and quality, with affordable prices. It is clear that the increase in energy and fuel prices could affect ticket rates, txartel charges, but, in order for that not to happen, we advocate the maintenance of current rates, without costing users. 2022 large and powerful economic growth was expected for 2022, and this is how it is shown by different economic indicators. But this invasion has greatly upset the situation, and it has traded its predictions. It's had some effect on the economy and even on ours. It is true that economic indexes indicate that we will grow in front of this situation, that growth will be slower, and so will the government predict. What does that mean? Well, the companies in our country suffer the consequences of war and continue to suffer short-term suffering. Nevertheless, we cannot deny that this state has revealed some of the deficiencies we have. Among them our dependence on foreign lands in the supply of fuel and energy sources. Our industry is a powerful consumer of energy, which has caused the increase of prices for the past few months to strike up corporations directly, and more than one to stop its production in the face of the cost. By adding the fuel prices and the transport strike to this, our production has been stressed and tensed. That's why we propose to rob 11 to help the second sector and encourage our economy. I have already said, and that the Government, especially the development and development department of economics, from the beginning of the invasion, has continued an interview with different sectors, which enables us to know what their situation is all at once. You don't know at this moment that our flow or corporations need a settlement. But perhaps there may be a moment, a moment, especially when the war lasts, and there must be plenty of society... [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] ...enpres are required to be co-operative. But perhaps a moment may come here, that moment, especially when the war lasts, and the corporations need society. For this reason, we ask the Government to provide for the means necessary to supply the finances and settlements of corporations. We had to discuss the points yesterday, we quit today, and, as I said, we've brought up the resolution. Because we keep our word. Also, we ask him to keep conversations with social agents in order to study the present situation, to know the situation of companies and sectors, and to help him take the steps to maintain jobs and corporations. We consider it important, within the European Union's temporary State aid framework, that a specific programme of aid be put in place for companies directly affected by the invasion of Ukraine by the restrictive measures adopted, just as we call for the continued application of the interpretative criteria on ERTs in this situation. This will facilitate business viability and job maintenance. This widespread rise in prices also affects the businesses of our municipalities, which, on the one hand, see their costs rise, and, on the other, perceive the fear of consuming again. We therefore call on the Government to provide a budget line to support the sector and to take action to encourage consumption. Let us not forget the needs that the social economy, Made in Euskadi, can currently have, which is an important part of our productive fabric, and we consider it essential to support them through new lines of aid. And lastly, as a people, we have proposed the measures of resisting the hinges which this invasion has revealed to us. The challenges to resist at once, which will lead us to a better and highly developed country. We've proposed five resolutions for this purpose. We need to be able to treat, preserve, and protect the refugees which come in our own country in an integrated manner, to have a hand in migration themes. This is why we demand that the State should be filled with a state, as soon as possible, and that the Spanish State should not be able to shake hands with it. Let the government continue to follow the status every moment. It is extremely important to know in what state our society and economy is to be found. And where we're going to preview and advance. And for that, we ask the government to remain close to economic and social agents. So he'll be able to take the necessary measures quickly. To rate economics, to maintain employment, to help people and the most vulnerable families. And of course, we think that the measures imposed should be respected and preserved. For example, we have to control that the value of fuel costs is 0.2 euros also in a loyal manner. We believe that with such propositions as have hitherto been proposed, we may give an immediate answer to the consequences which war will leave or leave us. And I'd like to emphasize it. That was the goal of the monographic today. Or that's how the EH Collect Group told us. We've been responsibilities of the eubertists, even this time. And most of our proposals have been restrained by this, without diverting the dispute. But we must confess, even with regard to the future, that we have gross challenges, which we do not deny. That's why we've proposed eight more resolutions, half-term and long. Perhaps the problem revealed is our dependence on energy and gas. That's why, in order to solve a solution, we propose five thorough resolutions. Lehenengoa, encouraging energy saving and efficiency measures in households and enterprises by promoting renewable energy, and to this end, different possibilities need to be investigated. Two, commit ourselves to sustainable development goals and work towards a new energy model, disengaging from fossil fuels, betting on the circular economy and climate change strategy. Three, through accompaniment to the private sector, we must promote a centralized purchase of energy and raw materials. Four, the Spanish Government must materialize the PERTE in order to carry out strategic projects related to sustainable mobility and energy transformation. And five, the energy communities maintain a clear commitment to renewable energy. That is why we are asking the Basque Government to create a line of aid for associations and business groups in the social economy. We have an important short-term challenge that I believe we share with all groups. We must accelerate the energy transition and make and materialize a clear commitment to the environment and the care of the planet. These are, in short, our motions for resolutions. I think that many of the points that we have been able to hear from the groups throughout the day coincide. We have always said that unity will be the best answer. Today we have the opportunity to demonstrate that, since collaboration, we are going to accompany this Government in the implementation of all the necessary measures to get out of this difficult situation and meet the challenges of the future. We have strong institutions led by commitment to people. We have resources available to alleviate the situation of those who are experiencing the worst. We want to redouble our efforts and we want to leave a country prepared to deal with other possible crises. We have tabled immediate implementation measures, urgent measures and also transformative measures in this Parliament. Society must know that we are here, in institutions to help them, to respond to their problems. We must offer confidence, and that is achieved from collaboration and agreement. Agreement that from this group has been offered to most of the groups in this House, including EH Bildu. EH collect knows very well, and Mr. Casanova, better than any of you, has always had a hand open for bargains at the first moment when this monographic is offered. And that's how we worked, and you know it. And so has the government been with you before the resolutions were introduced. And you're here before you go. Our hand remains open, and we shall be with you on our way to the field. If you don't want to, you'll have to explain why.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing on the day's answers, representing EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... Ma'am. Passing on the day's answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u42	Good afternoon again. Well, for the first time, and because of what I have heard, I mean to point out that there is some doubt left, my full respect for the President's image, and also with all due respect to the person of Therhu the Urkullu. But even my entire attachment to the right of political criticism. Last dugu, askotan gauzak gehiegi errepikatzearekin ematen du esamoldeak bihurtzen say it, phrase, esaldi eginak, edo common places gastelez esaten den moduan. But we believe in Euskal Herria Bildu that we are really at a delicate moment, at a delicate moment as a society and as a planet. We are at a time when different phenomena are confluing towards a cycle change, towards an era change. And they are threatening fundamental issues, starting with the sustainability of life itself, up to the cohesion of societies, democratic models, and a multitude of issues, values, principles and institutions on which we base our coexistence. In this context, which was already a delicate context, there is this war, this invasion of Ukraine by Russia, which triggers a series of effects that aggravate the situations we have described earlier. Therefore, we are in the situation that we consider serious, and how we define the situation as serious, we understand that courageous and exceptional things must be done. That the first strength of the opposition and the ruling parties come to agreements, I think it is an act of courage, which is something in principle exceptional, because it is normal that they defend different models. But we believe that the situation is of such a nature, that it is one of those moments in which we are placed to make that effort. We think that's not what happened. We've been giving you 40 years of interviews and asking for potential commitments and what we've found hasn't been on the side of the government. I repeat, the right to make politics is that the government has that form of policy, that policy, from solitude, and self-consciousness, you have a right to it. But we think the time is to do and try other things. And when we have criticized the way in which lehendakari intervened in this plenary, not the fact that he intervened, which seems to us absolutely logical and normal. The way and the fact that we have presented the plan here is not because of an attack of jealousy, but because it has completely limited the possibility and the framework that we political groups have to reach agreements. But not only today, but in the negotiation process to which Mrs Zabala referred. Because what has actually happened here is the presentation of a plan, and the search for accessions to that plan. There has been no effort from you to offer me, you how you would do it, you where you would contribute. The plan was made, and then it was sought out what proposals from the other groups might have a fit. That's also legitimate, if I don't deny legitimacy. I deny that that kind of way of doing politics is what requires a transcendental moment like this. Therefore, I say again, we, despite the fact that we believe that this whole process has been a major deplantation and a mistake in conceiving the governance model of this country - both on this and on any other issue - will once again be ready to speak and agree. But, of course, we are not asked for blank cheques or accessions to projects that are already made and closed. With that, Euskal Herria Bildu will not move forward. No, closed projects, Mr Urkullu, projects in which there has been no effort and I reiterate that we have asked you on numerous occasions to sit down and talk, to sit down and to appreciate things. Here we have been debated, here we have been pushed back by the request to make a plan, here we have been pushed back by the request to make a commission. Out of here, they've only had the formal meeting of the round of matches. And so, what I am saying is that there has been no clear interest in reaching agreements. And here a closed plan has been presented, and they have said: with what you like, for we can come to an agreement; and with what you do not like, Hor Konpon Marianton. Well, if that's our way of doing things, it is. But then do not be afraid or afraid that others will not like us and that others will be critical with that way of doing things, because with EH Bildu there is no agreement. You know perfectly well how to reach agreements with Euskal Herria Bildu, although here you can speak crudely, to which here you can say things, on both sides, that you do not like to listen to the other side, when you throw people away, and when you are willing to give in, when you are willing to give in, you have reached important agreements such as education agreements or agreements such as the budget. And you can reach other agreements, but you respect each other, respecting the forms, the procedures, and understanding that an agreement is... you have to go with a predisposition to give in. Little or much, and perhaps an absolute majority government less than an opposition party, but with a predisposition to yield. And you have come here today to ask for membership. And my time is over, but I don't want to finish it without giving Poseidon a brief answer. We, too, think of all your resolutions, I dare say we may have philosophical agreement. We believe that your proposals are favorable to social justice and ecological transition in general. Defence of Publicity, etc., etc., etc. This philosophical coincidence is almost complete, but we must admit that, in the circumstances of certain proposals, the frame is consistent, because of political shades and other technical matters, we can't agree with a few proposals. But we believe that our intention was to leave most of them, and to abstain from them. And only at one point, one against the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Alderdi Popularra-Citizens, Gordillo, Bertatik.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u44	I simply take the floor to thank all groups again for the debate, the agreements that have been reached, including the discrepancies. Mr Soto, I would love to take the floor for a long time to continue the debate with him, but I think it is already late and it is all said by our group. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mystto-Vox shouldn't speak. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u46	Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Gordillo, I'll start with you again. I'm not going to gnaw, considering you didn't want to do it. And besides, since I don't have much time to go on... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] ...a lot. Mr. Gordillo, I'll start with you again. I'm not going to gnaw, considering you didn't want to do it. And, moreover, as I do not have much time to continue insisting on what I said before and I do not think it is a question of repeating it, we will have an opportunity to discuss economic models and other issues on more occasions, well, leave it here. But let us bear in mind once again that the solutions that you propose for problems as complex as this are not the right ones, and that the facts attest to this. It is true that we share with regard to all the parliamentary groups represented here today that we are experiencing a turning point that accumulates many crises. It is true that although the Councillor of Finance and Economy would say that we are experiencing a slowdown in the economy and not so much an economic crisis, that I understand the reasons why he says this, in theoretical terms, but it is true that there is data and there is also an emotionality and a situation of uncertainty, of accumulation of precariousness and also of crises of both climate and social model, and even political, that puts at risk at this moment the continuity as we conceived the system. And that, therefore, we do believe that we need structural changes when we come to this point of inflection. Because what we are facing, taking into account the need for these structural changes, is that if we do not tackle them, besides not being compatible at the moment with the model with the life system, besides that, we are facing the anti-policy, here also represented, and they insist on making use of and adding to these successive crises in order to encourage those who are worst going on to vote for them. I therefore believe that, on the responsibility of all of us, we should try to reach agreements as much as possible, precisely so that consensus can close the door to certain political formations reaching governments. And this monograph, like other political moments that will come, are perfect occasions to prove that this exercise of responsibility is necessary to complete it. And, therefore, our predisposition, beyond the fact that there are certain elements that are consubstantial to our ideology and our space and that do not share the groups that support the Government or others represented here, we do believe that there are other places that we can share and that we believe that an effort must be made to reach global agreements. And our predisposition, I insist, to it. As far as the agreements we have reached are concerned, we are pleased that this has been the case. We believe that we have established that the nature of the problem has to do with an energy dependency that has not been addressed in previous decades. And we also believe that certain measures with regard to those who are going to experience the worst will also believe that it has been interesting to agree and that they will encourage the Government to take certain measures that are important to complete. And with regard to EH Bildu, to be completed, for to insist on the line I have maintained before. Indeed, there are certain questions that (are?) in the most structural framework of our proposal, which is more philosophical if we are to say so, which I believe we share, and which, therefore, the common position in certain resolutions will be materialised in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialist, Prinett mustn't speak. And, ma'am, the Eubertians are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening again. I don't know, it's the feeling I have left this monographicographic that EH Collect wanted to use it for drawing. You said yourself, Mr. Casanova: para confrontar models, models distintos de país. Did you want to use the monographics for that, and did you use the Ukraine as an excuse? We'll have a chance to work with the Ukraine or work for the Ukraine or to improve the protective system, but I'd like to suggest one. That's right, he works discreetly, and maybe you don't like a marchetin because he doesn't like it? But you can activate it with la Comisón de Seguiminiento de Presupustos, for instance, we could work there with discretion. We could come to terms, you and the rest of us. You said we stayed alone. That's not true. We didn't stay in isolation, we've proposed a few proposals, 44, and we've made nine of them with the PP-Ciudados, and nine more, together with the Podemos-Nodemos-Nozer. And I'd like to put these in value to Mr. Soto and Mr. Gordillo. And who's left alone? Vox and EHG Collect. We didn't make a deal with you. No, we didn't. Well, we've tried it, and we've tried it, and we've been sitting around a table, but apparently you don't like it or you don't like it so much. Maybe more, that's where he's going, isn't it? Well, and you're asking the government for an agreement, and the agreements offer. And yet a group of legislative members must agree and remember. And, finally, my last words to the president and to all the chief physician. We'll keep working, too. We owe it to our people and to our peoples, and we were chosen for it. That's what we're here for, and that's what we're going to do. You're going to help us, so we won't leave anyone behind. In this state of uncertainty, to offer confidence in actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. We interrupt the entire meeting for ten minutes... Well, see you around six. We're playing the bell for the vote, though. The meeting stopped at five-thirty-two in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u50	Okay. After the discussion, we'll have the vote. We'll vote with our hand raised. A mano alada. So get up straight. We've made teams, we've made teams in every vote. I'll go and tell each team, say it as slowly as I can. If anybody finds out I said wrong or, raise your hand and we'll correct it or get out. We're all here, aren't we? Yeah? If you see a problem, tell me that you've been in bad shape, or taken ill. Okay. Well, first, let's start with the EH Collect Group resolutions. We've made two teams here. On the one hand, 1, 2, 3, 7, 9, 19, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 37, 39, and 40 resolutions. Okay. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 47; abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u51	After that, we'll vote for the other resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents, 47; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u52	Ready. PP-Ciudados. First, we'll vote for the media. Here are three half-way groups. In the first group, the first solution, the first of the Basque Ascilists, the second resolution with the Socilists, the 17 eubertarians with Socilists, the 20 solution, the 7 Euroberters with Socialists... Well, I'll say it again. Okay? The middle-class, the first of PP's patriots, the first of the Socialists, the first of the Socialists, the 15th of PP, the Eunciators of Socilists, the 20th of PP, the Eupricians of Socilists, the 7th of Socilists, the 21s, the Eucoberters with the 8th of the Sociists, and the 18P, 32 Podemos, and the 19ths with the Socialists. Do I have to get that out? Okay. Take out this three. [[Berber]] Excuse me? [[Berber]] 21, too? [[Berber]] Okay, okay. I'll get them both out. Okay. Well, it doesn't matter. Three teams, three together: One, 15, 20 transactions made with resolutions. Okay, then, we vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 27; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u53	So they're accepted. We'll vote for those two we've brought out: With 21, 8, 1 9th, 1 0, 32 and 19. Yeah? Okay. We can vote. [[Berber]] Sorry? Get the microphone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u54	That our middle-class must be out of that set.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u55	Is he coming out?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u56	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u57	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u58	We'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u59	He took two. He took two out, and I joined them. 21, 8, and 18, 32 and 19? Okay. We vote again. Half-way by 21, 8th. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 6,6; Abstations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u60	So let's take the half-directional correction. The middle-class 18, 32 and 19 solutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 53; the opponents are 0; abstations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u61	So it's accepted. Next, a group, two solutions with the solution of the Sociists of the Socialists, the 26th solution of the 13 Eunciators with the Socialists, and the 28 Euroberts with the Socialists. Is that possible? Bai? Bale. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u62	So these media resolutions have been accepted. Last half-way resolution made with 1014. Yes?... [[End of tape 61]] [[Start of tape 62]] Yeah? We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 21; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u63	Now, we vote for the third resolution. We're going with PP. Third PP. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; abstentions are 0, 0; white are 0; 0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u64	So, unanimously, resolution 3. After that, we'll vote for the Solicitor Party 29th. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters of 47; the opponents of the enemy, 27; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u65	Well, it's agreed on the 29th resolution. We're following a group with PP: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 27. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 67; Absences, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u66	So, they didn't accept the verdict. Resolution. Then another group: 11, 16, 17, 19, 27. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 67; Absences, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u67	So it's not accepted. Next group: 24, 25 solutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 34; the opponents are 40; abstations, 0; white; 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u68	So they didn't accept it. We'll vote for the 23rd resolution. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 28; the opponents, 46; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u69	So it's not accepted. We're going to vote for the 30th resolution. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 7; the contrary, 61; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u70	So it's not accepted. Now we'll start together with the Podemos-Nozzer team resolutions. First we have two mediums: 7. 12, 15, and 15 together, the resolutions of Podemos, which were made by the Eupricians, and by the 15th of Socilists; and the second, that of the Socilists 22, 23 Eucobertes, and Socilists, made by the Socilists. We vote for the same team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u71	Yeah, let's see, they're not numbered. The number one then is 7, 12, 15 with the 15 Socialists. That's us apart. And the others are no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u72	- Valerie. O sera, la 7, la 12, la 15 con la 15 de Eukobertarians Sociistics a part. Then we vote on the first: 7. 12. 15. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; the opponents are 0; December, 28; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u73	It's accepted. Central Resolution: 22. 23. Together with Podemos Ankerz, Eukal Socialists, and the 35th of Euzians. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 62]] [[Start of tape 63]] ... Left-handedly made by Basque Socialists and 35 Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 52; the opponents are 0; abstations 22; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u74	So it's accepted. Next group: Resolution 39. Eural patriots and Sociists of the Basque Socialist, three to six, made with 41, 4. And made with 5. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 73; the opposites are 1. Abstenations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u75	So they're willing to take three half-ways. Next group, one well: Resolution 47. We can vote. We continue together with Podemos, 47. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 7; Abstenations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u76	So it remains to be accepted. 47. Resolution. Other group: 5, 6, 10, 13, 17, 24, 33, 36, 37, 38, 43, 44, 45, and 48 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents, 47; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u77	So they're not accepted. Next group: 1, 4, 8, 9, 16, 19, 20, 21, 25, 28, 29, 30, 31, 34, 35, and 40. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the opponents, 47; abstainments, 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u78	So it's not accepted. Next group: 2, 3, 11, 26, 27. Okay? Oh, I'm sorry. Two, three, 26, 27. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 6; the opponents, 68; Absences, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u79	So these resolutions were not accepted. And the last vote was: Resolution 11. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the opponents, 47; abstainments, 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u80	So 47 votes weren't accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u81	On the sideboard. You didn't hear me. 36, 37, 38...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u82	I don't think I've put it anywhere. Yes, yes, yes. First... ' 47, not as much as that, but as much as...' Yeah, okay. Vox now, right? Missite-Voxen... Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u83	The 32th wasn't voted in the middle.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u84	If it's middle-class, we voted first.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u85	Oh, because he was a PP, yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u86	Now to Vox. Anything else? [[Berber]] No, you're right, we didn't. We vote 46 for the resolution. Together, we're short of a vote in Podemus 46. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 33; the opponents, 41; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u87	So, with 41 votes against it, it's not allowed. Now Mistto-Vox. In the first group: 1, 5, 6, 9 and 10. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, 73; abscessions, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u88	Unsupported. Second team, resolution number seven. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the ones on the side; the contrary, 67; Absencesion, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u89	Sixty-seven votes. So it's not allowed. And the rest of the resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 67; Absences, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u90	So, against the 67 votes, it's not allowed. Now the Basque Socialists, we vote for the decision of the U.S.A. patriots. On the first team, we vote for nine, 27 resolutions. No, no, no. Oh, that too? Okay. 9 on the one hand, and the... Okay, come on. We vote for resolution 9. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 63]] [[Start of tape 64]] No, no, no. Oh, that too? Okay. 9 on the one hand, and the... Okay, come on. We vote for resolution 9. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 61; the contrary, 13; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u91	So he's accepted with the 61 votes. 27th Resolution. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 61; the opposites are 7; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u92	The 27th resolution is agreed on with the 61 votes. Resolutions 10, 29, 30, 32, 33, and 37. Yeah? [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly the votes are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u93	The resolutions we've mentioned are supported by the 67 votes. Resolution 28. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; the opposites are 1. Abstations, 27; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u94	28th is accepted. Resolution. 2, 20 resolutions together. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u95	For 68 votes, both resolutions are accepted. Next group, 11, 12, 16, 18, 36, 39. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 27; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u96	So they're allowed to vote for 47 votes. And last, 20, 24, 26, 31, 34, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, and 44 resolutions. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-08.u97	So the resolutions are accepted by the 68 votes. And when I finish this vote, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at 6 p.m. and forty-eight.
