ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I remember that the eleventh point on the subject was left for another purpose. First point in theme list: The question was, "To ask the question, the members of the staff of the Jewish community, Jon Andon Ainja Sainz Euncier, the Governor of the State and the Chief of the Autobernus, about reducing the means and stabilizing public employment." Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs. Garast. Last week you could have a meeting with Mrs Laura Vilagrá, the President of the General of Catalonia. After this meeting, the principal subjects worked on a notice of the press of your department were re-entered, and the others mentioned that they had shared the pages of the means of reducing the means and stabilizing the public employment. In that sense, will you explain to us what this journey is about for the next few months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u2	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u3	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Cuckoo, you know, it's a complete commitment to the Public Administration to let us down, and we've been working on it since the law began. From this Illus it was necessary, that the Assembly of Laws, who took the Law of the Orders, in which the publique employment was consolidated. Then we must also be based on the 20/2021 law that Congress has accepted. On the other hand, as far as the public offers are concerned, we have four approved from 2017 to 2021. So, as soon as we accept the 2022, we'll have more than 3,000 squares in our offer. We are currently in the process of negotiating with the social partners of the two public employment calls to be made during this exercise, which will materialize these offers. The calls shall be made on the basis of the scales set out in the Law on Bodies and Scales, provided that there are vacant posts offered that meet the requirements laid down for this purpose. In each call there will be two types of processes: one, which enables access to the public service through the competition-opposition, and the other, which does so through the competition of merits, according to the rules of application. The first call will include those scales that are not subject to the process of integration of the Law of Bodies and Scales: they are about 1,400 places of 9 different scales. We plan to approve the first call as soon as possible, and hope to be able to carry out the tests before autumn. Next, we will address the second call, of about 1,700 places. Once the offer of places of this year 2022 is approved, which is expected before June, with the integration process ordered by the Law of Bodies and Scales already completed. The approach we have presented at the Sectoral Bureau of the General Administration highlights the need to take into account most of the experience in the body, scale, category or equivalent in question. It is also intended to assess, in a differentiated way, the experience developed in the convoking Administration itself. During the months of January and February we held five meetings of the Sectoral Bureau of the General Administration, in addition to three rounds of bilateral meetings with each of the trade unions. An intensive negotiation process, which we hope to close soon. After the first call is over, we could reduce almost 50% of the General Administration media. From that point on, gradually, as the tests of each scale of the second summons advanced, we would continue to reduce the percentage. We're giving ours and two to solve these processes. The challenge is shared, not only of this government, but also of the men who sit at the negotiations table. Let us not forget that it will be a single and limited process, limited in time, imposed by the dates that come. After all, it's the only negotiation with all eyes on it, and we've got a lot at stake. It's a challenge for a generation. We're on the way to the solution, no doubt, to leave the next generation a stable and exemplary Basque Public Administration as well as the public employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the Congressmen of the World of Maddalens to the President, about the new political State." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. At this critical hour in which Europe and the world lives, it is more important than ever for human rights, for human rights, for peoples, for peoples... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... At this critical hour in which Europe and the world lives, it is more important than ever to penetrate constantly into the rights of human rights, of men, of nations, and in a word to the rights of freedom. When human rights are oppressed, freedom retires, and therefore is necessary throughout Europe, and even in this small European people, more firmly to pursue and to penetrate the course of civil and political rights, in order that military institutions may not take the field of liberty in war. The defence of human rights, of the rights of people and of the rights of peoples is more necessary than ever in this serious wave of Europe. And just by deepening respect for those rights, guaranteeing their exercise, we will ensure that militarization and war do not end by drowning freedom. To answer the influence of war on our part, Mr. Urkullu, we have no tools. There's no place for us to decide, not even if we don't. And a few days ago, Mr. Urkullu, you said it was time to resume the discussion of the new political state, and this global crisis still makes it more clear. That's why I'm asking the new political status that you think is the element that can unite the social and political majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of Parliament, chiefs of departments, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Good morning, Mrs. Iriart. There are eleven elements which may unite the social and political majority. And in the working-group of the legislature, each group of the legislatures is in the work of the named experts. You know them as well as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u9	There'll be a million of them, Mr. Urkullu, but one of them is a Plant, and that's the right to decide. And it was you, Mr. President, never once, that you've arranged a consultation twice. And your job is to give it a ride, not always to dump the ball in another place. Look, I think there's a problem here and the problem is that when the debate phase ends, when you move on to the concrete phase, or you don't want to do it, or you don't know how to do it, or you don't dare to do it, or you're paralyzed, or you're paralyzed, and sometimes you're better off using the playing wild or you don't touch it. Arazo bat dago, eta nire ustez garrantzitsua da, eztabaida phasea amaitzen denean eta konkreziotara passa behar denean, edo ez duzue egin nahi, edo ez dakizue egiten, edo ez zaizue komeni, edo paralysazen zarete edo paralysazen zaituzte. Eta konkrezio phasera passatzeko garage da, sinesgarritasun kontu bat dellako eta gaur egun behar bat dellako. It's time to move on to a concrete phase. It's a matter of credibility. When you were referring to the last proposal of yours to the independence of 1839, I asked you how it was read in the 21st century. Depends. And there, the right to decide, Mr. Urkullu, is central. Porque quin niga el derecho a decidir, el derecho a existor de nuestro pueblo, también's niega la actulioón de sus derechos hystóricos. The right to decide to defend the social and political majority of this people is irrevocable and urgent, and most urgent in the crisis situation in which we live in order to guarantee the situation, rights and needs of the people of this country and of the people who may come to this country. Premiazkoa da eta beharrezkoa da. Gaur-garkoz egin dezakeguna da munduak erakutsi diguna, munduak erakutsi digu guri, gurekin, elkartasuneko bide bat izan duela éta guk munduari erakutsi diegu elkartasuna era. But in an interconnected world we cannot resign ourselves to being mere spectators. We think it's urgent to allow this discussion. The Basque Country is ready to begin today. The Basque Country is ready to assemble to begin work on the one deal that's in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irrie, I'm trying to tell you that there are a million of them. However, I think it's necessary to remember some of the elements so far. In the past decades, auto-gumbers have had a positive influence on the organization of our country and personality and well-being. Our Historical rights are received in the Constitution and State, and are founded on the peculiarity of our system of Autogobernus. The standard of economics fixes the two-sided communications system, the self-published autogony is still incomplete. After four decades, it would be convenient for auto-organization to-day, including new reality and European Union. It's an element that also unites us to get more and better auto-pilots. The new system has to ensure that a signed agreement will take place. We recognize the work of works in this parliament. The new proposal is to obtain as great an agreement in this legislature as possible, and the proposal received by this legislature must be a convincing institution. And the citizens will have a last word to accept by a referendum. Many are the elements that have been agreed by years of experience and by months of labor. In other words, these are very strong foundations. The question is: After the work we've done, we're face to face. [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... The elements he agreed to. In other words, these are very strong foundations. The question is: After the work done, will we take advantage of our opportunity against us? You will agree with me, Mrs Iriarte, that we must not introduce Basque self-government into a dead alley or leave it parked in a dead lane, or agree on something that affects progress in self-government and results in Basque society to keep it in a drawer. This too is an element that should unite us to address the agreement on the new status. I proposed a deliberation. I think we've advanced a lot these years, and now we have a chance to root up, encourage, encourage, encourage, encourage, strengthen, strengthen, support, and increase it. It belongs to society to decide our political future; it is for us to make this decision of society possible. As a starting principle, no democratic argument can be opposed to the freedom of society to decide its future. It is necessary to discuss the purpose and the execution of these decisions. What we call the right to decide at the present day is not a concept derived from a juridically, i.e. to be regulated; an action which exhausts the effects it has in it? More than ) is structured as a process. What is the function of the new state within the scope of work? What is called the right to decide the Basque society must be a medium, not a break-out moment. For my part, the work of defining and limiting the right of deciding is to be founded on two principal principles: the nature of political adscal tradition (practized? ), and the democratic claims of contemporary society. The right of deciding must be a vast political and institutional compact, which the Basques will later have to confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera, members of the Basque Socialists to the chief staff of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamo, concerning the new aids for the entertainment and hospitality of the Eukadical Night." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor. At the beginning of this legislature, you have explained to us the strategic lines of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs. And we realized what their intentions were with regard to confronting the pandemic and the effects that this pandemic had had on the hospitality, tourism and trade sectors. To this end, it proposed a two-phase strategy: a first phase of resistance to the pandemic, and a second phase of recovery, overcoming the health crisis. Well, in that first phase, the resistance plan is established and managed. This resistance plan has been managed and is being managed, which includes a number of measures, programmes, ordinary and extraordinary actions, but which have a common objective, and is the maintenance of economic activity and the maintenance of quality employment. And that resistance plan has been managed with transparency. You have told the citizens, the representatives of the sectors, and also in this Parliament - in plenary sessions, in the Committees on Trade, Tourism and Consumer Affairs, and also, recently, in the Committee on Health. And, in addition, it has been a resistance plan implemented and managed in collaboration with other Basque institutions, which has given the opportunity to take advantage of the synergies of the actions of these different Basque administrations. Here we have the Euskadi Bono Denda and the Euskadi Bono Turismo. And there's been a personal commitment from you to this resistance plan. On the one hand, the ongoing dialogue with representatives of the hospitality, tourism and trade sectors, in order to better adapt the Government's responses to the needs and requirements of these sectors. And, on the other hand, there has been a commitment to analysis, evaluation of public policies, programmes and measures being carried out, primarily to make such measures more effective and efficient. Recently, the last aid, the last programme that has been put in place, has been that of aid for hospitality and night entertainment. Specifically, this programme was opened on 8 February, with a budget of approximately EUR 22 million. And that is why the Basque Socialists wanted to ask you, counselor, what is the result of this plan of assistance to the hotel industry and the nightlife that the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has recently launched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u15	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Egun on, good morning. I thank you, Mrs Corcuera, for asking me this question and for allowing me to explain the outcome of the applications for aid whose application period ended just three days ago. As you well know, since we arrived at the Department, we have committed ourselves to being transparent in management and explaining the measures we were taking, and we will continue to do so. So far, the hotel sector in Euskadi has had direct support from the Basque Government of more than 120 million euros if we add those of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption with the aid resulting from the Royal Decree of the Government of Spain through the Department of Economy and Finance. In addition to other non-specific ones such as Lanbide. And, as you have said, I have appeared in this Parliament both in the plenary sessions and in different appearances in the Committee on Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs and in the Committee on Health, in order to take account of all our measures. Since the first covid - of 15 million - aid to Basque hospitality - of 30 million -, the specific aid to night-time leisure - of 8 million - and the latter to hotel and night-time entertainment - of 22 million euros -. This hotel and night entertainment support programme 2022 was published on 8 February, and the application deadline ended on Monday 28. Aid which, in a process of continuous improvement, has sought maximum equity and benefit those holders of the activity whose effort has been greatest for the maintenance of employment. In this programme of assistance to hospitality and night entertainment, 7,741 applications have been submitted. Of these, most belong to Group 2 establishments, with closing hours at 1 a.m. They're, in particular,... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... 7,741 applications. Of these, most belong to Group 2 establishments, with closing hours at 1 a.m. In particular, there are 6,636 applications. With regard to the requests of group three, pubs and special bars with closure at two and a half, 659 requests have been submitted, and the rest, 146, correspond to group four, which are dance and fun establishments, with closure at four and a half. Today we can say that the bulk of the budget, around 14 million, will be for the group two with closure at one, because it is the largest. About 5 million for pubs and bars closing at two and a half, and 3 million euros for the establishments of group four. And here I would like to highlight the process of collaboration prior to the publication of the order, which has, once again, allowed the total amount to be squared with the number of applications. Firstly, thanks to the collaboration of the Department of Economics and Finance, for its support and collaboration in the elaboration of the order itself, and secondly, thanks to the hotel associations themselves, with whom we meet regularly and who have helped to analyze the typology of the establishments, estimate the calculations of the different stages and square the budget distribution with the greatest fairness in the current scenario of the sector. Well, with this coordination, we have arrived at a preliminary assessment of the possible applications, which is close to 100% in line with the reality of the submissions and the estimated funds. From now on, the files will be resolved consecutively. And all, all applications that meet the requirements, will receive the help. In short, the new €22 million in hospitality and Basque night care will inject between €2,000 and €70,000 into more than 7,400 Basque hotels. The aid has been based on two firm objectives: to be the fairest and fairest, and to defend quality employment. For this purpose, they have been divided into sections, according to the category of establishments and their degree of affectation, considering those most affected by night leisure. Similarly, they focus on maintaining employment, so the number of workers has been calculated with a formula that rewards stable employment versus temporaryity. From the Department we will continue to work in collaboration with the sector, other departments and other institutions, coordinating the necessary measures. This programme of hospitality and Basque night entertainment support is a new step to support the most affected hospitality companies, to help them maintain their businesses and jobs. In my humble opinion, I think this is the most urgent thing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, if you're one of Mi's half-hatred by Podemos-To the President, a member of the Antices, about the tradition of education." The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u17	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. President. It's been six months since the government's hands started to get an education agreement, and the agreement will be the frame of the law of Education to come. What we expect from this process is this: to solve the problems in which our education system is modified. This being so, what I am asking you is what this government will do to give a proper answer to the problems of our education system derived from this process.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u19	Mrs. Hatage, good morning. We'll get an effective response to problems in education systems. That's exactly what the Board of Education has done for the last twelve months. He has received contributions from the community of education, of agents, of unions, of experts, and of legislative groups. Also your team's contributions. That will be the most responsible and effective responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u21	You'll probably agree with me when I say a lot about you getting a country contract, a challenge, a challenge, that we're in front of you. And to be honest, the moment we live right now is to decide for that. In this sense, I will confess to you that a point of misunderstanding and mistrust has produced the circumstances around the trial that has been created for us, and the power of the report. It is not too clear to be the page of the road to follow, and because the party in Parliament can now become a tramite only to accept a bill. He may also be. And if I tell you this, and we haven't even seen it inserted into the founder, a proclamation made by the operators for the public education of quality. And this, because it can be understood as if it were to remove any importance from public schools. It also causes disconcerting the lack of transparency in the data that are necessary for a good diagnosis, such as some related to segregation or to some international assessments of the diagnostic samples that we demand here in parliamentary office. I said that there is some confusion about the draft of the paper, because it is full of ambiguities and there are many inconcretions that contribute to the suspicion that it will be more of the same, that we will only find the same recipes as always, and that you want... that you do not want... that you want to avoid the pact, passing a little bit of points on the possibility of signing an educational pact. All that has been said is the concern of our Euscalal Education. Anyway, Podemos wants to shake hands with this government, the compact... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... I'm worried about that. Anyway, Podemos wants to shake hands with this government on the way to get a suit. You're the segregation of words that will be specific commitments. The one who considers public stocks. And who will confess the strength of public school, which is a proof of these values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u23	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Madam, in the first answer I have mentioned the contributions of your party. We are facing a nation's challenge, and I declared it inquest. I also mentioned that in former times of law that among the romances of nations education was a challenge to the people. All this contribution to the process has been accomplished more than a thousand folios. That is to say 20 times more than a law will have. So, shorting or synthesis has been inevitable. And it's inevitable. It still has an open process of accepting the education agreement and education law. After all, the law will be discussed here, arranged and settled. So we have time to go on making and collecting contributions. Even your team. We live in a moment of transformation and we must adapt the educational model to the new challenges. The new scenario is global, digital and of great cultural diversity. We face new learning systems, new demands for training, challenges of coexistence and values. We must open ourselves up to greater participation by the educational community, the need for greater autonomy of the centres, the collaboration of all institutions with education. We must be aware of the culture, of innovation, of the scientific contributions applicable to the educational process. An empowered student, families and teachers, build a formal and non-formal education school organization in interaction with the Basque sociocultural and institutional environment. Implement a co-responsible, collaborative, decentralized and structured governance model at the municipal, territorial and autonomous levels. Co-existence and diversity, planning and access to the education system. Transformation and educational improvement, equity and excellence. Educational empowerment and leadership and direction of the centres, contract program, educational councils, multilingual language model. Keys? An educational system, public and diverse, representation of linguistic competence, work by an excellent teacher, applied research, appropriate teaching materials. We have a good base. We must continue to move forward from the agreement on the transformation of education to equity and excellence. This is the spirit that encourages the proposal of the educational pact since the recognition of the essential role of the public school. Our commitment is to adopt the preliminary draft law and forward it to this Parliament this autumn. The process is still open. Education is a basic goal of Country, we cannot fail. The Department will continue to work and seek to build as broad a consensus as possible. All concrete and constructive contributions are welcome, and also, of course, those of your group. Yesterday we had a good example of collaboration with your group with the adoption of the Law on Equality of Women and Men. I am convinced that if we have been able to reach an agreement in the Equality Act, we will also be able to reach an educational pact that supports the new Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Theme list 5 Point, question. Charles Iturgaz Angulo, a member of the Basque Popular Groups of Ciudadans to the president of the Ukranians, who have been victims to the invasion of Russia. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u25	sir: Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Mr. President. Today we celebrate a new round of control. But my aim today is not to control the government, but to stretch out my hand against the government and all the Democrats against the Russian Ukraine. Europe has dramatic moments. A week ago the Russian army re-crossed the Ukrainian frontiers. But the dimensions of this new invasion in Europe. Since the end of the world war, it changes an unprecedented event. That is why I would like to say to all of you that we are facing a violation of the sovereignty of the democratic State and the (...) by force of arms, the rights and freedoms of the citizens there. This is a free assault without provocation, no justification, which the rude Russian propaganda in no way has managed to make up. If the aggressor intended to move Ukraine away from the heart of Europe, divide the Union's partners and act on fait accompli, everything seems to indicate that it has failed. Neither the Ukrainians have yielded or surrendered, nor Europe and the world have looked elsewhere. On the contrary, the cohesion of the European Union and NATO has been strengthened. Positions have been revised in Germany, for example, and neutrality policies of as long a tradition as those of Switzerland or the Nordic countries have been put to an end. It is our duty as democrats and peace-loving to put all means in place to stop the aggression against Ukraine. Support their people (...) legitimate and assist and welcome part of the hundreds of thousands of people exiled or displaced. We know that here too, in Euskadi, it is acting. There are many Ukrainians who live among us, solidarity with the owners of Chernobyl and their families has forged ties of affection between Ukraine and Euskadi for decades. And the suffering of a civilian population that is intended to double Bombing after bombing is not alien to the Basques. We share what his Lehendakari government has been announcing. The coordination effort of all the institutions and the fully supportive attitude of our fellow citizens. Our desire to add and gain in effectiveness, conscious of acting in defense of the future of all. And that's why I'm asking you: What performance criteria does your government handle to help citizens...?... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Our desire to add and gain in effectiveness, conscious of acting in defense of the future of all. And that's why I ask you: What criteria of action does your government handle to help Ukrainian citizens, victims of the Russian invasion?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, sir. And for the first time, thanking you for the support of your legal team, Euskákka announced the first day that the military attack of Russia was to be fully depredated. This attack is also a serious attempt on the letter of the United Nations and against the human rights of the nation. With this we declared solidarity to the elected representatives of the Ukraine, and to the people. To achieve solidarity, from the first day, we have offered all the resources of our sisters and of our aid to get them to the hands of people who might be victims. On Tuesday we called a first table table between the organizations, to share, to conduct, and to organize. And on Wednesday, the day before yesterday, we arranged a meeting with nearly five organizations with the Ukraine. This response is based on a practice of solidarity rooted in the Basque people. In fact, since November 2019 we have had the Basque Social Pact for Migration, which states: "In the area of migration or asylum the prevailing ethical principle is to offer what we would need if we were to find ourselves in a similar situation", which I hope will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u29	Lehendakari, you know that we fully share that attitude. Each from his or her position must strengthen the efforts of the international community. But in this, among us, unfortunately, it must also be said, in the whole of Spain and here, in the Basque Country, there has been no lack of scandal. Voices in the Government of Spain have pointed out to NATO, which, by the way, will be holding its assembly here in Madrid in July as a cause of aggression rather than pointing to the Russian aggressor. It's the usual, the ones who don't miss the chance to whip up democrats and back up dictators. And in this very House there are parties, such as Podemos or Bildu, who have called for an end to the aggression, right, and then refused to condemn it, for example, in the European Parliament. They have been portrayed, to their shame, and before the world, because they are condescendants of our enemy, they are condescendants of the enemy of the Ukrainians, of the enemy of Europe, of the enemy of peace, of the enemy of freedom. And they try to limit Spain's solidarity with Ukraine through the European Union or NATO, rather than supporting Ukrainians. Without a doubt, we must also demand that the Sánchez Government be, not in a shameful way, or in a stork forced by the European Union' s chancelleries, but side by side with our partners, and with all the consequences, as it is for those of us who are fully aware of the significance of the moment we are living. That is why I say to you that, in this regard, with your Government, Lehendakari, and from the House, this House, we are open to consensus to move all kinds of initiatives together, because it is our responsibility as democrats and what our fellow citizens demand of all of us. Thank you, lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, our readiness to help and welcome is on the way. We have shared strategy and action plans with outlaws and municipalities, the third social sector and associations that have a direct relationship with Ukraine. We have enabled a first space for the reception of 150 people. We have opened an email address to receive and organize the offers of citizen collaboration that we are receiving. We want Europe to establish common criteria for action. The Justice and Home Affairs Council decided yesterday to activate the mechanism provided for in Directive 2001/55, which provides - and I read literally - "temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of persons displaced by reason of war, violence or human rights violations". This directive will apply for the first time and guarantees residence and work permits, access to education, adequate accommodation, social assistance, financial support and medical care. All persons fleeing the war in Ukraine, those who were already beneficiaries of international protection and long-term residents of Ukraine from third countries who are unable to return safely and sustainably to their country or region of origin shall be eligible. Temporary protection shall begin to apply immediately and for a period of one year. This period may be extended, where appropriate, automatically for periods of six months for another year. Yesterday, the Basque Government held a meeting with the Spanish Government. And we also received a call from the business manager of the Ukrainian Embassy. Today I reiterate the willingness of the Government, the institutions and the third Basque social sector to comply with this directive. Solidarity and acceptance is a factor of union and agreement. I reiterate the commitment to join forces to offer the best and most dignified response to the people arriving in Euskadi from Ukraine. We have resources. We're ready. In any case, this situation is neither irreversible nor must it be irreversible. The Basque Government joins the calls of international institutions that demand that the Russian Government put an end to the invasion and aggression on Ukrainian territory. International legality, human rights and the protection of peace are assets that must be respected... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... put an end to the invasion and aggression on Ukrainian territory. International legality, human rights and the protection of peace are assets that must be respected above any unilateral claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Ask the prisoners who have committed severe crimes and have not met with the basic conditions of social society when they're going to play the "Hoase Martín" on the assumption of the real plan of the Euskozoa. " Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. In the last few days, we have learned that the Basque Government has granted grade progression to eight ETA prisoners, moving from second to third, and thus enjoying their semi-freedom over the past weekend. Since the Council for Social Policy, this release has been justified in the scientific and technical analyses carried out by experts from the treatment boards of Basque prisons, and in no case in political decisions. At the same time, since the Council itself, they have recognized that it is perfectly feasible for the Office of the Prosecutor to resort to these concessions of degree, and that they can be met with the refusal of the National Court by failing to meet the requirement of repentance and express forgiveness to the victims. For this reason, since Vox, we have asked you, Mrs Artolazabal, what are the real plans of the Basque Government to evaluate the granting of graduated progressions to prisoners who have committed serious and extremely serious crimes and who have proved not to meet the basic conditions for their social reintegration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u35	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. Good morning, Mrs Martínez. You say that you already knew that there was going to be - and I quote - "a growing release of ETA prisoners benefiting from the benevolence of the Executive in granting grade progressions." And I'm sorry to take the opposite from you, but what this government has done has simply been to comply with the law: that of the General Organic Prison Law and that of the Penal Code and that of the Prison Rules. Prisoners and prisoners linked to the terrorist activity of ETA who are in the Basque prisons have, for the most part, long sentences for condemnable and execrable criminal acts, and have also served a large part of those sentences. The Spanish Code does not foresee vital imprisonment, it will also be reconvised to a permanent prison. So we just follow the law. Bearing in mind that the Spanish Penal Code does not provide for life imprisonment and that until the newly approved permanent prison is reviewable, Mrs Martínez, neither benevolence nor liberation nor political criteria, we simply comply with the law. We knew that it would come at this time, because, Mrs Martínez, we cannot legislate with our hearts, but we have to legislate according to the law. And this is something that we all have to assume. I would, however, especially like to remind myself of the victims, to whom we will personally inform - and have done so - and in advance of any decisions that may affect them. As you will know, the treatment boards of each prison are responsible for drawing up the report recommending or dismissing the progress of persons deprived of their liberty: multidisciplinary teams that produce professional reports. These are, by the way, Mrs Martínez, the same people who were already acting before the handover of the competition. People who have always worked under strictly professional criteria, despite being one of the most persecuted and threatened groups by ETA. Same people, same criteria, Mrs. Martinez. Since 1 October, the treatment boards have conducted 330 second-degree maintenance reviews, 26 of them of prisoners linked to ETA, and have recommended 166 third-degree progressions, about ten of them related to ETA. In all cases the management of justice believed that it was necessary to confirm all proposals from the treatment committee. In all cases, the Directorate of Justice has considered that it should ratify each of the proposals of the treatment boards, since they were sufficiently substantiated and substantiated in each of the individual files. He stated in his question that prisoners did not meet the basic conditions for their social reintegration. I do not know what that is based on, Mrs Martínez, but I trust, and this Government trusts, in the rigour and professionalism of the technical teams and the treatment boards of the prisons. And I hope so, like all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u37	Mrs Artolazabal, it turns out that repenting and expressing express forgiveness to the victims is a question of terminology. Thus you have justified, Mrs Artolazabal, the release of eight prisoners belonging to the terrorist gang ETA, with very serious crimes behind their backs, and who during the weekend have been able to walk quietly through the streets of the Basque Country. Until recently, regret was expressed in standard letters distributed among prisoners, which, moreover, were rejected by the National Court for not credible. Now, they have been replaced by handwritten manuscripts, in which neither the word forgiveness is required, and it is enough that they collect the feelings of the prisoner. The form has changed, but the background, explicit forgiveness, is still not an indispensable requirement for Lakua to give approval to the third degree. We are very afraid, Mrs Artolazabal, that the change of format will not receive the approval of the judges either. In fact, you yourself have already taken the next step in the event that justice falls short of your proposals for a change of rank. It has already announced that the dossiers will be improved, so that they are perfect in form and substance. Anything to follow the road map... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... change of grade. It has already announced that the dossiers will be improved, so that they are perfect in form and substance. Anything so as to follow the road map marked by the Basque Government since it took over prison powers six months ago. A road map that none of the victims and their families, and privileges the killers. A road map that laughs at Basque society, while shortening the feathers and releasing those who pulled the trigger. An a la carte road map, in favor of their political interests, with which Vox will always be against. A road map to reach, despite who weighs and costs who costs. The victims and their families have already announced that they will appeal these decisions to the Prosecutor's Office. It weighs on Basque society, that these days it is amazed at this bochronous concession to the left abertzale, and that it is not able to understand its alliance with those who are committed to charge against the judiciary of the State and its insistence on challenging it. I give you examples: José María Arregi, the history of ETA known as Fiti, imprisoned for 15 murders. He had the privilege of being the first to benefit from the pact and move to a Basque prison. Last Friday he went out on the street for showing a regret that is considered credible for his Department but not for the victims; neither for Vox. That's some vodka, Counselor. I hope that this government will make the same effort as it has shown to release terrorist killers in order to secure their cooperation in clearing up the nearly 380 unresolved crimes. Speak clearly: your allies have already uncovered your letters. Imprisoned prisoners are proud of their criminal past, and are still attached to it. They are still linked to the EPPK, Prisoners Basque National Liberation Movement, and its red lines: neither repentance nor forgiveness. As I have already said, it is not a question of changing the way: it is a question of asking for forgiveness, of repenting of the damage done. And that has neither happened nor is going to happen, as, according to their own statements, prison law does not require them to cooperate. Something can be done, right? Mission accomplished, Mrs. Artolazabal, in record time too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u39	Road map, that laughs at society, that none of Basque society... I'm not going to answer what I really think, Mrs. Martinez. I hope that it does not call into question the criteria of the treatment boards of each prison. In their individualized, rigorous, technical reports, there are clear signs that these people have disengaged and repudiated any terrorist purpose or means. Be assured that our priority is the victims, and with whom I have a commitment and this government has a firm commitment, based on loyalty. And whoever questions it, Mrs. Martinez, is simply missing the truth.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. I inform you that the thirteenth Point has been retired. The seventh point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, "I'm asking you, the Congressman of the Casanova Alonso, "about the president's attitude of the strike right." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u41	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. This week, and even last week, the strike at Osar, various movements have been completed: mobilizations, strikes at first sight and other services. Doctors say there are no miracles either in Osamen or medicine, but we have seen a little miracle to the point of this strike, because it was already impossible, and because in that context the government had announced to protect the development of 300 million workings that had long to be activated, it has now been active when the strike has just been called. It's true that the earlier moves were also motivated in Osa in EH and an agreement between the government in the first focus, in the budget context, to give over 30 million more. And all the movement of the strikes and mutations that are being performed in the Osage, I believe it is useful to all of us to be conscious of the want and cracks we have in this public service and to put the focus there. However, the answer to your government has been the usual invocation: that it was not a good time. The same thing you said about Osa in the previous assemblies: that it was not a good time. Even when there are strikes in education: that it was not fitting. And in front of general strikes, the same thing. And so, if we go back in the hemerat, even in the general strike of 2012, against the form of work, we also saw that the Idonia had some indications of how she had reason to say it, but that it was not a good time. This seems to be your mantra, and you always use the same mantra. If there is no time for it, we think you must prolong the following question: Is there a good time for strike, according to your government?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Casanova. Look, I'm for the right to strike, of course, but I think the strike is answered at liberty. Of course, there can be reasons for strike-calling, all sorts of reasons, and we've known a lot in the last decade of our country. And I've been working on strike myself. My contribution has always been to restore the way of conversation, and to consider the exact context of each situation. This means that, first, all the other conversations and negotiations must be exhausted before the strike is reached, and this has not occurred during the summons of the Osacian strike, Mr. Casanova. The negotiation table was open, it's open, and it's still open again. The unions decided not to participate in the table called Thursday. Now, after the strike wound, reality remains the same. The sactorial table must receive proposals from both sides and have to work out an agreement. In answer to your question, I think it was not a convenient time to strike, but it was a convenient time to sit on the sactorial table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u44	Thank you, Mr President. [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... on the contrary, it was a good time to sit down on the sactorial table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Although the Osakidetza strike and its statements regarding it have been a little detonating of this question, we believe that a somewhat more general analysis needs to be made. Today is March 4, the echoes here in Gasteiz of the commemorations of the events of March 3, in which one of the milestones of the labor struggle of this country was constituted. We understand that the working class, as at that time, was obliged to defend its rights through strike. Unfortunately, I, as you proposed, would also like all conflicts, labour conflicts, to be resolved also through dialogue. But we have a situation where that's not happening. Right now we have an important strike movement in this country. We have strikes such as ITP or Tubacex, which have been successfully resolved. We have strikes in Novaltia, Alconza, Artiach, Maxam, SDA. Huelgas in Vulcanized Zuloaga, in Petronor, in the metal of Araba. We have had strikes in very feminized sectors, such as in HyM, in the surgical medical Igualatorium, where there has been a victory of the workers, or in the cleaning of the Guggenheim. We understand that the working class in this country is being left no choice but to defend their rights through the strike. And that answers two questions. First, that we are witnessing a distribution, a rebalancing of the relationship or of the very altered income distributions in favour of the elites, and that important social gaps are being generated. And second, that comes a cycle of high inflation that is impoverishing the working class. We need to address and respond to these structural changes and seek a new distribution of income that is fairer, fairer and more beneficial to the working majority, and we need to prevent the impoverishment of the majority of this country in the short term. And this, unfortunately, will have to be accompanied by mobilizations and strikes, in most cases, if not all, fair and highly motivated. And in that context, we understand that a Government that systematically disqualifies the use of the strike, is a Government that is turning its back on a fundamental instrument for defending the interests and rights of the majority of this country, because just as today's rights are the result of yesterday's strikes, tomorrow's rights will also be the fruit of today's strikes. Therefore, do not put themselves on a profile, let alone a front, when the workers of this country rise to demand what is right for them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u48	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Mr Casanova, I reiterate that I respect the right to strike, the right to strike. However, it is necessary, I insist, to contextualize the whole situation, to exhaust all channels of dialogue and negotiation before reaching the call for a strike. The aim must be to reach the best possible agreement. The aim must not be to strike as such. The Government has always tried to facilitate rapprochement and dialogue, and also in cases such as those you mentioned. Cases, for example, of metal from Bizkaia, Tubacex or ITP, offering the mediation and arbitration instruments we have. We have always done so with one priority: not putting current employment and the future at risk. This is our role, Mr Casanova. Anyway, I want to go back to Osamate. And I know better about members, health departments, and the problems and difficulties of professionals during the pandems, and we have not denied the problems. But all the resources we've been able to reach have been directed to guarantee public health services. There has been no reduction, Mr. Casanova. We've made an engagement signed with your team, that's to say, "Esejo's engagement to add 30 million euros to the contract of Osacombs, the 2022 and the next few days, we're setting up the primary attention strategy and, if that's what it is, to continue to improve. Membership is a priority, and we have a full will on the sactorial table to collect and negotiate the demands and negotiation surrounding the conditions of work. That's the way, more effective than strike. I am not going to argue about the real effectiveness of the Osakidetza strike. However, if the call was not aimed at the strike itself, and was aimed at the defence of the Public Health System, it is not understood, it is not understood the absence of the unions from the dialogue table. Before and after, solutions remain at the same point, the sectoral dialogue and negotiation table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho Group, a member of the United States, who is a member of the United States, who can break his rules and impose knowledge on the civil servants above what our laws impose upon him." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, this very week the Euskera Plan 2021-24 has been debated and approved in this House. A plan that insists on presenting Basque as a language in danger of disappearance, as a victim of a hostile environment and context, which needs special protection, something that we certainly do not share in Vox. This victimization seems to justify any measure to impose euskera in schools, administration, access to the civil service. And it is precisely the failure to comply with the Basque Law of Linguistic Normalization that we are talking about today in this House, in particular, of information according to which this government fails to comply with its own law and the decree that develops it, by imposing demonstrable knowledge of Basque in more than 70% of the places of officials, far above the legal percentage that is around 50%. So, on the subject of this, I would like to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, what is the motivation of the Basque Government to skip its own rules and impose the knowledge of the Basque in the civil service above what is stipulated in our laws.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u51	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Congressman, good morning, Mrs Martínnez. Mrs Martínez, you make the same headline as the media you mentioned without mentioning it. In any case, with you it is necessary to begin by specifying your inaccuracies. First, the Basque Government does not fail to comply with the Law on the Standardization of the Use of Euskera. Secondly, the Basque Government does not fail to comply with the decree implementing that law. Thirdly, the Basque Government is not confronted with what you call class unions; on the contrary, decisions are taken by mutual agreement. And fourth... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...the Basque Government is not confronted with what you call class unions; on the contrary, decisions are taken by mutual agreement. And fourth, the basic document for Basque education, for example, does not bet on a single language model, as you mention in your justification. It is 81% of Basque families who have placed this course on model D for the education of their children. And a positive final precision, Mrs. Martinez. I am pleased, coming from your group, that when you quote our laws, you refer to the Law on the Normalization of the Use of Basque. That you regard it as your own seems to me to be a step forward, sincerely. (... ) In answer, however, 'Eunk' does not put the knowledge of the eucalyptus above the command of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u54	Mr Lehendakari, this issue we are talking about today must be resolved by the judges, so I will not discuss it. Those who at least, moreover, have resorted to a trade union because they consider that you are discriminating against the Spanish-speaking people, who cannot prove the knowledge of the Basque woman for access to the public service. Again, his particular linguistic policy is on the table of the judiciary. The same who has already ruled on several occasions against the imposition of one of the official languages of the Basque Country and the discrimination of those who speak only Spanish. This was the case, for example, in the call for local police in Irun, which required all candidates to know the Basque language. The judges replied that communication in this language with the citizenry was guaranteed with the knowledge of Basque of one of the members of each patrol. And so, recently, when a judge has sentenced a woman, an interim worker, to be thrown out of the street for not knowing Basque, to be dismissed. In this case, in addition, the discrimination of the temporary worker vis-à-vis the official is evident, because the latter is allowed to remain in his/her job if he/she has no knowledge in Basque and more than 45 years, something not applicable to the temporary staff. And all this happens in the eyes of a Basque Government that does not fail in its effort to impose without convincing, whatever the price to pay. In this way, we can assist a very large number of interns who have been working in the public administration for years to go without any chance of approving the different public job offers that this government has announced it will be calling in the coming months. Right now they're preparing an education law that's going to impose a unique model across the region with euskera as a axis, for example. They don't give a shit about the ability to learn, to condition the potential of students, because there is a higher goal than everyone else, which is the consolidation of Basque as the only language in the Basque Country. They are aware of the impact of their policy of linguistic imposition. The one that exacerbates the problems that our health suffers to cover vacancies, which is going to leave thousands of interns on the street, which discriminates against Spanish-speaking people in public job offers, which today makes it virtually impossible to educate our children in Spanish, because there is no place to educate them in Spanish. And I'm talking about a lot of specific cases, like what you already know, and I'm not going to put myself here to report. They are aware of the consequences and insist on their policy of imposition, rather than promotion or standardization. They use this language that discriminates against people who do not speak. His government partner, six years ago, already understood that the Basque Public Administration was an area of language discrimination. I understand that today, with the demand of the growing Euskaldun language profile, you will think the same. This will not prevent you from allying with you to pass an educational law that discriminates against Basques because of your greater or lesser knowledge of Basque. And do not get confused, the Basque deserves our respect, but not so your policy of imposing this language, contrary, moreover, to the interests of a very important part of the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u55	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. I am not going to fall into or entangle myself in the ridiculous justifications of any of the judges who have recently handed down a question that you have mentioned. In any case, Mrs Martínez, I insist on your thesis, although it does not coincide at all with reality. Because the reality is this: Basque and Spanish are official languages of all, of all, the public administrations based in Euskadi. The Basic Law on the Standardization of Basques, on the Use of Basques, of the year 82, contains an authorization addressed to the public authorities to encourage the use of Basques. The aim of normalization is to create the conditions for achieving full equality between the two languages, always from the point of view of the rights of our citizens. The decree regulating the process of normalizing the use of euskera in public administrations states that we must take appropriate measures to standardize the use of euskera, whether as a language of service or as a working language. We comply with the mandatory compliance rate set out in the standard, with the minimum established according to the linguistic reality collected in the official census data. That is, 52% in the sixth planning period we are in. We continue to address standardization plans, in order to respond to the goal that citizens can have full attention in either of the two official languages. Today, 76% of General Administration positions have a mandatory date, and more than 85% of public employees and public employees comply with this requirement. Thanks to this legislative basis, the commitment maintained and the will of the people working in the public administration, we are making progress. The knowledge of euskera among the employees of the Administration was 23% in the year 90, and reached 70% in the year 17. This progress can only be explained by the acceptance and adherence of Basque society to linguistic coexistence in Basque. Do not attempt to artificially generate a controversy that does not exist here. Try to join the implementation of the Act which establishes - and I read it literally - "The citizens of the Basque Country are recognized, among other things, the following fundamental linguistic right, the right to be related in Basque or Spanish orally and/or in writing with the Administration and with any body or entity based in the Autonomous Community". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Interregation, you're in Martíni, together with Podemos, a member of the Antizian team, first member of the vice president and Security department, the practice of the game." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours. [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... "... Made from the head of the Security Department on the practice of gambling. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u58	Good morning, thank you, good morning, Mr. Erkorek. Again, the theme of the game, because it is a subject of much concern to us, and also because, as Government, we have long-term strategies and proposals about this matter, and because it is a great smoke of ours, and are the initiatives we have shown in this legal investigation. We have denounced many times the negative consequences of the game, the pathological game, and also this culture of the game that is being outsourced, which is spreading, I'm sorry, by Basque society. The Basque Observatory of the Game in 2020 said that 70% of the Basque population has ever played gambling. Euskadi's Addiction Plan tells us that 26% of Basque society, more than 400,000 people, is an active player. That 25% of young people have recognised playing in the last year. That this practice is being very normalized, moreover, with behaviors that are worrying, like that there is an aspiration to earn money with this practice, six out of ten young people claim the same, and it is also played in society, as a way perhaps to socialize, that no, surely will not be the most recommended. The Health Department itself cites in this Addiction Plan that there are 43,000 people in Euskadi who suffer from the disorder of pathological gambling, and approximately 5% of young people face this addiction. From our group we have said more than once that this is a failure of a model of society too individualistic, that it is not offering sufficient leisure alternatives, especially to the popular classes, and that we have to solve that dichotomy between the defense of public health and the health and the health of people, and the business of gambling houses, which are a legal business, but which has very worrying consequences. From our parliamentary group more than a year ago we presented a non-legislative proposal improving one that we had tabled in the previous legislature, which included some limitation on the number of play establishments, including sufficient minimum distances between play establishments and educational institutions, universities, etc. A regulation of static advertising, a control of access to establishments, and above all, on gaming machines. Also a surcharge on the Game Tax and a specific fund also to deal with the pathological consequences of the game, and the prevention of the game, which is perhaps the most urgent thing we have to do to transform this reality. The Government has brought down this bill. The argument we talked about more than once was that regulation by decree was supposed to be more agile and more appropriate. There we could enter into a debate you and I on the number of laws, some of which have been dealt with very slowly in this House, and others quite quickly. But you said that the decree could also be a much more agile and urgent tool, but it has taken you a year to pass that decree since we had already tabled that bill in this House. Moreover, I say again, it was a way in which the various groups in the House, and I am sure that in addition to this we could have reached some agreement, we could have made a direct contribution. In our view, the decree, the decree that has recently been adopted, is short. There are positive measures, but they are short. There are measures that are essentially very similar to the proposed law that we have tabled from our parliamentary group, but there are some that are much shorter than we would have — we had tabled, and that we were, logically, prepared and willing to negotiate with the rest of the House groups. We said this because face-to-face play is the predominant game in Euskadi, 70% of the game in Euskadi, according to the Basque Observatory of the Game, is performed by that channel. There is a fact, that more than 31% of the youth started in the game when they were younger, and they became... those young people also through face-to-face play. Therefore, it seemed to us, and it still seems to us, that the limitation of the number of establishments established by that decree has been cut short. That the distance between betting venues and educational, health, university, etc. has also been narrowed by (?) some of the measures, for example, which have been extended with regard to online advertising, in the advertising regulated by the State, have been extended in two hours the ability to advertise in Euskadi; that is, if in the State in the band to advertise in the media is one to five, here in Euskadi has been established in the band regulating the Government from 12 to six. So there are two more hours that we don't know what the justification is. We still do not have connected and regulated the registration of prohibitions, because it is a very effective tool, and besides, it costs a lot to people who suffer from these pathologies to register, but there is a job to do that is not done. The Basque Government does its work in the Autonomous Community, but these records have to be connected so that the people who are listed in this register cannot play, as we have said more than once, in Cantabria, La Rioja, Burgos or any other movement within the Spanish State. Nor has a tool been collected like that of the surcharge, and above all, we thought that structurally, beyond the programs that we know we have promoted, that you continue to introduce in the budgets, but that it seemed essential to us to establish a structural figure in Euskadi that was a specific fund for the prevention, the treatment of the addiction of gambling. Therefore, our question is whether you consider..., and our inquiry is whether you consider that the newly adopted decree will be an effective tool for a real change in the subject matter of the game and in the pathologies of the game in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u59	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martinez, your question is not what you have just spoken here. His interpellation says: "What are the purposes of the Basque Government to alleviate the pathological effect of the game?". It's a completely different thing. The decree to which you have referred is one more piece of this whole policy. One more piece. But his approach was much more general. It's not this decree. I have no inconvenience in speaking of the decree, which is a fundamental piece, and I will refer to it as many times as it takes and as deep as it is necessary. But, logically, I have to respond to the whole approach you make. Because it has been limited, in speaking of the decree, to highlighting some loopholes, which you consider some limitations and loopholes, but, of course, it has not highlighted the aspects in which the decree goes even further, it is much more ambitious than the regulations that have driven in the same matter or in those same matters the central government still recently. It has been strictly confined to the aspects that you consider defective, even with some, I believe, error of approach in the processing of statistical data that I will then see if you will allow me to do so. In any case, what I would like to highlight is a couple of things. First of all, the fight against the ludopathy of the Basque Government is not a struggle that arises from one department; it is a cross-cutting and interdisciplinary struggle and is faced from different departments of the Basque Government, each of them has assumed competence in this matter. And they all act in coordination, in a coordinated way, because there are organs created for a long time that allow it. One is the Basque Game Council, another is the Technical Advisory Commission of the Game and the Basque Game Observatory itself, to which you have referred, is made up of some of the departments that also have very important functions in this fight against pathological gambling. I am referring to the Department of Health, which, logically, we are talking about a pathology and has a primary responsibility; I am talking to you about the department that has competence in youth matters, which also has important functions. A Youth Bill is being processed in the House, with specific provisions regarding addictions, youth and health and others that can be very useful in the development phase to complete the forecasts we have been developing in this area. I am therefore going to confine myself in my speech to explaining what we are doing from the Department of Safety, but consciously assuming that what I am explaining does not exhaust all that the Government is doing in this area. Secondly, man, you are interested in the purposes, the future of the Basque Government, even the decree, i.e. it has updated (reasonably?) Now in his oral intervention what was the initial approach. But I do want to record an important fact. The Basque Government's concern about ludopathy is not now that we are... You and I agree temporarily in this House, dating back a long time, at least from the year 1991, when the law, still in force, the Basque Country Game Law, which already established the need to address rigorous planning in the field of gambling according to a series of criteria that were specified in its chapter four, and one of which was, precisely, not to encourage habit, not to stimulate addictions, therefore, particularly in the field of minors and in the most vulnerable groups or with their limited or reduced volitional capacities. But, above all, this concern comes from the year 2016, in which the General Regulation of the Game is approved and a very important law in the field of health, which is the Law of Comprehensive Care for Addictions and Drugs, which clearly distinguishes between what are substantial additions, linked to substances, and behavioral addictions. And it places, the first of them, of the behaviors, is precisely the ludopathy or the relations with the game. Good. I was surprised by a case. You have made reference here and put in circulation various statistical data. But, expressing a concern, as it seems to express, in the field of ludopathy, has omitted the fundamental statistical data of the studies that the Basque Observatory of the Game has been carrying out, because there are figures that concrete to what extent, at what level, ludopathy is manifesting itself both in the youth sector... - this was done in the last report, which was presented this year - as a more general part of society as a whole. The problem of... the existence of a problem game in the field of youth is estimated at 3.2%. But more specifically confined to the group of young people who have played in the last year, the problem of pathology is circumscribed or limited, it is 0,8%, an always high figure, logically excessive, disproportionate, because we are talking about a pathology, but ultimately narrowed and clearly circumscribed. What is the Basque Government going to do? Well, now we have a new decree, which you think is insufficient. But it is a new decree that allows us to continue to advance, deepen and intensify the work or work that we have been carrying out from the Government in this field in three different orbits: through interventions, direct actions of the Administration itself, through efforts to promote support and grant subsidies and aid to entities, collectives, foundations, associations working in the field of the fight against ludopathies and also in the field of joint coordinated actions in the framework of collaboration with public or private actors who have competence in this field or who work in these functions. What the Basque Government is doing and what the Basque Government is going to continue to do is not in the air. It is, let's say, within the framework, first, of the work plan drawn up by the Basque Observatory of the Game itself. We are following the road map marked by the Basque Observatory of the Game, which in turn intersects with forecasts of the Basque General Public Security Plan, which in turn intersects with the Government Programme. The Government Programme of this Executive has commitment 109, the number one initiative, which refers to preventive measures in relation to particularly vulnerable groups in this area. And, in turn, even with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which in its objective three speak of well-being and the preservation of health for vulnerable groups. Having said that, this action of the Basque Government that has been developing, I insist,... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... three talk about well-being and the preservation of health for vulnerable groups. Having said that, this action by the Basque Government, which has been taking place, I insist, since the last years in which the concern for the struggle or the need for the fight against ludopathy has clearly and unquestionably been expressed, is structured around three axes. Firstly, prevention, awareness-raising and awareness-raising in this area. Second, regulatory control and inspection, and third, comprehensive treatment of people with addiction problems. In the latter, logically, the Department of Safety has more work, let's say, more promotion, more momentum, more collaboration, because what is really the treatment of pathologies is not the responsibility of the Department of Safety, but of the Department of Health, which has a priority role in this regard. In the field of prevention, awareness-raising and awareness-raising, an activity is carried out directly by the department itself, and a non-disputable activity through entities, collectives, associations and foundations working in this field, through annual calls, grants and grants that have been granted since I am a director of the Department of Safety and Security, and which will continue to be implemented and developed also in the following years. In the same year, 2022, there was a budget allocation to make a call for proposals such as that in 2021, in which nine aid was granted to so many other entities, which (?) praiseworthy, plausible and highly positive work in this area of prevention, awareness raising and awareness raising. As far as regulatory control in inspection is concerned, regulatory control has been greatly strengthened by the decree that you consider to be insufficient, but there are collectives who criticize it ardently, because it seems to them to be a turning point against the hugely hard sector, but also considerably intensified inspections. In 2021, 2,771 inspections were carried out by the Ertzaintza Play and Show Unit, out of which only six sanctioning files were produced, which means that it has indeed been possible to verify that the presence of minors in the playrooms and establishments is extremely limited, very limited, very small, occasional, and when it occurs (?) in general, and not only the presence when it is also played, is noticeably smaller, isn't it? It's only six sanctioning files. And finally, the comprehensive treatment of people to addiction problems, the department actually develops an awareness work in this field, has developed a guide for the early detection and prevention of pathological gambling, which is a useful tool for teachers, for free-time monitors, for staff working with youth, and has a remarkable extension in places and spaces that are reference for youth, but logically here I will not supplant the Department of Health in what are really treatments against diseases. If you want to talk about the limits of the decree and also its virtues. I don't have time for this first intervention, but I have no problem talking, and the problem of personality too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u61	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u62	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. I agree with you that it is a subject which ought to be treated with respect to the conflict against pathological influences of the game. We've asked you a question or given you an interpenetration as long as you're president and as you're head of Security, and we've also made our contribution in other areas. You also cited, for example, the Youth Act. Now that we have practically made a law in the paper..., a new law, a law in which more than 50 totally structural amendments from our parliamentary group have managed to negotiate them, and that many of them, moreover, and one of them is specifically devoted to the subject of health and youth and the subject of leisure and youth, and therefore, of course, a... I know that it is equally true, you are right, the inquiry was what the government has in mind and the question about the decree, but well, I am sure that you also knew and prepared the answer with the subject of the decree, because I know that you know it very well, as is normal. The concern for the pathologies of the game, as I said, logically is prior to 2016, you have quoted, and surely there are people who have been working it for a long time..., from a long time before, and we do not intend to say otherwise at any time, but it is true that the regulations that we have had up to now in Euskadi have made possible is the proliferation of betting houses and local betting houses in the streets and neighborhoods of Euskadi, and a problem that is perhaps less discussed when the public debates of the game, which is all the historical problem in Euskadi, and also the struggle of the employer so that it does not change with the slots, in the bars, and then, also, the debates that exist with the hospitality, because it is also a source of income, and it is necessary to balance all that, but first, in that balance, the first thing must be the health and prevention of the pathologies of the game. Well, yes, we think, well, and also, I forgot to say at the beginning, also in health matters, in our own budget amendments, and our, for example, mental health law proposal, was also incorporated into this, because, well, we have not managed to get you to give a positive opinion to that bill, but we will continue to propose measures in mental health, and at no time have I said that the Basque Government does nothing, but yes, we do say that again we think... It seems to us insufficient, and it is not... I think it is the wildest opposition you have in this regard, but it is an impulse, an impulse to the government, because we think that the commitment we have to vulnerable people, and that I am sure you share, is greater than any other restriction we have. Therefore, it still seems to us important something that has been left out of the decree, which is the mandatory implementation of a system of identification to slot machines and sports betting machines, because it is true, casinos, bingos, betting venues, there will be a greater access control... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... a system for identifying slot machines and sports betting machines. Because, it's true, casinos, bingos, gambling venues there's going to be a bigger access control - we're glad - but not in machines. And it doesn't make sense that in a large location there is access and that in the online game I have to identify myself with the DNI, with the credit card, etc., and there is an identification system, and in those machines not, that are connected to the same system that companies have for the online game. Because the only access control that has a machine that is installed in a bar is the work of the host - which they have enough to manage their premises - and that, moreover, the only thing they will check is the age of the player, but not if, for example, it is registered in the register of prohibitions, because, logically, it is not their role. So technology, right now, makes it easier for these machines to have online access with an investment - I'm sure it's very cheap. And besides, I'm sure we could work it out in time. The same was said at first with opening and closing times. We said that also – and we think and will propose it – a structural plan is created that is in all budgets in a mandatory way, for the prevention of the pathology of the game. The same was also true of advertising and static advertising. We are therefore going to continue to present measures – and indeed we are doing so in a constructive spirit – and I hope that as we have valued the decree positively but insufficiently, we will also have the will on the part of the Government to negotiate additional measures to further improve the prevention of the serious pathologies of the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u63	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Martínez, you have raised many things in relation to the decree already, giving concrete expression (...) to the focus of vision there, have you not? It first raised the debate on the relevance and appropriateness of the decree versus the legislative instrument to address this issue. You have made a motion for a law, you want to defend it too much, and it seems to you that the law was the great instrument - because you presented it - that can solve problems in this area. I told him that the model we have installed in Euskadi is a law that can be retouched here and there, but that the law itself establishes a periodic review planning mechanism that is more adaptable to the situation. He tells me, "It's just that you've drawn up a decree and it took you a year to pass it on." Yeah, I'll remind you of another thought. Every time government groups promote a legislative initiative here in the House, they always blame the same thing: it comes without reports, it comes without contrasts, it comes without the COJUA, as such. I have taken a year, but I have brought with all the contrasting reports that have allowed all the parliamentary groups to make all the assessments they have and to have. Which, if we came to accept his bill, none of that would have happened. No contrast of any kind: legality, relevance, opportunity, sociological... None of this that you blame when the initiatives come from the groups that support the Government. Secondly, I have cited the Youth Act. I did not want to mess with it, nor do I want to talk about its content, because I know that it has important references and that the groups have worked in a positive way to also incorporate into that law forecasts that make reference to the problem of ludopathy, specifically in the field of youth. It seems positive to me, but, well, as the Law has not yet fulfilled its procedure, I have limited myself to making reference to it and it seems positive to me what is being done in this regard. I think the problem is well addressed. We have adopted a decree that is perfectly homologable to the most advanced who are in the framework compared, at this time, perfectly homologable. You can improve this point, you can perfect this other, maybe at some points we are above the standards of demand that set the autonomous communities of our environment, at others it can be that we are below... Maybe, maybe. I think this is the time to let the decree work. We will not attempt to amend the decree as soon as it has been adopted. Let's let it deploy its effects. The problem is well addressed. The legislation is collected, clear, disseminated; it is made known, it is consensual. At least it is contrasted with the whole sector, with the whole collective. Not everyone is 100% in agreement with its content, of course, but the regulations are known by the entities and collectives that are called to apply it. And, therefore, I believe that what is relevant at this time is to allow it to take effect before dealing with its amendment. The standard was adopted on 8 February. It was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country on 15 February. It's barely a month ago, isn't it? It will therefore have effects in the coming months and years. And, in order to make an assessment, we will wait for the necessary time to pass and address, in due course, if necessary, the retouchings that are necessary or necessary to improve or refine its content. I have seen that you are concerned about the problem of personality, but it is not (...) with a subject, eh! Let's see, the in-game in-personity, automatically, takes us to the head, brings us to the head, the image of a young person or a person in a gambling establishment, in a gambling room or in a betting venue. But face-to-face is also the one that is given every day, and mostly in the most widespread mode of play in society as a whole and also in the youth that is the lottery. The lottery. The National Lottery that, to modify it, I can assure you that you are closer to the bodies that can be trained and have competence to eliminate it, to modulate it, to suppress it, to remove its advertising and so on, than what this government may be doing. But that's never done online. The Lottery is purchased, purchased at the lottery establishments or purchased from any person who is distributing tenths of the lottery through the bars or the streets. The lottery, that, is face-to-face. When I'm talking about the lottery, I'm talking about Bonoloto, too, and I'm talking about the blind coupon... Anyway, all of this, the ONCE Coupon, that all of this, has... in fact, is invisibility. And it occupies almost 60% of the activity of the game, also of the youth. Then let's not be wrong. Presenceality is not a playroom. Presentiality is especially in those sectors, in those modes of play, which are not the responsibility of the Basque Government, but of the central Government, as you well know. From there, I believe that the approach that has been taken is basically correct. We are following the instructions, the guidelines, the guidelines marked by the Basque Observatory of the Game, and we will wait for it to deploy its effects to propose any modification or retouching in the decree. That's what I'm proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interregation of the Arena Kortja..." [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...propose any modification or retouching in the decree. That's what I'm proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u66	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpology, myria Kortja, members of the Ibaña EH Collectors, made for the second vice-presidents and managers of the United States, the intervention of the minimum income to live on our protection system." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mountain chief, good morning. We, Mrs. Mountain, have been worried about Ingreso Mínimo Vitala since this affair began and we've often said: how to render a little premeditation, or a small-manly preparation, the possibility of better and more protecting people. Ingenreso Mínimo Vital is a small impact on ours, as far as the economic preparation of people who hire money revenues is concerned. Y tampoco serviá para ampili sustancialmente la coberatura, aunque hay algunas excepciones. But being so, how do we turn a limited impact performance into an opportunity window to protect more and better? How can we turn the arrival of minimum income into a window of opportunity to regain our ability to innovate in terms of income guarantee? Invest in reducing our poverty levels and their intensity? Hori zan da gure kezka nagusia denbora Honetan, ezta? Eta esan dugu behin bath gehiagotan benetan garrantzitsua den audiz bataz ari garela, herritarren bizitzan eragin handikoa dena. Baina batez ére partesona zurgarrien babesean helmen handiko kontua of her, eta henera bieste eskualdatze batzuen aurrekaria izan daitekeela. Beraz, you're garranting her handikoa. That's why we were active agents in this process. We've been close on the subject with the plots that have arisen there with the state. We have publicly made your agreement with your position in certain cases. And we also brought an initiative to this congress of law to strengthen your position with the state government in New York. And we got a large deal: The parliament proclaimed a complete acquisition of rights for the support of incomes, for the support of poverty and neglect, and for the advancement of social cohesion. And, uh, how many times this whole story has been going on for a year and a half, isn't it, Mrs. Mountain? This process has been disturbing. It's been too long. I don't know how many commitments have been, an agreement to unlock the subject. They've also been deceptions, think. And once more our dependence on our state has been revealed. But it seems that in the absence of the Joint Commission's signature, which seems to be the 16th, right? From what I've read now, now there is a transfer. You have congratulated yourselves on it, but I have to tell you, Mrs Mendia, that we are concerned about what this may mean and I have to tell you that these doubts have not been dispelled by the statements and announcements made this week. And that's why I'd like to share those concerns with you today. Lanbideek Ingreso Minimo Vitala izapidetu, onartu eta ordainduko du. I mean, Lanbide will fully manage the Vital Minimum Income, manage. And full management is transferred. Councilwoman Garamedi said the other day at the press conference that this is a benefit of social care, so it is a one-stop shop, without complicating the charging of citizens. And so, we prevent citizens from having to do two. But I thought we agreed that we didn't settle, we didn't want to be a branch of Spain. And you specifically asked me a question I asked you about that that I wasn't going to accept. However, it does seem that the shots can go that way. And we are concerned about the management of this whole thing. We've already had a lot of problems and complications in the persuasion of two preparations. Even the profession demanded a meeting about the matter, because it had caused trouble. And now that we say a deadline is going to open, it doesn't seem easy, does it? The question is how this affects the benefit of these preparations. Because it's going to be rather chaotic so far. It'll probably get easier with the transfer. But it's gonna be complicated, and that's what worries us. But what concerns us beyond that transition period is how the system of our protection remains, right? What remains of our ability to determine our own protection system and our ability to decide on this matter. For there are parts of our exclusive competitions in the maintenance and services of society, which are able to regulate minimum revenues. So for the last 30 years, we've decided here about these policies, we've designed them here with all its limitations and dysfunctions. We can talk about them another time. We've got a system of our own, a long-recorded residual system. But it is also true that the exclusive nature of this competition does not exclude the possibility for social security to assume such benefits in the field of its protective activity. And now, for we find ourselves with a case at least at least of competition. It is not so much that Social Security has decentralized, as we are being told these days. That another day we'll talk to Mrs. Garamendi because there's probably a lot to talk about. But social security has spread to a subject that we've regulated so far, hasn't it? With this it will now be up to us to limit ourselves to managing that competition. Maybe that's why Councilwoman Garamendi remembered the other day the framework in which this transfer had to be agreed, right? By committing itself, the Spanish Government said, that minimum living income was part of social security rather than assistance or social policies. Zuenak, we had to swallow it. But I don't know if this is what we really wanted. If this is what we were talking about or talking about when we were talking about when we were talking about the integral transfer, to keep our ability to decide on this matter here. In a question he asked about it, he pointed out that GIR is a referent. It has also been so for minimum living income, and it stressed that it was most logical that minimum living income should be integrated into the income guarantee system. But I don't know if it's possible with this that you've agreed. And the point is that the management of this competition generates a duplicity that the less, the less it will involve adding complexity and bureaucratization to the processing... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... this competition generates a duplication, which at least, at least, will mean adding complexity and bureaucracy to the processing of guaranteed rents in a service like Lanbide that is already quite saturated. And we are concerned about the consequences of all this from those who are benefited. And we worry about what this leaves to guarantee the incomes, a reform, a necessary reform, a reform that's being delayed, don't we? The facts show that there are many who, having been in a state of need, remain outside the system, and that our system has, in some measure, lost the ability to reduce poverty and its intensity. So, I want to ask you how this situation leaves reform, how does that project of yours stop? In those reports which announced the transfer and appeared within a few days, the source of the government was mentioned, and it was said now that it was intended to encourage the reform. But I don't know if we have a project in our hands that's good for adaptations. But the fact is that a few days later, the chairman of the Mount of Mount Gara, announced on Tuesday or Wednesday, that in order to improve the preparations, you want to prepare a law to ensure the revenues and the Ingreso Mínimo Vitala. And I don't know what that leaves your ante project. Exactly what it means. Because we don't have any spiritual qualities around Ingreso Minimo Vital, we can't decide about it. I don't know if all this excites more incertumbres, does it not? It's the beast garrantzitsua in the sticky beasts. It's gonna take us a long time. How much delays this process of income guarantee income reform. We are concerned at the expense of the signed ones to ensure the incomes to become an empty income. To condemn the nature of the RGI to be absolutely subsidarian and subversive when the axis of our protection should be the basis of the system. And this, in our opinion, in our ability to protect and guard our fellow-citizens and to build a system of our own in our attributes would be a step back. And we're worried that all this would risk losing that window. And it makes us especially concerned that this happens in a very delicate, timing and text environment, doesn't it? In the past few weeks we've known the data of the Caritas Foundation, and we've seen that nearly 50% of the amount of citizens with hard materials in the Araba, Uskaia, and Gipu. Pretetats and instabilitys have increased in their jobs, and that the number of people with difficulty in their daily routines has gone up. So, I think we've got a full pair of pants and it's not easy to do, and that's why today's interpenetration, Mrs. Mountain. And that's why I wanted to ask you, well, what plans are, basically, I don't know exactly that question, but, well, what are the plans about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u69	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Eskerrik asko, Kortajarena andrea andrea interpelazio hau aurkezteagatik. Gaur, nik you had an interest in her. The first thing I wanted to say to you is that if we stick strictly to the inquiry that you have prepared, you have presented, it is to say that the Government is prepared, it has always been prepared, to receive this transfer as it comes, because as we have always defended it. And not only to assume in this month of March of the year 22, but they have incorporated it into the bill of the Basque system of income guarantee and inclusion for when this Parliament can approve it. Because the truth is that we have never considered any other option and you know it well because we have talked about it on several occasions. That transfer we knew was going to happen. Because there was a reciprocal and absolutely clear political commitment between the governments of Spain and the Basque Country. And we had that conviction and on the basis of that conviction we have been working on, and what we did a year ago was to design a new, more modern model, more comparable to other advanced protection systems in Europe, more agile; that is also a guarantee to care for vulnerable people in a much more immediate way, and broader, with better coverage, especially in cases where there are minors or pensioners who have no other prospect of improving their income. Therefore, the question in which you justify your intervention on my intentions, for I believe I have already answered it: to fully integrate the new provision of the IMV into the Basque model of income guarantee. And it seems to me that this is excellent news. First for those who are entitled to IMV who will not have to travel between different windows or have doubts, as you pointed out. Also for those who work in Lanbide, who will be able to solve the files in an integral way from recognition, from the opening of the file to the end and for the Basque citizen himself who obtains in this an example of what the policy serves, which serves to do useful things and not to generate problems. And I think it should also be celebrated by this Parliament, which, as you pointed out in September last year, agreed by an overwhelming majority that the two governments will complete this transfer in full in order to strengthen our income-guarantee system with the aim of tackling poverty and exclusion and, above all, advancing social cohesion. So, in short, Mrs Kortajarena, we have complied and I believe that your group and you, who are the spokesperson, should share that satisfaction. Just eight months ago, as you also pointed out in your speech, and kept it to the end, you doubted it, didn't you? And he asked me a question calling into question that this transfer could reach Euskadi. And I assured him in a clear way that he was going to arrive and that it would be complete. And yet you, remained in doubt. Still today it seems that he wants to sow doubts about the transfer itself. A few days later he presented this initiative which I referred to and a clear majority of this Parliament, including the groups which we support the governments of Spain and Euskadi, we spoke with absolute clarity. And if today you and your group do not share a minimum of that satisfaction, if you strive to oppose even what you ask for... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... with absolute clarity. And if today you and your group do not share a minimum of that satisfaction, if you strive to oppose even what you ask for, for I think you will have to explain it, perhaps elsewhere. Because to me what moves me in part, I think, right?, is under an appearance of concern... I do not know whether you, in the end, have been bothered to sign the transfer, just as we have been defending it, with a full character, in order to be able to integrate the minimum vital income into the income guarantee system that we have in Euskadi. Because you refer in your justification in the inquiry to the report of Caritas and Foessa, which, of course, is a report that we have on the table in my department, because in every action of the department, every plan and every strategy we always think of the people that affect our decisions, they cannot be otherwise. And among the recommendations made by these reports, challenges and proposals speak of reinvigorating the welfare state in the areas of housing, minimum income, care, decent employment, promoting citizen participation, improving the coverage of GIR, minimum living income, implementing measures that reduce job insecurity, addressing and reducing the five gaps identified in Basquedi: income, age, digital, gender, and origin. And you know, Mrs Kortajarena, because we have met on many occasions, that exactly the five points of those recommendations we are working on within the department. Therefore, I believe that one of the ways we have opened up is precisely that modernization project of the Basque Income Guarantee System to integrate minimum living income into its core. A law that with this already agreed transfer will be able to complete the course of internal reports in the Government. It's already in the final line of the reports. That, moreover, was an express request in the last legislature here, in this House: they wanted the model to arrive endorsed by all kinds of mandatory government reports. Well, that's how the bill will come to this House. That's what we did, too. As well as incorporating the contributions of multiple actors who in the past legislature gave their vision of what this model should be like. Another reason also expressed by your group in the last legislature. So I hope that on this occasion, well, they are satisfied because it has been done in this way following this conduit. And that's how we designed the law. Starting from the fact that the Basque Social Inclusion and Income Guarantee System is a 30-year history, one of the main hallmarks of Basque self-government, a collective success, the best social investment we have made in this country and that it is also a reference outside of Basque. On this basis, on this solid basis of continuous experience of 30 years, it is updated and modernized to adapt to the new social and family realities, it also integrates this new provision of minimum income vital and seeks... -because you have also pointed out your concern about how it can impact on Lanbide the processing of IMV - seeks to facilitate the processing both to the collectors and to those who process it in Lanbide. I am convinced that you know very well the text on which we are working in the Government, the many drafts we have had. He was able to see the evolution also that he has followed the text from the first draft to the last one that is right now in the COJUA. What I hope is that, when this bill comes to the House, we will be able to make a way together to bring this law forward as soon as possible, because it really brings great improvements to the system and, above all, great improvements to the people who receive income guarantee income and minimum living income. It is well known to all that this Government has an absolute majority. But I believe that there are laws that are worth trying to reach agreements far beyond the majority of government. I also know that the group to which you belong did not want to be in the consensus that has brought us here today, to a model that, with its imperfections, as you point out, has been the most complete and consolidated of our entire environment, homologable in addition to the most advanced models that we can find in the European Union. But I do want to tell you one thing, Mrs. Kortajarena. I have been in opposition banks for many years, and I am deeply proud that with my vote from opposition banks I have contributed to creating more and better self-government through laws like the one in force. So I hope that what was not possible in your day, because you did not want to participate in that law, is possible on this occasion before I believe that a challenge and a paradigm shift that we have to face in this 21st century. It's a unique occasion for us. And I invite all the groups in the House to participate and seek consensus and agreement so that this law, when it comes to this House, has a path as short as possible and we can adopt it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u71	Yeah. Thank you. Eta eskerrik asko, Mendia andrea, azalpenengatik. I will also tell you that I am also immensely proud to have been many years of my life fighting with those people who are perceptors of GIR, sharing their vital experiences and working and campaigning for their rights to be fulfilled. With which, in that sense, his pride seems fine to me. You said that the commitment of the two parties was very clear and that you had no doubt. But this has been a process that has lasted a year and a half. I do not know whether that assurance that you are expressing is shared by Mrs Garamendi, because there has been a moment when there has even been talk of disappointments. That's not what I said, eh. Lehendakari Urkullu said so. And for the moment, for the moment, the coexistence of the two benefits, for the moment, at this time that there has been a management order, that I understand that there is at least one part that is going to be solved with the transfer, because it has not been so wonderful for the users. It is true that they have not had to make two queues, but they have encountered many problems. You yourselves from Lanbide requested a meeting to resolve some of these problems. But there have also been problems that have been generated by requests for the collection of abuses, for example by Lanbide. I mean, I mean, here the experience, well, we'll see if it can actually be better... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... for example, by Lanbide. I mean, I mean, here's the experience, well, we'll see if it can actually be better, but... And you said that this government is prepared, that you are prepared, that you have everything prepared for when that transfer comes, that was already a little planned. It'd be your thing. I have some doubts, because I have read the preliminary draft and I have some doubts, I have some doubts, but the doubts are generated more when Mrs. Garamendi says that what you are thinking is to bring in a new law, that's what you said in the (?)tele, which will integrate the two. So, that's what I... It is this, it is a new one, because it is not clear, because it is not clear, because a preliminary draft already had it, we do not have to bring a new one. With which, well, that does generate me..., it creates me doubts. And I was wondering whether or not you had been through this process, Mrs. Mendia, because the truth is that yes, yes, I had my doubts not about whether the agreement was going to be produced, and I told Mrs. Garamendi the other day too, I was of course going to give that agreement. But in this matter, the important thing seemed to me to be the content of that agreement, which was agreed upon, and in addition to what was agreed upon, because, as I said, we are at a very concrete moment, and for us this transfer should serve as an opportunity window to address that process of redesigning the system that we have at this time, which we have at this time pending. And we have been an active agent in this regard, and I have told you before, there have been times when there have been determinations made by Mrs Garamendi on the table, and we have said here that we were in agreement with that determination. What happens is that what we want is for things to be done right, and above all, two things: one, that this is a window of opportunity to protect more and better, and two, that on the way, in those competitive competitions that are given, we do not lose decision-making capacity on this issue. And that with regard to what has been agreed, because we still have our doubts, because as much as you say that things are already prepared, I think there are many things left to work. With this, for us here there are three fundamental things: one, let this be understood as a window of opportunity; two, let these problems of coexistence that are currently being resolved, and that of course, in the process of that new law, that I no longer know if it is the one that Mrs Garamendi says, if it is the same as you say, I do not know, that of course we maintain our decision-making capacity here and that the RGI does not become a mere subsidiary complement to the Vital Minimum Income. Above all, that is not also used as an excuse to save on poverty reduction. And then there's the times, and then there's the times. I'd like to know what time frame we're going to move. And, of course, we are going to work very seriously, as we did in the previous process, in what is the network (?)).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u73	I know, Mrs Kortajarena, that from your group on this issue, as in so many others who consider them to be trunks, they want to work seriously and positively. Therefore, I first of all, to clarify concepts, because sometimes, at the end of the day, I was saying a political leader that one has to get used to in this task to be spoken for by him, because sometimes because you speak, but then it seems that you have said something else. It is the same bill, I mean, Mrs Garamendi is responsible for the Cojua and it is the bill that is in the Cojua, and it is new because it is different from the current one we have. That is why you also know, because you have read the different drafts and we have had various meetings to explain to you the content of the different drafts, which is indeed a window of opportunity for Euskadi to modernize its protection system. It is, in fact, a great many areas of improvement with respect to the law in force. Obviously, in its parliamentary procedure the groups will be able to propose another type of improvement, but I believe that what we are doing is forming a social protection system that must also be perfectly coordinated with other systems if we are to succeed. And you know it perfectly well, that you have worked in the sector. Therefore, also with regard to the issue of competitive competition or competence, which concerns you, that ultimately, there is no loss of decision-making capacity, especially in the area in which we have been developing this system over the past 30 years, I must say that it should not worry, because it is that the Vital Minimum Income does not, no, no, but it is that your group sits in the Congress of Deputies, has supported this law since its first formulation in the form of a royal decree, and then later in its processing as a bill in the Congress of Deputies. In fact, they did not even submit an amendment to the provision that leads to this transfer that today we are going to have, well, that this is the... Next week we will sign for Euskadi, and soon for the Foral Community of Navarre. Therefore, I tell you this because the Vital Minimum Income what that is is a paradigm shift in the concept of social security benefits. Yes, it is, Mrs Kortajarena, because we are in a century where, of course, employment is going to change a lot and there are going to be many people who are not necessarily the usual people who are working in the social field, who are going to lose their incomes. And therefore, what is done is to constitute a ground-based service of a universal nature practically for Spanish citizens. And, therefore, this is the issue: the paradigm shift. Obviously, there's a confluence as to the collective... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Spanish citizenship. And, therefore, this is the issue: the paradigm shift. Of course, there is a confluence in terms of the collective objective of income guarantee income, which converges with the IMV, and, therefore, what the law that we are about to adopt in the Governing Council does is the coexistence of both, the cohesion of both, in order to facilitate to the perceptors their lives and also the processing within Lanbide. Therefore, it will be perfectly possible to continue to develop the same social policies that took place in Euskadi until the day of signature, when it takes place. Okay? I mean, I think you should be clear about that. On the other hand, you tell me about savings. And I think it is a concept that should not be used in this area, because we are talking here about investment, social investment. This government's minimum living income saves nothing. Nothing's nothing. The IMV is a new benefit for all Spanish citizens, including the Basques, who some receive the IMV and income guarantee income, and the transfer will involve the application of the quota, as is done in all transfers. I therefore believe that this is an issue that should not be dealt with by that concept. And as for Lanbide and the processing of IMV in Lanbide, of course, we are going to have a very demanding transitional period, logically. So, too, we are holding many more meetings in that follow-up committee that was formed with the management commission, and from the moment the transfer is signed, then, well, we will also have a transfer of another kind, right?, because in the end you are going to manage everything and you have to transfer all the files, the data, etc., in addition to the technological platforms that the Ministry has. I therefore believe that what we should share in this House is satisfaction, because what the Basque Government was demanding has been fulfilled, that is, a comprehensive transfer that can perfectly coexist with our income guarantee system, and that we can do the policy we want for Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Time's up. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the legislatures of the Ostero Galirdo EH team, made by the head physician of Economics, patience, and Environmental Division, about the shelter of the surrounding mountains of Gastine." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u75	Yes, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Tapia. There's a little hiccough around the Gastian Mountains. 2006. The Gastian Town made a suggestion to the Aradin of Arbataba, and the Mojok, that is to say, to convert the Gastei Mountains into a natural park, in an area with more than 13,000 acres. 2010. urtean, sozialistak Gobernuan, baliabide naturalak ordaatzeko plana abian jartzen da, agiduan hau esanez: "The area of the Vitoria Mountains is one of the most unique and environmental interest of Álava and has a natural potential with good conservation status". Bi urte beranduago, dagoeneko hasierako onarpen bat dago Gasteizko Mendiak parke naturala izendatzeko, hau esanez zehazki: "From the study and assessment of the territory that covers the area of the mountains of Vitoria, as well as from the analysis of the alternatives, it is estimated that the figure of protection that best suits it is the Natural Park". In the year 2012, the government is changed, EAJ enters the Department of the Environment, and the process is given by hand-free. And in this legislation, three years later, a small portion of Gastine Mountains, 2,000 acres, is named the Special Protection Area, only 15% of the original proposed area. 2016an, Legebiltzar Honek gehiengoz hau onartzen du zehazki: "Parliament demands the Government to comply with the decisions taken in this House and, consequently, to continue the process for the declaration of the Natural Park of the Mountains of Vitoria". Eta 2016an, Ingurumen Saila berriro eskuz aldatzen da, sozialistek hartzen due, eta urte bat beranduago Arriola Sailburuak hau esaten du idatziz: "At this time the review of the actions carried out above is being completed, while at the same time evaluating the revision of the proposed management plan and the proposed delimitation for the Natural Park". Yes, in 2017, the Socialist Party continued to try to create – or that said – a natural park the Vitoria Mountains. But in 2020, the Environment Department changes again when − stays in your hands, and now we know that your intention is to increase the Special Protection Area until about 5,000 acres. And, of course, if this were not done and no more steps were taken, more than half of the country at first proposed would be unprotected. And in front of this, the question is quite obvious: Is this permanent? Will the Natural Resources Planet of the Gastine Mountains be closed by what you're predicting? Is this a decision that doesn't give up the natural park?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Well, I'll add more to history, Mr. Otero. Because the story begins in May 2003, and the high Gasteian Mountains (... The part of nature was introduced into 2000, and the Government Council appointed a place of interest. That's where we start. And it is also necessary to say that in the State of Gastine, in the year 2001, it is acknowledged as an indispensable protection, or the soil of the forest. Then it happens that what you're talking about is to protect the natural park in front of the 2012 proposed proposal, and when it became public, all this information was opposed to the majority of local committees and municipal councils in the selected area, and you've always been fond of respect for what the town does. And it is also worth recalling something else that has happened in Parliament, in this Parliament. In March 2021, a non-legislative proposal was adopted urging the Basque Government, in collaboration with the municipalities and councils involved, to analyse the possible extension of the ZEC de los Montes Altos de Vitoria. Also the General Councils of Álava approved a motion, in 2021, on 24 March, in the... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of the Upper Mountains of Vitoria. The General Councils of Álava also adopted a motion, in 2021, on 24 March, in the same direction. From there several meetings have been held with the Foral Diputación de Álava and also with the City Council of Vitoria and the councils involved. In such a way that an agreement has been reached that has already been presented to these councils on 16 February in order to extend the ZEC as requested by this Parliament and the General Councils of Álava. It is undeniable that the environmental values of the mountains of Vitoria are, of course, important. It is undeniable that there are large areas covered by indigenous forests; that they are representative in addition to the mountain areas of Álava, that there are a large number of animal species; among them, of course, the representation of raptors, micro mammals and carnivores, and that, in this sense, it is appropriate to extend that ZEC. So, what's our position? From the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and Environment, together with the Arab City Council and the City of Gasteiz, the space of the Natura 2000 network, the ZEC de Montes Altos de Vitoria, is expanded. To this end, it should also be noted that since 1 March it has been published on both the Irekia portal and in other areas, the prior consultation so that this decree that has been agreed can be carried out in order to protect biodiversity, the territory, and that this ZEC is extended, at least, to twice as much as it is currently qualified.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u79	I don't know if you're thinking of saying goodbye to the Natural Park of Gastei Mountains. I'd like to ask you, what's your problem with the Jeltists and your problems? All the others, including the Socialists of Government, and the problem is to go against what the reports of fun are saying to keep a thousand acres of environment from being protected. Why does the natural value of the Gastine mountains endanger the protection of the environment every time the range is in the hands of the Jesuits? You mentioned the opposition, there is no opposition that can be formed through a patrician, but there are other things in it. It won't happen that here, in this proposed area, the other must go to an oil park, the other that he has to go a line of high-speed train, that he has to go to a new gas break. Is it not, after all, about environmental protection (Euscal? That he talks a lot, but when the economic interests get involved, the environment always remains at second hand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Otero. To the carpet, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u81	Thank you, Mrs. President. Well, I'd like to mention what this parliament says, and that we obey what the Supreme Council has said, that the area is to protect and I'd say what the council say in some cases, what the committee says, is highly respectable in your opinion that it is sometimes variable. With respect. That's what they want. And on the other side, I would tell you not to manipulate it. You know very well that at this moment gas is not possible, neither here nor anywhere. So let's not manipulate it. In this case, the widening of this CAC will protect the entire bi-difference, which is agreed on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with Podemos-Nozzeral members of the Animal World, Housing and Top of the Transport Department, about the planet of Eukot's public firm." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u83	Thank you. Mr. Arriola. We would like to ask you about the staffing of the public company Euskotren, because we find a contradiction, in my opinion, in its management on this matter. I mean that your party and my coalition have recently promoted and approved in the Congress of Deputies, a labor reform that has among its main objectives the reduction of the temporality in employment and, moreover, with good results in these first two months since it was approved. Instead, we find that in an important public enterprise here in Euskadi, of which you would ultimately be the most responsible politician, you continue to maintain a temporality in your structure, a temporality in important, very high employment. If I don't have the data wrong, Euskotren currently has about 1,200 workers, about 25% of whom we would be talking about temporary workers. In any case, what powerfully draws our attention and powerfully draws our attention to trade unions and for what they have asked on more than one occasion, without finding too many answers, is the fact that in the planning of the Government itself, budgetary planning, it seems that a certain structural staffing structure is planned. That, however, in the reality of the company is very different. There's an important differential. A differential which implies that the actual structural staff is far from the structural staff that the budgeted Government itself. This draws our attention, draws our attention to the trade unions and therefore my question is very simple, to what is this difference, Mr Arriola? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u85	Mr Hernandez, the General Budgets Act of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2022 provides for budgetary allocations for a structural staff of 1,066 Euskotren. To this day, this structural staff is guaranteed and covered with 883 fixed persons and 183 possible persons. And in addition to those 1,066 people, Euskotren has 138 people on its temporary staff.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u87	Eskerrik asko, Mr Arriola. Of course, the data does not match the data that the unions give us. And I would like, in this regard, to make a suggestion to you. Because the unions are... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...Mr. Arriola. Of course, the data does not match the data that the unions give us. And I would like, in this regard, to make a suggestion to you. Because the unions are asking and they are not answered by the government and they are not answered by the Euskotren management, which, let us remember, is a public enterprise. The unions are denouncing the high temporality that has remained in the company, which has been for years, is not a matter of recent years. That is why we have waited to ask you, to spend some time since you assumed this responsibility. But what we find and what the workers of the company Euskotren, especially through the unions Workers' Commissions and LAB, are moving us, is that it seems that the situation is not resolved, despite the fact that the company's own management has recognized this high temporality and the intention to reduce it. So, I'm asking you... I ask you, first of all, to be transparent with the representatives of the workers, who also, as you know, have, in the case of the Workers' Commissions and LAB, two representatives on the board of directors, who are not properly answered to their questions in this respect. And secondly, what I ask of your department and you specifically is to work to reduce that time in that public enterprise. Because the unions say that there have been possibilities, with the existing labour exchanges there have been possibilities, to cover places that are not covered. And I would also like to ask you one last question, more than anything, because the unions seem to find no answer. I would like to know whether there has been any kind of indefinite recruitment of people who have not belonged to any stock exchange. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u88	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u89	Mr Hernandez, the data I have given you are certain and contrasting data. At this time, between the structural and the temporary staff, Euskotren has 1,204 people, making it the largest public enterprise in Euskadi. And in the development of its activity the company is obliged to align its organizational structure and its staff to ensure the highest quality and efficiency in the delivery of its services. For this reason, alongside the structural squares, there is a stock exchange of temporary workers who cover the casualties that occur in Euskotren for different reasons. Among them are those of disease, which, as a result of the covid, have experienced in the 1920s, 21 a significant rise. Also derived from training and retraining needs, family reconciliation or the exercise of trade union rights, which raise the ratio of hours not worked with sustained increases in the last two years. On the other hand, training programmes for train, tram and bus drivers, which last for weeks, are developed on a regular basis. And this makes a good part of the eventual places intended to cover precisely those jobs related to driving. The process of covering fixed and temporary vacancies is very complex and is regulated by collective agreements approved in the public enterprise. These processes always seek to preserve the rights of Euskotren's staff, whether they are permanent workers or potential workers, and of the people who make up the labour market, while guaranteeing citizens the provision of a safe, timely and high-quality public transport service. In any case, one of the objectives of the Department of Transport and of this adviser is to reduce the temporality in Euskotren to the minimum essential, in line with the Act of 28 December 2021 on Urgent Measures for the Reduction of Temporaryity in Public Employment. And in this we are working in coordination with the social partners with representation on the railway operator. I have to tell you that this effort is bearing fruit and has already resulted in a compromise recently reached between the management of Euskotren and the majority of the company's trade union, which also implies the commitment of Euskotren to ensure a minimum fixed workforce of 1,066 workers and the reduction of time to below 10%. There is still work to be done, indeed, but this pre-agreement represents a substantial advance in achieving this objective and shows the Department of Transport's commitment to the workers of Euskotren and to improving their working conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u90	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interlation, the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörres, members of the Ciudadans of the Medical Department, to close up the surgery Service of the Heart of the Union." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. The chief of the department. Chief health department. The Department of Health and Osakidetza, rather the management of the Hospital of Basurto, has made the decision to close the Cardiac Surgery Service of that hospital and unify it in the Hospital of Cruces. This decision has caused a discomfort, a concern, a concern both in the professionals of the centre, in the service itself, as well as in the professionals of other services of the same centre and also in other hospitals in Bilbao, such as the Cruces itself. Obviously, this decision has also generated concern and discomfort on the users themselves. And it has consequences in the fields of care, training and research. They have a great impact on what is the Cardiology Service of this hospital, which is the most affected. And we would say not only to the Cardiology Service of this hospital, but to cardiology throughout the territory of Bizkaia. It particularly affects what has to do with diagnostic and therapeutic techniques (percutaneous?), structural percutaneous intervention, treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, cardiovascular emergencies. And, above all, it must also be borne in mind, Madam Counsellor, that the ageing of the population tells us that some of these techniques are going to experience exponential growth. I mean, it doesn't make much sense that, when we see that some of these techniques are growing in demand, a service is closed, which, by the way, is the oldest in the Basque Country. And, above all, it doesn't make sense when there is a long waiting list in some of them. Nor does this decision make sense when this hospital is a pioneer in some techniques, and so it has been recognized, as treatment... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Of them. Nor does this decision make sense, when this hospital is a pioneer in some techniques - and has thus been recognized - such as the treatment of cardiac arrhythmias, and is also a reference point in what is advanced heart failure. Nor does it make sense when you well know that many of these patients are in a situation and at high risk. For example, in the case of cardiovascular emergencies, the aorta must be directed. And, in that case, a transfer is quite dangerous for this type of patient who is in a rather serious situation. There is a possibility, in these cases, that these patients cannot be adequately cared for as a result of the transfer and, consequently, increase mortality in cases of acute myocardial infarction, if there is no cardiac surgery service in the same hospital compared to others who may have it. As you well know, multidisciplinary teams have also been formed in the various services, which are unique throughout the Basque Country, and which would be seriously damaged if the Cardiac Surgery Service disappears from the hospital. There are, therefore, specific units that disappeared. On the other hand, and as far as the teaching offer is concerned, the impoverishment of the teaching offer would be a very obvious thing as it is a university hospital. Training needs would be limited at a time when there is a shortage of professionals, especially medical professionals in some specialties, and, above all, this is not understood at a time when there is undoubtedly a need to increase the supply of training. You do the opposite with this decision, which diminishes it, even eliminates the possibility that there may be such a formative offer here, as was currently being given. I also ask you - because it is an issue that has been transferred to us by the professionals themselves and that I know they have raised it - if one service with two headquarters could not have been preserved. That is, with a unique planning, but not dismantling the Cardiac Surgery Service of the Hospital of Basurto, and taking it to the service of Cruces, with a common clinical management unit. We also have to remind you - and you know it very well, because you have managed this situation throughout these... not two years, because you don't have so much as a counselor, but during the management of the pandemic itself, the importance of having more than one center for what are complex surgeries - which is what we are talking about - has been highlighted to make them less affected. Not to imagine, counselor, the appearance of a focus in one of the hospital centers in a surgical area that forces its temporary closure. I do not know whether you have considered this situation, but we would also like it to be clarified. We have to tell you that the Cardiology Service at Basurto Hospital is an essential service. It is configured as the oldest in Euskadi, and its closure would clearly mean a loss of cardiology; not only the elimination of cardiac surgery from the hospital of service, but a loss of cardiology in Basurto, obviously, in the territory of Bizkaia and in the whole of the Basque Country. We all have to agree; or, thus, we thought it was so, that it has an indisputable value. It seems to the Government that this is not the case when it decides to close it and transfer it to Cruces. I do not know if they have considered the issue of delays in the transfers, because Cruces is Barakaldo, and Basurto is where he is, with much easier access to the entire population of Bilbao. Therefore, here too there is a risk to the lives of patients who obviously have to move to a place that is further away from what is currently the Hospital de Basurto. On the other hand, you have recognized us over all these years, as you have done with other hospital infrastructures, which have made great investments. And so is the Hospital de Basurto. I mean, you've even taken a lot of breasts, even you've taken pictures with the lehendakari talking about all the investments you've made in all the hospitals. So it is now surprising that when money has been spent – by the way, money from all Basques – on very important investments, you want to put it out of effect with this decision. For this reason, we consider it important - and it does not say so, in this case, the People-Citizens Group - but we claim and today give voice to the group of professionals who have expressed their discomfort, their concern about the closure of the Cardiac Surgery Service in Basurto and moving it to Cruces. And, therefore, we ask you, counselor, directly, whether it is your government's intention to reconsider this decision to close the Basurto Cardiac Surgery Service, since it is being a controversial, highly contested decision, but, I say, by the professionals themselves of the Basurto centre. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u92	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u93	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Osakidetza is a networked service. A network in which the services are organized to give an integrated response to the citizens, to all the citizens of Euskadi, sending each patient to the specific resource most appropriate from primary care to the most complex hospital that it may require. Next year Osakidetza will turn 40. It was built from the assumption of competences and infrastructure transferred from the State, in compliance with the Gernika Statute. It grew with the incorporation of other services, and it grows every year with the incorporation of new primary care hospitals and the incorporation of new technologies - of course, Mrs. Garrido - and we will continue to do so. For example, proton therapy soon. These new additions require constant review and improvement of the care circuits, because Osakidetza is not a chronic succession of hospital facilities. During these years we have witnessed the creation of management units... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... because Osakidetza is not a clonic succession of hospital facilities. During these years we have witnessed the creation of new health management units, the merger of others. All this, with the aim of offering our citizens the best possible health service; indeed, the best valued of the whole State. If we stick to the surgical activity, we have 11 integrated health organizations or OSI, with surgical services, and all of them, only the Hospital de Cruces has the complete portfolio: General surgery, Cardiac surgery, Maxillofacial surgery, Paediatric surgery, Thoracic surgery, Angiological vascular surgery, Plastic surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, Neurosurgery, Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology, Traumatology and Urology. The rest of those we've always called big by their size, by their size, Donostia, Txagorritxu, Basurto and Galdácano, do not have that same portfolio. And in no way can it be said that this implies impoverishment or decapitalization of their hospitals. Each and every one of them has their role within the network. Donostia has no cardiac surgery; Txagorritxu has no cardiac, pediatric, or plastic surgery; Basurtus has no pediatric, nor thoracic surgery; and Galdacan has no cardiac, maxillofacial, pediatric, thoracic, plastic surgery, nor have Neurosurgery, and no one, no one can say that they are decapitized or impoverished, neither these nor the rest of the network's county hospitals. Osakidetza is not organized as a competition between hospitals or regions. Osakidetza is an organization that works in a network, I repeat, and that designs its services according to the needs of the citizenry and the resources available, with the aim of providing the best quality of service and obtaining the greatest efficiency of its resources, public resources, yes, Mrs Garrido. Focusing on the matter at hand, Basurto's cardiac surgery. First of all, I want to stop at some expressions that are being used in this matter. You've done it in the interpellation, and they're not random nor (?), the closure of the cardiac surgery of the Hospital de Basurto. Osakidetza is not proposing the closure of anything, what he is proposing is the transfer of the cardiac surgery team four kilometers away to the Hospital de Cruces, four kilometers away. Make the calculation of the rest of the distance that may be between people who need hospital care, and these are provided appropriately. And?) understand, by teams, the necessary instrumentation, very sophisticated and teams of professionals. The complex cardiac surgery activity in Bizkaia will be performed in Cruces, or is performed in Cruces, which in addition to the territory of Bizkaia, also covers the territory of Araba and Basurto, where it is attended to the population of Bilbao and derivations that are carried out from Barrualde and Galdácano. Between the two hospitals they perform more than 700 surgeries a year, with figures that vary each year, but that are between 400 and 500 on Cruces, and over 250, 300 on Basurto. And in the case of Basurto, they were derived annually from other organizations, especially from Barrualde-Galdakao, about a third of their interventions more than four kilometers away. Interventions that could have been perfectly derived from the Cruces Hospital. European and American scientific societies consider that personnel performing complex surgeries need to practice a minimum of operations to acquire and maintain their skills, increase their experience and improve. They are patterns that are set according to the results of mortality and complications during surgery, mid- and long-term admission. For complex cardiac surgery, the international recommendation is a cardiac surgery service for 1.5 million people, a quantity that coincides with the population of Bizkaia and Araba. And within that service, every surgeon should do a minimum of 70 surgeries a year, and the whole service, a minimum of 600 surgeries as a whole... as a whole. Neither of the two services alone meet this pattern. If they are unified into one they perfectly comply with these patterns. What we do have to say loud and clear is that at present, and although separately they do not reach those standards, each of the services has results in line with the best European standards. That is not in question, but what we do believe is that by uniting the work of both the result would be even greater. So far I have only referred to complex cardiac surgery, not to the Cardiology Department of Basurto Hospital. Because by extension and interest one hears that Cardiology disappears from Basurtus. That's not true. In this hospital all Cardiology services will continue to be offered, and it is even intended to enhance the endowment and activity of external consultations of hospitalization, both conventional and critical patients, functional tests, electrophysiology, cardiologic interventionism and hemodynamic tests and therapies. The fact that complex cardiac surgery is moving does not mean that the Cardiology service will not continue to be of quality, that it will decapitalize or impoverish, that we will have fewer specialized students who can carry out their training properly. Osakidetza has very good Cardiology services in other organizations that do not have complex cardiac surgery in the same hospital, such as Txagorritxu, Galdakao, Donostia. And their services are still excellent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, you tell us that it now brings us to light the scientific recommendations, that we have always been very followers and very advocates of the scientific recommendations. We would also have liked that during the pandemic more attention would have been paid to experts and scientists in many decisions, when you yourself have ignored them, and have been the general focus of the Department of Health throughout the pandemic; therefore, it also draws attention here to trust and to take the recommendations out of hand... [[(End of tape24) o25. beginning of tape.]] ... It has obviated them, and has been the overall focus of the Department of Health throughout the pandemic. Therefore, it also draws attention to the fact that the scientific recommendations are put forward here. But what a coincidence they're getting them out now. In other words, it says that it would be advisable, based on the criteria or these recommendations, to move complex cardiac surgeries to the center of Cruces. I ask him: And then so far why haven't they moved? Why haven't they moved in so far? You've been squandering resources. And I say you because the Basque Nationalist Party has managed health care virtually all these years, except for four years by the Socialist Party. Have you been doubling resources unnecessarily? That is to say, it draws attention to the fact that certain decisions are taken at a given time. That what I think underlies it is rather an undercover cut, an undercover cut, a staff cut, a cut at the end of what is offered to the citizen and the resources offered to the citizen. Because if it was so good to centralize, why has decentralization been maintained so far? You answer me how the transfer of those people who are struggling between life and death will be resolved, which at that time moving them to a place that is further away may be detrimental. Answer me if it is not advisable, in a pandemic scenario, to maintain two centers for certain issues, and also issues that are complex and serious, when we already have the investments made. So, you answer me why investments have been made in the Cardiac Surgery Service in recent years and then dismantle it. I mean, it's an absolute contradiction. Finally, I do not know what opinion he deserves, but if he does so much to the scientific societies, I imagine he will also do so to the numerous professionals who have questioned this decision also on the basis of technical criteria. What a coincidence! Based on strictly technical criteria the professionals affected by the Cardiac Surgery Service and other professionals... Man, you're not telling me, counselor, that these professionals are not using technical criteria. And if you don't, get out here and beat 'em up. But the criteria I have used are those that have been transferred to me by the professionals and are technical criteria. Maybe they don't match your department's technical criteria. Probably not. Because I believe that a political decision lies behind your decision. But it's no coincidence, counselor. You're dismantling Basque public health. And what was a reference for the rest of the autonomous communities and a pioneer service on many issues is no longer. Many unjustified CAP closures. Because I do not say that there are decisions that need to be made and that certain issues need to be centralised. But what a coincidence that happens at a certain time and all followed. The closing of the emergencies of (Txagorritxu?)). I mean, it's that you in a key area of the city of Vitoria are not going to let the people living there, in the surroundings, access a basic emergency with a cut, with a dizziness, that then if it has to be moved to Txagorritxu, it can be moved Txagorritxu, if there have been super-emergencies, that would have to see how the super-emergencies of Txagorritxu remain. But do not forget the possibility that there are emergencies in a very important area of Vitoria and that people have to move to Txagorritxu simply to attend to dizziness, to attend to a fall or a cut. Man, and now there's the Basurto Cardiac Surgery Service. Counselor, this is no coincidence. It is a policy of hidden cuts, which you want to sell us with improvements, but which are simply cuts, and where it is clearly seen that health and care quality for the whole of Basque citizenship is diminishing. And if you don't, you just have to go out on the street and see what people think right now of the service being given by Basque public health, Osakidetza. And not by its professionals, but by the way in which Basque public health is being organized. Look at the multiple complaints there are about professionals, about users. If you don't have to see it anymore. Well, if you don't want to see it, then don't see it. But obviously Basque public health with you in government is not what it was.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u96	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u97	I see, Mrs Garrido, for her second intervention, that really the Cardiac Surgery Service in the Hospital of Basurto, in the Hospital of Cruces or in the entire network of Osakidetza does not care, because she has used all her second intervention to do as she likes to do, a totum revolutionutum of everything without entering into anything and with a lot of inaccuracies. I will not answer you about Gasteiz's emergencies on this occasion, but now we talk when you want, and we speak precisely of something you have said: public resources, it says sometimes when you want, it says others when you don't want. I will concentrate on your question why this decision has not been taken so far, why it has not been taken so far. It has not been taken so far because it started in 2006, it began to work in 2006, it resumed and the pandemic had paralysed it. And that's why now it's when we get back to that job, it's been doing... Because just like you think this is something new now, that the cardiac surgeons or the Basurto Cardiology Service this has found it now here, so suddenly. Well, no. Ask them and tell them to give you correct information and not to make you mix with medical terms, with surgeries or with types of equipment, no, not to make you mix, to tell you things as they are. I will give you one more reason to make, moreover, at this moment this change, this reorganization in the service of Osakidetza. There are only two centres throughout the State that have authorization for the implantation of the permanent mechanical heart. Ask about it. That, that's the future. Since the Ministry of Health, they have been saying that authorizations will be increased, that these practices need to be increased. If services are not unified, we will not reach the minimum number of interventions per team in order to be able to opt for such techniques. Do you think we should keep waiting? Regarding the support that the rest of the services of the Hospital de Basurto have given to the maintenance of the activity. I understand that respondents do prefer that this service remain in... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... regarding the support that the rest of the services of the Hospital de Basurto have given to the maintenance of the activity. (Do I get it?) They do prefer that this service remain in their hospital. Of course, I'd say yes, too. If you ask those responsible for all the services of all the hospitals in Euskadi whether they want to have a complex surgical service at their center, they would also say yes. It is the nature of services, the inertia (...) of diversifying. But I repeat that Osakidetza is a network, which must organize its services as efficiently as possible. I will literally tell you what the professionals of the Basurto Cardiac Surgery Service made public in a letter to. The professionals of Cardiac Surgery of Basurto: "We believe that fusion only brings added value if the conditions most favourable to our surgical activity are maintained, and it has to be the closest thing to the daily routine so that there is no variability of results. From Cardiac Surgery of Basurto we advocate a strong, united and competitive service, which, regardless of its location, gives satisfactory solutions to the needs of Basque citizens". This is precisely the reflection we have made in the Department and in Osakidetza, Mrs Garrido: bringing added value to the merger. Moving professionals and teams does not waste anything, so that they can continue with their usual routines but adding strength and knowledge. They advocate, like us, like Osakidetza, like the Department of Health, because it is not a decision of Basurto management - nor have they provided you with good information about it - because it is a united, strong, competitive service, regardless of location, Mrs. Garrido. Think of citizenship, think of a good health service, that citizenship values as the best in the state; that you have forgotten to mention before. In conclusion, the unification of services is an improvement in terms of quality and efficiency. They will improve the results of mortality, complications and health outcomes of the population served. They're good, but we need to keep improving. They'll homogenize the directions and they'll be located... Unify attention protocols. The establishment of a team that responds to congenital pathology in adult and paediatric age will be facilitated. Training, training and training, as well as professional and personal development will be enhanced. Above all, as I said before, we want to position Osakidetza's Cardiac Surgery Service as a reference service at state and European level, by volume of activity, by the results obtained, and thus be able to opt for authorizations of new techniques, always thinking about improving the health care of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera and EH Collectors to the head physician of the Medical Department, concerning removing the surgery from the hospital in the Ediology of the Union." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u99	Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Well, we're still on the Basurto. The Service of the Cardiology of the Basurto, especially the Arritmic unit for years, has been, in fact, a high-ranking unit, with many acres of reference. And that requires a heart surgery at the center. Today it is the only Osakidetza accredited by the Spanish Society of Cardiology with the SEC-Excellent for the atrial fibrillation ablation procedure, and as a training center in this specialty. In addition, it has the only Osakidetza Syncope Unit, and many other reference collaborations with state-leading hospitals for non-invasive methods, which with the elimination of cardiac surgery in Basurto would remain in the air. It's a barbarity to take heart surgery to Cruces. It's not a whale to argue that it takes to improve its quality to the cross. It's not fair to say that it takes a volume to make such activities of quality. There's enough volumes at the Baraston. We know that certain specialized activities cannot be performed in all hospitals, but it's not the Basurto case. We think management is the first rule to keep what's right and what's reference. What need is there to remove a reference service? It is not worth while to say that it is not a reduction, that it is a centralization, but rather that it is a list of seven months' waiting there. How many waits are there on the cross? In the end, that's what's going to lead to increasing the stacking. And when the batteries grow up, what'll come next? Privacy? What are the results of the Basurton and what are the results of the cross? It doesn't even follow that in 2017, when $15 million of euros became an investment to put on a new surgery, and in theory to make 2,500 more interactions in the year, this decision is now made. This isn't planning, we can call this a bad management of public funds. To the Church of the Barsurto, and other hospital services, it is also essential to maintain the surgery of the Heart, and to guarantee the quality of hospital services, to continue to penetrate into study and form. That's how we think, Mrs. Apple. Besides, why is the Medical Department suddenly determined to take everything to the Cross Hospital? Is there room for everything? But we do not see this subject as a purely matter of the Basurto Hospital, or as a contest between the two hospitals, but we see that it would be necessary to act as the health strategy of a country, to win the excellence, and, above all, to guarantee the public health. So, the chief physician: Is the health department ready to reinforce the decision to get rid of the Heart surgery Hospital at the Basurto hospital?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u101	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, Mrs. Ubera. I think the earlier intervention has been fairly wide and accurate to understand why the medical department and Hosa planning services are thought to be good for the union of both services. According to your question, you have not been informed of the cause of the union; only do you wish to know if we wish to reappear. What is the basis of your re-establishment? Because he was a precursor in his day, and he's a reference... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Only if you want to know. What is the basis of your re-establishment? Because he was a precursor in his day and he's a reference hospital? The other one too. We're a net. You said it. You say the effect of the hospital in the boar hospital and of the Osar is undeniable. What influence is it to be so undeniable? We have to measure the effect on hospitals or patients. And it's normal that the presidents of the boar services would prefer not to keep their service. Sure. I've explained it to them before. But with a small and small service we shall not be able to come. We're gonna do a big service, make it better, and we're gonna be in time for new technology. As I have already shown, reason is connected with giving it a better service. That's all, there's no reduction. They're not sentimental. the causes of the decision are not even connected with the past. We're not in a hospital competition, we're strengthening a network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u103	The decision is what we want to ask you to end (... ) Planing. We'd like to ask you to keep the two sites, the Basurto, the Cross. What we're asking you is to finish the concert with Donostea Policia, and between these two sites to give the whole EAE service. It's a popular strategy, Mrs. Apple. And we ask you to examine the Kirghiz and other modern techniques in one of the centres of the little aurgy wounds outside the EAE. This is the Vsurto unit. It's a reference unit. It wasn't, it was. And what we can't do is delete and remove what works properly. We need a public strategy. We need to work with the Plantation. And you have to make the right use of the management of money, Mrs. ODidui. And most of all you have to think about patients so the patients can get their health care.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u105	I'll recapitulate what I said in the first interpelation. The future cause of the union of the two groups is, that of two centres in the whole state are allowed to establish a permanent mechanical heart. That's the future. That's planning, Mrs. Ubera. Public funds and public resources planning. If we don't get service together, we won't get the minimum number of hand interventions on each team to get these techniques, and that's the future. The scientific associations of Europe and America are supposed to perform the minimal operations of the workers who make surgical operations, to acquire and maintain skill, to increase and improve experience. So what we're proposing is the equipment that make the complex surgical heart, and the human team without any restriction, whether the equipment or the professionals are to be carried from Basur to the Cross, to create a bigger group. We don't take charity from hospital. We don't take any value from the hospital. The Basurto Hospital has other future projects. Our reasons are endless, founded on patients. These are scientific, looking to the future, the reasons for improving the service. And I just want to point out that we don't want to take the entire surgery to the cross, not all the charity service. It's just a carubic complex. In this hospital, all hospital services will continue to be offered, and I'll say before, but I'll remember: external contact, hospital, functional tests, electric fisiology, Cardiological, hemodynamic evidence. Changing the complex heart surgery doesn't mean the service won't continue to be of quality. He loses nothing for that. Not that he'll be deported or impoverished. Let's be serious. Investigation, even formization will win. Membership has very good chardiology services in the same hospital, without having a very complex heart surgery. And he'll follow them. You said it yourself. Our professionals are good, our services are good. We just want to improve them. And it's better to look into the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u106	Thank you. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barrius Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudads, the parliamentary member of the Society for equality, justice, and the head physician of the Society, should be excluded by certain persons in the application of the law." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u107	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. And thank you, Counselor. Let's see. We heard from the press about the decision of a last-minute decision of the valuation commission that regulates Law 12/2016. Among these issues is that the evaluation commission appointed by the Basque Government has recently decided to reject the requests of certain persons made in accordance with its request, pursuant to Law 12/2016, which is for the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights, in the context of political motivation in the Basque Autonomous Community between 1978 and 99. Some of these persons, members of the state security forces and bodies, made certain claims in accordance with the law, in particular under article 2. Well, we already know what has happened to the people who have worked in the Police, the Civil Guard, in the Ertzaintza during this time, being victims of the violence of persecution that they have suffered and the harassment that they have suffered for being who they were. That is why I ask you what the Basque Government's reasons are for rejecting the requests made by certain persons in the implementation of the said law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u108	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u109	Allow me, Mr Barrio, to begin my reply with the literal reading of a GNP that was adopted in this Parliament in 2015: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to develop policies of recognition and redress for victims of human rights violations caused by the abuse of power or the illegitimate use of police violence that have been promoted since... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... policies for the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations caused by the abuse of power or unlawful use of police violence that have been promoted since the previous legislature." A GNP incorporated in the explanatory statement of Law 12/2016 that we are dealing with today. And it goes on literally as follows: "The present law therefore implies the continuation of the path then undertaken." Continue, Mr. Barrio, the way is what we want to do, isn't it? A path that refers to victims of human rights violations caused by abuse of power or unlawful use of police violence. And it's clear, I think it's meridianly clear, isn't it? The law of 12/2016 is not a member of the state's forces and members, nor a law to acknowledge the victims of terrorism, but it is a law to confess the victims of police. As I said, Law 12/2016 is not a law to recognize members of state security forces and bodies or victims of ETA terrorism, it is a law to recognize those commonly referred to as victims of police abuse. And that is what the 460 opinions of the Evaluation Committee appointed by this Parliament, not by the Government, by this Parliament say unanimously. I use this rostrum to recognize its independence, scientific rigour and exquisite professionalism. The opinions of this committee have been bequeathed to resolutions by the Deputy Councillor for Human Rights, Memory and Cooperation. The opinions unanimously propose - and I read again textually - "the non-admission of applications for failure to find the alleged facts falling within the scope of Law 12/2016". The opinion goes on to say: "The requests made by members of the security forces and bodies are not covered by Law 12/2016, because they are not acts or violations caused by abuse of power or unlawful use of State violence, nor is there an immediate or functional link with the activity of the public authorities and the State." Allow me, therefore, Mr Barrio, to conclude with what seems obvious: the Law on Recognition of Police Abuse cannot recognize the police themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u111	Yeah. Thank you, President. It's just that it's not a law of police abuse. You will not now invent the title of the law, which is the advisor of the branch. Its first reference is a GNP. No, I'm talking about the law. So something fails in this law, counselor. Something's failing, something's not clear. And using an aphorism, In claris did not interpret. And here it is necessary to interpret this law, because article 2 of this law says what it says. First, after the object - which says what it says, that I will not read it, because I am running out of time - that: "For the purposes of this law it shall be considered a violation of human rights produced in the context of politically motivated violence that has occurred in conjunction with the following conditions: a context of political motivation, that an action or action has been carried out for the purpose of political motivation, and that it would have been possible either to participate in the performance of his or her duties or to perform his or her duties, or to individuals acting in groups or in isolated, individual and uncontrolled ways". That, Madam Counsellor, gives rise to the possibility that there are people who have not been subjected to violence by officials or by abuse of State power, but by those people, and that it has been in contexts of political motivation. You, however, are that the other day, of course, you entered the GNP campaigns, the GNP to which you refer. No, no, let's see, the law, because something fails. It is not right this law, so it seems, about the justification you make. It's not okay. Where does this law say that members of State or Ertzaintza security forces and bodies or other persons are excluded from being considered victims of politically motivated contexts, victims of human rights violations? Where does it say? He doesn't say. And it does say what I have read to you in article 2: that they may be people in those contexts, assaulted by people who were not officials, by people or groups in those contexts. And that doesn't say, it's not clear. And that is why, in fact, I suppose this situation will have a journey. Now, the journey is one of destabilizing the forces and security forces of the State. The last PNL we saw in this... people who have suffered violence from persecution, harassment; who have suffered, who have consequences for having worked in these contexts and defending democracy. So I think there has to be a serious reflection there, because that law is not clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u112	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u113	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Barrio, I think you know me a little, you know the government and what you have been defending for many years now, and I think you will never find me or minimize the human rights violations caused by ETA terrorism. I think that's evidence, and he's always gonna find me next to the victims. But this law is not the law to recognize the victims provoked by ETA, be put as it is put. There are, among all of us, all of us in this Parliament, and we have developed other ways of recognizing the suffering caused by ETA to different groups. Laws that we have included and promoted among all. And our policy on victims, Mr Carmelo Barrio, is firm and well-known. And it's also decided. Mr Barrio, I would encourage you, I would encourage you, from a human rights perspective, to understand that this law is a law that comes to protect the violation of human rights that citizens in Euskadi suffered, to make it their own. And I don't think we had to make any difference between first and second victims.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Four Garridio Knörre Euscular Group, Ciudadans, made of equality, justice, and the head physician of the National Society, to determine the transition of the condemned to the third degree by terrorism." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u115	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Sailburua, we ask you about the criteria that the Basque Government is following in deciding on the degree progression of those convicted of terrorism who are serving sentences in Basque prisons. You also said in a reply today that they strictly adhere to compliance with the law and that they follow the criterion of... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... They're serving their sentence in the Basque jails. You also told us today in a reply that they strictly comply with the law and that they follow the criteria of the Boards of Treatment, but you will know that these decisions are being appealed by the Prosecutor's Office, and in several decisions of the National Court of the last few months, of various authorized degrees, they have been revoked by the National Court, I mean, degrees granted by the Interior, and even that Interior granted a third degree against the Board of Treatment, question why you were asking the other day (?) in an interview. That is why this question is appropriate as to what criteria the Basque Government is following or is going to follow in granting these third grades. I think that these criteria should be made very clear, because I see and see a lot of confusion in relation to the criteria that can be followed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u116	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u117	(?) mahaiburu andrea, thank you very much, Mrs. Garrido. And as I mentioned in my first intervention on this subject, the criteria for the classification and revision of the prison grade are those laid down in the General Organic Prison Act, the Penal Code and the Prison Regulations. The proposals for the revision of prison grades are made by the Boards for the Treatment of Prisons, and these are collegiate bodies formed by the professionals of each prison that value the personality, individual, family, social and criminal history of the internal persons. I reiterate that these are the same officials who had been doing so before the transfer of competence to the Basque Government. In this sense, according to the law, it is necessary to classify in third degree those who – and I quote textually – by their personal and prison circumstances are qualified to carry out a half-freedom regime of life. The prisoner cannot be kept in a lower rank than his own, if the prisoner has a progression, and if he can. The treatment committee appreciates a good development. In no case can an inmate be kept to a lower degree when the evolution of his treatment makes him worthy of his progression. And in the reports of the treatment boards it is assessed whether there has been a favorable evolution in the treatment towards its reintegration. If there is a positive assessment of the activities assigned to each individual programme, it is dealt with individually. It takes into account the good use of permits or scheduled departures when they have enjoyed them, good conduct in the prison, positive participation in their activities, carrying out work or occupational activities in the centres, family support, realistic planning of the social reintegration process, positive motivation or change in the use of training activities. We therefore consider that the proposals of the treatment boards are in the sense of maintenance or progression of degree, they are motivated and based on legal and technical criteria that document the dossiers. As I have already reported, the treatment boards have carried out 330 second-degree maintenance reviews, 26 of them for prisoners and prisoners linked to ETA; 166 proposals for access to an open regime of flexibility, of which a dozen are persons convicted of terrorism. In all cases, the Directorate of Justice, which has to ratify the proposals, has considered it reasonable to endorse the decision of the treatment boards, as their proposals were sufficiently reasoned and substantiated in each of the individual files. And in any case, I would like to recall that the third prison grade does not mean freedom, but rather that it is a form of enforcement of the sentence that is the most restricted or more open mode of enforcement, and that the sentenced person must continue to comply with what is required to respect his or her treatment programme, subject to a degree of recession.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u119	Yes, Mrs Artolazabal, you parapet on the Boards of Treatment, which in fact have not changed its composition, but you know very well that the National Court has revoked the granting of third degrees to decisions of the Ministry of the Interior, precisely because it said that there were no requests for express forgiveness, and that the criteria were very lax. Even, as I have told you, the Minister of the Interior in some specific case has not followed the strict criterion of the treatment board, and I have expressly asked you whether you also intend to not even follow those criteria. You take refuge in the technical criteria, but it gives the feeling that today of your words it is glimpsed that you will not strictly adhere to the technical criteria, as well as you glimpse the words of the interview the other day in a medium of communication. I also wanted to ask him: we were very surprised that the progressions in degree, to that third degree, go in pack. What is the coincidence that all the dossiers coincide in time and in form for such resolutions to take place, as were the resolutions of that concession of the (?) Third degree in pack. Will the progressions of other prisoners who are not terrorist prisoners also coincide in packs, as are those of ETA prisoners who are serving sentences in Basque prisons? Of course, as I say to you, it is clear from your words that you are strictly not going to follow those technical criteria to which you are referring, because you also said the other day that "I would love for you to ask for explicit forgiveness of ETA prisoners, but we should move forward not to enter into a war of terms right now, which does not help." What do you mean the (?Is it not important, Madam Counsellor, that these prisoners ask for an express pardon? Is it not important that repentance be sincere? You are saying that we have to be softer with the criteria when granting third degrees, because this is what is glimpsed of your words. In short, Madam Counsellor, it gives the impression that they are not going to apply only technical criteria, but that they are going to make decisions on the basis of political convenience, and that before the reports of the treatment boards were issued, even the transfer itself, there was a political intention to give semi-freedom to ETA prisoners.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u120	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u121	From my intervention I don't know how to deduce that we're not going to use criteria... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... I do not know how to deduce that we are not going to use technical criteria. I, if you want to misrepresent my words, embarrass the debate, it is your responsibility. I have mine and, of course, I will continue to exercise it. It has no doubt that all decisions adopt technical, objective and scientific criteria, that the victims are very present when we give the third degree or when we make any decision with any prisoner, regardless of the crime they have committed. And I told this counselor, who I also think has made it clear - and this government - what is the closeness and what is the work and respect that the victims deserve, right? When he says about the National High Court, if they're going to overturn our decisions. Well, the answer is yes, of course, we can have our decisions revoked. We'll see the result - if those decisions are reversed - what it is, and then we'll talk about you and me again. Because what we've done has been a rigorous job.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u122	Thank you, chief. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interlation, Jason Aguirre Gartanodia EH Collectors to the Chief of Politics and Language, in the new economics of language, "about the Dreams of the New Arts." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u123	Thank you, Madam President. And good morning or good afternoon to all and everyone. And good afternoon to you too, Counselor. Einstein said if you can't explain anything in a simple way, that means you don't understand well enough. I shall therefore endeavour to explain this to you in as simple a manner as possible, although I understand how to speak of artificial intelligence and the higher grades of language, because I understand how important they are for the changes they are going to produce, and of all the possibilities which may extend. For I believe that we have heard of our elders several times, that we shall not know any technology of their acquaintance, because they were very great. Think of it: telephone, TV... They were enormous to themselves, and they changed their lives. But, owing to truth, and opposing our ancient ones, we have also known great changes in our own, or in my own generation; the tapes were a fantasy when we were children. And that's where we're doing the WhatsApp video calls, the telematic meetings... And now, for example, it's like magic to me that you're in the car, "Oye, Siri. Say Llámale a mother and, pea, automatic call. Or "Oye, Siri. And he said, "Cééntame algo," and his answer was: "Yo soy más de handchar." I'm very intelligent. Very intelligent, yes, Siri, very clever, but always with rhymes. But I do not think that the fifth language of Erosa in the world is, as some say, the most salty. And, for instance, here, shortly here in the parliament, as we speak, a computer will receive our words and appear in writing to receive our word. Subwritten, and, if you please, translated: in Spanish, in Spanish, in English, in French... choice. That's automatic, right? Like the neronal translator, so they'll take off our ass. With this new and written technology, for example, until further development, it's best to speak the language and clear, so that the computer can understand it correctly. But it will shut up the next step, or the next stage of technology, even though we can't stop talking about our eucalyptuses, well, the machinery will be able to get rid of it, and then we'll be able to go back again. But apart from this, the technology of languages cultivated by artificial language and intelligence has several other applications, and will henceforth have them. The languages that are not properly placed on these technology will hardly survive the digital world. In Europe, −eta has been aware of it for a long time now that −, digitalization, is taking up or adapting to changes in language. And if we look at Spain, and do not go far, their example is very significant. As you want Spanish or Spanish or Spanish − with almost 600 million talking languages, it's the third language in the world, English and Chinese after Mandarin. The language is really rich and strong, and I don't need to say that, but the Spanish are worried. Yes, very worried. And when we hear that, you Basques, who don't even come to a million talkers with the full −repet, but−, laughs at us. However, we understand the anxiety of the Spaniards, because science speaks English, because the artificial intelligence speaks English, because even the visible ones speak English. He's English at the Fanca digitalization. And the Spaniards, as they would say, "estan preocupados, moy preocupados," but ocupados to también." They're busy. The same week at the Spanish Minister's Council, a PERTE, that is, Proyceto strautegico para la recuperación y la transformacion economica, connected with language. There will only be seven PERTEs, and one will be connected with language as a sign of the importance they give it: Nueva Economía de la Lentua, the New Economia of Language, is called PERTE. Language is the state of each country and the concerns of the strategic economy, that is, important economic sectors are the important things that live on a digital transition, which will offer great possibilities. Being PERTEA means they're going to make great investments. First of all, 1.100 million euros: of these 30, even at 3%, does not reach the official languages. They seem to be in Spanish, but they're not so worried about eucaia, galego and Catalan. They're going to use the reconnaissance fund together with private investments. This PERTE project has a clean purpose: To think of artificial intelligence in Spanish and to talk, of course. But at the same time they will fortify the Spanish in science, the teaching of the Spanish, and many other fields. They took it as a national initiative. [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... Of course. But at the same time, in the science of Spanish, they will strengthen the teaching of Spanish and other areas. The Spaniards have considered it as an initiative, and we may well conclude that every language has a right to persist in it, as well as a right to economic development. Like Catalan and Galego, Catalan created a project called AIN to develop artificial intelligence and technology languages into Catalan. They're going to run almost 68 million euros for language technologies. Galegos 15 million and a half. And here in Euscadin, there is no mention of that in the reign of Arficial Intelligence. It doesn't exist. So what about us? We don't say it's just fun doing nothing. This week you brought the book book of 2021-2024 to the restroom. This is the strategy you're going to live on in the streets, home, school, factory, but even in the digital world. Within this strategy, as far as the artificial intelligence is concerned, you appreciate the recommendations made by the Basque Advice. These recommendations are very clear. One is that it is essential that the technology for eucatra should continue to develop, because it belongs to the strategic, because it will be a axis of Europe for years to come. And from that there is a second recommendation: It is recommended to specify and write the language technology plan. That's the advice you get on your strategic schedule. Do you agree with that? So are we. What's that? What have you done? What are you going to do? What kind of a resource do you think you're going to put on for that? Because you didn't mean to address it. And we know without money what's going on. A little money will come from Spain too. What are you gonna use? What's the purpose of taking advantage of the new economy of language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u125	Chief of Parliament, Congressman, Mrs. Aguirre, chief physician, all good days. The Parliament of Europe said in a resolution approved by the 2018th. "If all the languages of Europe want to avoid digital extinction, they must have minimum language resources in the digital scope." Like data, ex-lexics, verbal recordings, translation memories, corpus taged or entclopopopaedia. It's a huge and very competitive specimen for a small and less language like eupchara. But at the same time, winning this circle may lead to the rest of the Hebrew language, even though they may form a small community. I believe today that language is the day to speak of technology, which is one of the greatest challenges which society has in common with language and economy for the next few years. Language technology goal is language processing, written or verbal. The language technology terms processing the natural human language in flora (? ), it contains in itself all the elements, elements, instruments, techniques, and applications. The knowledge of education aims at the development of informal systems. So that they can recognize, understand, and interpret all their forms. Then all these instruments will affect the communication of our society, development, and economy. No doubt, then, that language is an indispensable element in the course of the world for the development of technology, industry, and advanced economics. And the most advanced countries have given the subject a strategic importance. The most powerful languages of the world are developing and exploiting technological languages, which will be played in a great measure, not only the survival or hegemony of these languages, but also the position which many countries wish to possess in this powerful economic sector of economics. There is no need to say that we Basque too, want to play that game, and when we say that it needs its place in the digital environment, we do not only mean to create and to consume its contents by euphoria. We're talking about all this vast universe of technology. For to-day the survival of languages is not only in the hands of men of flesh and bone. The technology will also bring in new talkers for today and tomorrow. We have to tell these technology that it's eucalyptic too, we have to teach them to think of it and we have to place it in front of the international languages of the eucalyptus, and that's what we're doing. And we're following the advice of experts. You mentioned a document or proposal created by the Basque Adventure Committee in a digital environment, and in the manner of action it is defined that the language of Technologien Plan must be specified and written. Formerly, from the Cultural and Language Department, we commissioned the center of the Word Department to make a technical report for Language Technology to Suspen Plan. And so it was, in 2019. From this we have prepared an action of technological languages by the hand of the Public and Autoberon Department, and of the Technologies of Communications. And this month we'll present the Board of Government. In 2021, the Euscadian Digital Transformation strategy was published 2025 Economics developments, patiences, and Environmental Department, and within that, its development... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...A strategy 2025 is published by the Department of Economics, patience, and environmental development, and within which, in the manner of its development, we must understand this plan of technology, as well as others. In fact, in that strategy, the technology levers are identified by artificial intelligence. In addition, last December, the New Year's Council agreed to the Public News of the Governor and the Digital Government's Extras, which had been introduced at the Committee of the Parliament. Between the axes of this last plan, the eucharation must be a language of labour and service, and, therefore, to work at the hands of both public and public workmen, the means and means of service to be employed and provided for. It is therefore evident that public administrations must insert languages into their daily practice, in order to improve the quality and capacity of public service. Besides, as is the case with so many other aliens, the administration may also act as a tractor, and thus speed up the development of the sector. In this sense, too, I want to remark the importance of cooperation between the departments, especially in this field of technological languages, which we have constructed with the Department of Economy and the Department of Governorship. In fact, in all the tools and services which are based on the administration and the language of the administration, the eulogy must be secured, if we want to be an Ellegated Administration. The management of the department is therefore indispensable. And the same may be said of the Department of Economics' development, in this case in industry and corporations. For in the development of these devices and software, which are being grafted into language, the intervention and knowledge of eroscal corporations is indispensable, and in this challenge they are necessary companions. At the same time, our aim is to insert into all their technological innovations. In the digital modification strategy of these, it is expressed in the strategy of language when the industry of language is mentioned, and in it certain languages are considered as technology, seekers, personal assistants, classificants, or digital dictionaries are employed in various daily activities. Understanding of unorganised text information, synthesis, classification, or every step that is made to improve the automatic translation, produces value for society, and may indirectly be applied to all the productions of a production. And similarly artificial intelligence: these applications can be key-locked to give people some advanced services and optimizing production processes and production resources. You mentioned PERTEs. Well, we'll consider those different options that PERTE makes, which we've known through the press. and of these we shall also examine, that our projects may be supplied with money, but in any case we have our own plan, and proceed with our plan. The remarkable improvements which have occurred during the treatment of speech, automatic translation, or analysis of the texts, may help in significant ways to facilitate and expand the use of the support. We have to continue to develop new tools to ensure that the euscal communities exist in the market today, and that we can consume the products that will be in the future. Voice synthesis and knowledge, automatic subtitles, voice helpers, digital services platforms, medical services, separated neuraal translators, (that is to say? ) Automatic translation or question response and dialog systems. We want them all to rest. And therefore this plan of action will have the following great end: Euscatainal Administration in general, basic languages in the transberlating manner of teleological languages; adapting and adapting marine projects from the administration by means of their ability to develop the resources required for the development of technology, and to get access to all interested agents; to reduce the distance between technology, Spanish and eucalyptic, and eucalyptic languages, so that the technology of administration and the community may be visible, in general, to enable them to perform the positive influence of these technologyes in their well-being, to produce the industrial language of the Basque Elegology, to provide for the administration, and to support the administration of the administration, so that it may be useful for the public, and so that it may be useful for other languages. This plan of Ternological languages will be dynamic and adaptable, and we hope that it will help us to discover the wants and needs of different areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u127	Thank you, Madam President. I do my own way and you do your own way, but I think we've said the same thing. That's what I think it's all sad −, because I've said to you before: We do not say that he is doing nothing in this country. We've got very important companies and college projects in this area that are being very public, and thanks to them, but I don't know how to say a lot of things like −. I'm not getting anything from Euskadi Next, and there's no project or... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... see − I don't know how to say a great deal of −. We get nothing from Euskadi Next and no project or infrastructure. You've got BAQ Center, who has a lot of sponsors, but we don't see any projects at all. And this week, on the other hand, after presenting your strategy to improve it, we, like the Basque People, made a definite proposal. And I shall read in words: "The American "Worry and Language" insists on the Department of Eusk0 to launch in artificial intelligence a complete strategy that is centered in art and language, and for that purpose to promote the union between the centres of the investigation, the necessary technological infrastructure and the fund for assistance." This was proposed, as far as we were concerned, except for some definite projects, which we have never seen any general strategy anywhere. And we also proposed that our union between the research centers of today's research should be urged by fun, because we have −zu, as we said in the technology of languages, the high-level research centers, those in Europe, but each of them is often on his side, working and developing very much similar projects. That's what we proposed to improve your strategic agenda and to place our language in other European languages, but you said no by the government parties. No. More than 2030 science, technology, and development on the planet was not the digital development of the sustain and the strategic mission to operate artificial intelligence, we also proposed to receive it, which was accepted by the organizations of the government. But we're still there, on that level. And that taught us, in a graphic way, where we're still at, where's the fun. Because today, as I said, we agree on your diagnosis with your Berbes, but we... we believe that we lack leadership and actions, and also investments and projects. Catalan and gala are working on it. What's up? When do we have a souscal, right? Like Catalan. In our opinion, I'm just saying that I didn't get it right. It's not like a town where the intelligence in our village is gathered together and settled in one direction or the same direction. He has not been able, but we think he is capable of it; he lacks vision and leadership. We think it necessary as a people, and even if we do not act as a people, do it as a public service, for this service is necessary. People need to talk the language they speak. But beyond your words, or beyond that prediction you have made, we see no pure, solid strategy. I think it's very simple to understand, and to explain it as I've tried today. And then, to finish, I got a sentence that you sent the other day, and I mean here. You said: "Today we have a chance to take a step together." We are ready to take one step, two and eleven more, and also to give each other and all these steps to support the eucalyptus. And, to put it simply, this is the way it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u129	Congressman, Mrs. Aguirre. The other day, like you, I also made a diagnosis. And now I'll try to explain some of the strategic parts and certain projects we've planned. This plan, in the first stage, wishes to affect eight strategic differences: An electronic administration, education, euphoration of adults, health, justice, tourism, culture and security. And in connection with these strategic areas, 27 marines or projects will be developed, and I will mention 8 here. First, please return the automatic translator to continue to improve measurement. She has 2300,000 visits every day, more than a million in a week. The translators of the council and the Blues are connected, including the Parliament of Navarre, and several other institutions are also connected. The number of downloads is very high for handhelds. To improve the automatic translator available to all users in 19, we're training with new corpus from now on: the French, the Basque Organization, the Corpus, and the other two different languages, as far as the Corpus are obtained. The Web page is recently provided for synthesis and transcript, and in future developments. At present we have Michael and Mine, and soon there will be four other voices, including Ménena's, Michael's daughter's daughter, transscription, and translation, with writing a text to show the translation. Second, the Data Office. A site or platform will be created to provide data that are the foundations of artificial intelligence, models and tools, and so re-use them. And even in this case, it'll be necessary to cooperate with the Department. The purpose of the project is to take the first steps to construct an open and webbed date system of corporate resources, and by which means to build prototypes of new solutions based on artificial intelligence, seeking opportunity to investigate new companies. The third project, anonymisation of personal data. IVAP is working on the development of an automatic tool to manipulate and replace personal data in memory of translations... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... in the development of an automatic tool to which anonymize and replace it. This data is for any of the companies outside or for the user? ) They'd give them the chance to develop or improve automatic translators. Four subwrites and automatic translations in visual content. The project is started at work from 2019 and has three main goals: to acquire automatic composition of euphoria and youth, and, once acquired and refined, to make automatic interpretations from the eucalyan to the Spanish and the Spanish. Five, the Krea World Research Project, this project that's going to be built on eucalyprated, and this design project, and the center of words, will push it with the help of the Eusko MARY. Six, the medical return, is developing the automatic negating translator of the clinical Osatric texts. It's in the valuation phase, and then it's going to be established in the clinical Osar station and the tool will continue to develop lines. Seven, we are the judicial translator-determination and establishing. Complimentary experience and normal language of the Jurital Contributive Translators will take advantage of the memory of the translations made in the Administration of Justice, in order to execute the negotial translators of the Spanish Office. This instrument will be brought into the hands of the workers, assistants, and legal agents of the administration. And eight, creating a corpus voice for the command voice project. The free collection of audio recording data for this Mozilla Foundation initiative will be created, opened code. These are some of the specific functions which we will soon accept at the Board of Government, and, as I have said before, as far as we receive information, we shall examine what place these and others can have in this project at PERTE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-04.u130	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one and seventeen o'clock at noon.
