ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. I'll let you know 21 on the subject list. that the dot is withdrawn. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "The Unhausa Rajalbbiz Eubertarians made to the head of Economics and Ogas, an influence on the progress of the Eukadical economics in the general 20ths of the Escanomian Esinomia." Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u1	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good morning, Mr. President, chief of departments, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. Subaz, good morning. At this meeting today, we have a question addressed to you by the Foreign patriots. When we started conducting the problems of the Pandemia and the confidence of the economic agents was taking place, Russia, who had invaded the Ukraine, has completely changed the panomama. He who has had effects and influence in several countries. We even discussed and examined at the whole meeting yesterday. And a real one is on top of Escal economic growth. By the effect of that EukMUk war, he's reconnaissance of Eescal economic growth, where in 2022 the raw product is expected to be %4,5, unemployment, %9,5a, and 16600 jobs will be produced. And although the numbers are distant from the term of crisis, because they are the rates of growth, the well-beings of the Ucraine war have reduced 2,2 tenths of the increase of our previous preview to 2022. So, as this situation is, we'd like to know if the Eubertists would like to know the growth revisions... The impact this review could have on the general funds for 2022 Eukadicus. Thank you in advance for your explanations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u3	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Berrojalbuz. "Aute todo quiero trasladar calma, aunque soy muly consciti de la situón global novita aello." When we thought we were recovering from the economic effects of the Panedemia, the war begins. And the consequence of this is plainly produced in our economists. That's why we've had to review the economic growth prevention of 2022-2023. The new scenario takes into account the lower dynamism of the economies of the environment, the rise in prices, the armed conflict in Ukraine, as I said, and the uncertainty that economic actors have. As a result, we have, as you said, lowered the growth forecast for 2022 from 6.7 to 4.5. It is also true that part of this downward revision is prior to the beginning of the war in Ukraine. It was precisely striking the downwards for Germany of eight tenths, a country with which Euskadi maintains an important commercial relationship. The lack of supplies justifies this lower dynamism, Europe's main engine. Therefore, even if the war confrontation had not occurred, a downward correction was inevitable, although the scenario of conflict has accentuated it. However, all that has been mentioned so far relates to the evolution of real GDP, regardless of inflation. And precisely high inflation is one of the characteristics of the current situation. Prices rise rapidly and intensely. The prices of energy and then other raw materials did so first. War and supply problems have fired them even more. In principle, the rise in prices is expected to be more significant in the first half of the year, and moderation in the second measure is expected to restore normal supply. At this point it should be remembered that the budgets for the year 2022 are based on nominal GDP growth, not real GDP growth. The new macroeconomic scenario maintains the high forecast of nominal GDP, compared to the 9.3% increase expected previously, the current estimate of nominal GDP is 8.8%. Our budgets include contributions from the outside parliaments of EUR 11,003.9 million. The final closure of contributions in 2021 of 10,830 million. This means, that the increase is necessary to meet the budget figure, it must be 174 million euros in absolute terms, and 1.6% in relative terms. Objective, of course, very achievable, with a nominal growth of 8.8 as I mentioned for this year in 2022. The Euscataian economy has strong social signs, and public affairs can no doubt endure the necessity of the Eucadi.... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... The Euscataian economy has strong social signs, and public affairs can no doubt endure the necessity of the Basques, and besides, we have a beautiful mattress of liquor. And I'll tell you more. Just a week ago the Rating Agency Standard & Poor's has improved in our rating by raising it double to negative with a stable perspective, two links above the state. It justifies it for our credit quality and our resistance to a stress scenario. Euskadi, according to this agency, continues to have exceptional liquidity and enjoy strong access to external financing. Despite all the uncertainties in the international context, Standard & Poor's believes that our economy enjoys stronger socio-economic indicators than the state average. Therefore, in spite of everything, I conclude as I have started: calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u4	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the Congressman of the World Series of Maddalens, concerning the present economic political condition of the President." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. I'll just sit back and take my indulgence. In education we made a great deal of agreement, which has been confirmed in this week, a town agreement. We've all left something aside, we've discussed it with a lot of long, active, expert men, and we've made a big deal in education that is a strategic column for this town. With care, ambition, loyalty, and memoir. It's been 40 days since the invasion of Ukraine, no one now doubts the need for the monographics we're going to do in this Barnake Country Force. And I invite him, as in education, to be humble, ambitious, responsibilities. For the signs we received yesterday are, by the way, bad news. When people need security, we didn't find any deal with sewing attitudes. The Socialist Party told us the plans of Madrid, it's fine, but what's the problem with making an arrangement here? Yesterday we were told we didn't need a plan, but why don't we have a plan? Because you don't have a plan? Because you don't want to make plans with the Basque People gathering? Perhaps it was a lapsus, but yesterday your party took the hand which was extended to the Basque People, except the Union. And I, Mr. Urkullu, have stretched out my hand over and over in the name of the Basque People in the United States. "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, For 12 months now, you haven't made a round with the members of the legislature, and a lot of things have happened. And you say you want the protection of the parties we're here to make a crisis plan because the situation demands that the dynamic between government and opposition is over. Meanwhile, you've introduced plans that already exist, no new proposals. You talk about the economy of the war, but it looks like it's only said to make the citizens press their belt. Or a plan, a road, I don't care if you're willing to make a definite road. That's why I want to know what you think today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning, Mrs. Iriart. You're asking me about current economic political situation. If I have to say anything about the political situation of Euscata and this legislation, it is this: We have not yet completed half the law, we have a government of the whole majority, and I am grateful to all of us for our efforts to get to harmony in order to be fruitful; and so we will continue. On the other hand, I have complete confidence in the state of human economy in the model of permanent human development. It is my opinion that we shall be able to overcome the state we live in on the basis of this model. I'll read you the rating that we've received to base that opinion, and the chairman of the Sub-Azus. Euskadi's ratting is up, and it's two degrees higher than the state's. The report says: In the year 2021, Euskaki improved the predictions because the economic recovery after the pandemia was higher. And together with this, Euskadi's power management and Eukakia is able to get the budget balanced every year in 2023. That's because of our example. Anyway, in this world and age, anything can affect us and anyone else. On this account uncertainty and initiative are the two words which define my opinion of the present political and economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u9	Mr. Urkullu, I also wish to send the people safe and quiet, but it is clear that we are living an exceptional situation, and that we must probably manage this state of instability for a long time. We've given way to a discussion for responsibility, and we hope to have the same size. We'll take proposals for responsibility when we meet with you. Ambition, responsibility, protection economy, Mr. Urkullu, defence economy in front of the war economy, diagnostic −, honest proposals, compromises in this urgent position, in order to secure the people, to hope... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... −Ours−, good proposals, in this urgent business of sewing settlements, in order to secure the public, an offer of hope. Hope is not waiting. I heard the mayor of the Redery the day before yesterday: "Waiting is not waiting. We must build it by thinking and acting what we want to happen." I still offer you the ambition of hope and the will of public agreement, Mr. Urkullu. He offers you the Basque People because, as we did, 15 days ago, we want to give him some good news in this urgent situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Until then, I haven't used the word hope, trust, word. And you, in the presence of uncertainty, are security. And, in the presence of uncertainty, I have used the initiative. And action, as a whole. We've set up two separate plans: to take care of the refugees and help them. On the other hand, we've been in touch with the most recent sectors: We've had a special meeting with the first sector, transport, industry, social corporations, klusters, or the Society Table. We have introduced several undertakings in the President's conference, as well as in the State and in Europe, in order to consider some of these measures; some of which have been considered. The equipment has been continuous. We've recruited a projectary investment based on families and preventives, a new line of liquor, and we've agreed with the Involuntary Forums. We're still studying the new economic and social complemental sizes. In spite of the uncertainty, and, thanks to the initiative, we have confidence. We've been acting since day one. We do so in the light of the possibilities of the European Union's temporary State aid framework; this must be kept in mind. Within the framework of the agreements adopted at the Conference of Presidents, in collaboration with the institutions and in close proximity to the sectors concerned, with specific measures: contingency plan, cluster and social economy measures, savings and energy efficiency programmes, new liquidity lines, strategic investment plan. Despite the uncertainty, we have confidence. Trust in our model of commitment to social balance and public services. With your agreement, we have reinforced our budgets in Health, Education and Social Policy. Confidence because we have a solid foundation, our model of sustainable human development, which has proved to be socially balanced and economically effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of María Jesús San José, the Basque Socialists of the World, Plange, Housing and Transport Commander, in the improvement of the Euscadian public and private park, with the influence of resilence, transformation, and resilence in Europe planned by the funds of Europe on the planet." Mrs. San Jose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. President, the Vence Prefector, the Chiefs, the congressmen, all good days. The European funds represent a great opportunity. The Socialists would say that this is a decisive opportunity for the modernisation of Europe, Spain and Euskadi. It is EUR 75 billion, part of which will reach the Basque Government's coffers, dedicated to investment, reforms and policies in which Europe has understood what are going to be the vectors that will define the competitiveness of the economies in this new green and digital economy in which we are fast-tracking. The Socialists believe that the Next Generation fund has been the greatest advance in this century for European integration, not only because of the amount it mobilizes, but also because of its objectives. The Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, regulated by Royal Decree-Law 36/2020 of 30 December, approving urgent measures for the modernization of the public administration and for the implementation of the plan itself, is a project that requires the involvement of all economic and social actors at all levels of government and of all resources of the public administration. Euskadi Next is a country programme aligned with the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, presented by the Government of Spain. This programme, the Euskadi Next programme, is structured around eight major components that reflect reform and investment priorities. I'm going to focus on component six, urban habitat. And, from the point of view of urban habitat, the challenges facing the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, framed by the three major transformations that characterize the global, energy-ecological, technological-digital and demographic-social scenario, require the promotion of resilient, sustainable, intelligent, inclusive and safe cities and villages where no one or any place is left behind. We are engaged in a historic process of transformation to correct our imbalances and also to strengthen our opportunities. It will be with us, Mr Arriola, that the impact of these funds on areas such as the development of urban regeneration policies and building rehabilitation policies will be undeniable, and this is an important area of action for your Department, and you have already said the reason on many occasions. And it is that the lack of soil in the territory makes it a fundamental bet to look inside the cities and regenerate those spaces. Among the objectives to be achieved with the allocation of these funds are those mentioned above, so, taking into account these circumstances, and given the importance of this European Union initiative, we ask the Minister of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport the following question: what impact will the European funds provided for in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan have on the improvement of the public and private residential park in Euskadi? That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u14	Thank you... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... in the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience in the improvement of the public and private residential park of Euskadi. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u15	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u16	Thank you, President. Ms. San José, indeed the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan approved by the Government of Spain, outlines a road map to repair the damage caused by COVID-19 through the modernization of the economy, the recovery of economic growth and the creation of jobs as a key to sustainability. Housing is one of the axes on which this plan is based. In this area, there are a number of programmes, such as those relating to rehabilitation activities at neighbourhood level, programmes to help improve the energy efficiency of housing, or programmes to help build housing for social rental in energy-efficient buildings. All are programmes that are aligned with sustainable development goals, and aim to achieve primary energy savings and increase the use of renewable energy, thereby reducing CO2 emissions to the atmosphere. It should be borne in mind that the residential and service sector accounts for 15% of total greenhouse gas emissions in Euskadi. And it is important to have tools that allow us to reduce, to the extent possible, that carbon footprint and its effects while improving the quality of our homes and neighborhoods, and with them the living conditions of our residents, In Euskadi we have been propagating the regeneration of vulnerable neighborhoods, in the drive for the rehabilitation of homes, and the promotion of public rental housing; but there is no doubt that the funds allocated by the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan will help us to deepen this. In urban regeneration the plan has allocated for Euskadi a first remittances of 16.8 million euros, which come to add to the resources allocated by our department and to intensify the actions that we are developing in the municipalities of Bilbao, Lasarte-Oria, Durango, Eibar and Pasaia. In terms of rehabilitation, the arrival of funds Next will be a qualitative leap, our commitment to promote the renovation of the Basque Housing Park is clear, and we have raised the amounts of aid and improved access conditions to reach more people and families. In the first phase we will have almost 40 million euros more, and in the next phases we will be able to make more funds Next for the regeneration of neighborhoods and also for the rehabilitation of houses. We have before us a unique opportunity and challenge to make rehabilitation a strategy that benefits both climate neutrality and the recovery and social transformation of peace as the pandemic. And we will put at the service of the citizenry the tools necessary to be able to carry it out. The third axis of Community support is the programme of aid for the construction of socially rented housing in energy-efficient buildings. In this chapter Euskadi will have 48.5 million euros: the first 24.2 have already arrived, and in the year 23 the rest will arrive. With them we plan to strengthen the promotion of public rental housing in about 1,000 homes. It is clear that European funds are opening up a window of opportunity for Euskadi, and that they will have an impact on the improvement of our residential park, strengthening the energy efficiency of new buildings for social rent, increasing the potential of housing rehabilitation aid and promoting the regeneration of degraded neighbourhoods. In short, benefit for all citizens, but especially for the most vulnerable social sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u17	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. I want you to know that the 20th point has been retired. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the Congressman of the Podemos-IU team made to the president, to guarantee the prices due to the first sector and the carriers for products and services. "My dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President. As you know, the food chain, the producer, the carrier of the first sector, the deliverer... and this law receives in its 26 and 28 articles, when those contractors are made between the social residences of the same Autonomy in the same member, the government of that member of the Renaissance is responsible. In our case, you'd be in charge of the state of government that you're running, that you're making the right price of these contracts, that they're filled with prices, and that if they didn't, they'd be in charge of inflicting punishments. But if we look to reality that the subjects and carriers of our first sector are working in the galleys, that is to say, the incomes they get don't come to cover the cost of production or service. In yesterday's plune, if you look at what was admitted here, it's in some way implied that your government isn't doing enough to set up fair costs, and they are fulfilled (? ) to ask for it. When you see this, it's a matter of how long. When our peasants, fishermen, will be assured to transport themselves with just prices which will properly cover the cost for their activity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, it's yours. [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...to cover the costs as tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Hatch. EukoMia has had a constant communication with the first sector and the transport sector. Thanks to these meetings, we've shared the diagnosis of status, and we've arranged the measures to apply. In the first sector, we've formed the tool conveniencies of the Food Chain. Its purpose is to quantize the cost of production so that agents who are employed in the food chain can remix them. By this means it is proposed to encourage other actions; the increase of the field inspectors, the increase of grain, the search of corporate alternatives, or the investing and investing in innovation. In the case of transports and the logistic sector, we've created a table to direct contact between organizations and sector. One of the fruites of this table has been to decide additional measures, and the sector strike has been cancelled. We are therefore acting closely and co-workerly with the sector, following the decisions taken in Europe and state, and examining new measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u23	As I said in my previous intervention, it is the responsibility of the Government to establish fair prices, to ensure compliance and to punish those who fail to comply. These measures cannot be demanded – it has not done so on this occasion, but on some other occasions – for example in the Madrid Government, when the Basque Government is competent, when it is between food operators with head office in Basque. He has commented on the meetings with the transporters, with the first sector, but the truth is that it is not until 16 March, when the supply crisis and strikes have already broken out in Euskadi, when they have met with this primary sector, and the creation of the Food Chain Observatory is announced. But this observatory is actually quite a few years late, and today, today, we do not have this guaranteed issue. I say that it comes years late, because the Government could have launched this observatory, this behatoki, since 2013, already with the Law 12/2013, of the Food Chain, also with the Royal Decree 5/2020, of Urgent Measures, or even with the last amendment, with the Law 16/2021, which improves the Law of 2013. However, it has been postponed, it has been postponed for many years the creation of these mechanisms that control that prices are fair, and that sanctions be imposed on those who do not (?) fair prices in contracts. I therefore suggest that you meet urgently with trade unions and sectoral agents, who already have some data on fair prices worked by entities such as... will know Lurgintza or (?)Lurrai, there is already an advanced work on this. And I also suggest that you set up a team of inspectors to ensure that these fair prices are already being respected. What we already know, we had to create enough bodies. The question now is: when, when, at last, they will be effective, and when our hauliers, our transporters, our farmers will be guaranteed fair prices for their activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u25	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Mrs Gorrotxategi, the Government is maintaining ongoing communication with the primary sector and with the transport sector. We are aware of the impact of European legislation and state legislation, and of your question, which you have doubts about the effectiveness of the aid that the Spanish Government presented on Tuesday with the second vice-president at the head. In any case, I would like to remind you that these measures must also take into account the temporary framework to which I referred also in the previous question of aid from the European Union. Companies in the European Union are being affected in many ways, both directly and indirectly, and the current geopolitical crisis is having a particularly serious impact on the agriculture, food industry, fisheries and aquaculture sectors. The selective and proportionate application of aid control in the Member States by the European Union serves to ensure that state measures effectively support businesses and workers affected by the current crisis. It also ensures that the internal market is not fragmented and that it is kept in a level playing field. I think it is worth waiting to know how it is set up and to evaluate its results. In fact, the Basque Government has made a first overall positive assessment of these, according to the national plan committed to the conference of presidents. In addition, we have set up the Food Chain Observatory, and new measures have been proposed under the law that expressly prohibits the sale of products below the cost of production. We will step up the inspection tools for the implementation of this law, and in collaboration with the outside parliaments, we will push agro-ecological transitions in accordance with European regulations. We have also set up the transport table with the participation of the institutions and the sector. In any case, as you know, the Ministry of Transport is drafting the bill to apply the principles of the Food Chain Act to the road haulage sector, to ensure the profitability of work in the sector. We're willing to listen, value, contrast and put... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... of the Food Chain, to ensure the profitability of work in the sector. We are ready to listen, value, contrast and implement the complementary measures agreed with the sectors and companies concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the president, Joseph Manuel Gilegas, a member of the popular-Ciudads, a pact of future education." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lehendakari. Last Friday we were able to see that what we had been reporting for weeks, that is, that there was a prior agreement under the table between your parliamentary group and Bildu to move forward with the new education law, unfortunately, was true. Beyond the shameful lack of forms and the breaking of the most elementary rules of parliamentary courtesy that had to be transgressed in order to make possible an agreement that strained even the relationship with its own governing partner, the agreement has been a clear victory of EH Bildu's educational thesis, as evidenced by the triumphalist manifestations of this political formation in the various media and in the seat a moment ago. That is why I ask you: how do you appreciate, Mr Lehendakari, that Bildu's thesis has prevailed over those of the parties that support the Government on the basis of the agreement on the future Basque education system?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u28	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Gil. Mr. Gil, you valued the deal. The important thing is that with the deal we win all of them. And I'm not worried or concerned about the attribution of success. It is common to try to put the agreement into the balance on the part of everyone. But in reality it is a shared heritage at the service of the transformation and improvement of education, which is what is important and what unites us. No one has imposed anything on anyone. Four different parliamentary groups have reached an unprecedented pact that brings security, trust and hope to the educational community and to Basque society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, unfortunately, we don't all win. Unfortunately, this game has been won by Bildu, because you have allowed it. You have chosen a partner for the new education law by making a mistake that I would call historic. With this agreement Bildu will decide the future of Basque education for the next generation. Since the beginning of the Bildu process, it has set three objectives: the imposition of the euskera - called it immersion -, the merging of networks and the control of education by the municipalities. Only three days after Bildu presented his thesis did the PNV education spokesperson say that only edges with Bildu were missing. We denounced him. We were told that we were overreacting and that it was not true. But everything we said has been confirmed: there was a previous pact with Bildu and the government parties have bowed to their demands. Bildu has won by imposing more Basque, although it is already difficult to overcome the current situation. But Bildu needed to put it white on black in the new law by giving a new twist of nut. Perhaps in this you coincide with Bildu's theses, Mr. lehendakari; but I hope you are not so... is not so pleased with your government partner, who has gone a little tow in this whole process. For a few days we had hoped that the Socialist Party could balance the agreement. And we very much appreciate the majority of the amendments tabled in the draft; to the point that of the 42 amendments we had planned to vote yes to almost 30. But, of course, then came the final agreement with Bildu and greatly worsened the initial draft, that is, the imposition of euskera on teachers, on centers if they want to obtain funding and even on parents in relations with centers. Are we going to end up generalizing the famous stone backpack for children who speak Spanish to each other as in the colonies of Zeanuri? Bildu has also won government parties by raising concerns about the future of the concerted. Bildu wanted a single network. And within the calculated ambiguities of this agreement all the centers will be integrated into the Basque Education Service in order to receive funding. You have given them very concrete conditions that do not marry with regard to the autonomy of the centers, with which the mouth is filled. Is the PNV, its supporters and its voters comfortable with this position in which the agreed one can remain, which is the option that currently chooses 50% of Basques? Bildu has also won the game by imposing an intense presence of municipalism that they control. As you slowly prepare your arrival in Ajuria Enea you have placed education in the hands of the party that aspires to replace you. But there is still hope, Mr. Lendakari. This process has been very intense and somewhat chaotic, but it was only the first round. After the summer we will have the truly important party: the process of drafting the law. And seeing the fragility of your agreement, we trust that you will rectify and bring to this House the law that Basque society needs to put quality and results at the heart of the agreement. With this law you play your legacy, Mr Urkullu. You yourselves claim that you want a law for an entire generation, and it's good if so. It is, therefore, perhaps the most important law of the legislature. And it would be a shame if you ended up being remembered as the lehendakari who delivered the education of a generation of Basques...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u32	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u33	... Pick up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u34	Mr. Gil. Time's up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gil, four parliamentary groups, more than 80% of this House. You didn't want to participate. The door's still open. And I reiterate that our bet is an educational system that allows the student to master the two official languages of our country and at least a third. I reiterate that the concerted network is not threatened. On the contrary, this educational pact guarantees its funding over the next two years. The new education law needs and works the agreement. And my words are of gratitude and gratitude... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... funding for the next two years. The new Education Act needs and works the agreement. And my words are of thanks and appreciation to the four groups that have all renounced maximalism and worked with will to agree. The aim is for all pupils to acquire communicative competence in both official languages, adapted to the actual situation of each educational institution, taking into account the starting situation, and to ensure at the end of Compulsory Secondary Education the sufficient practical knowledge of our two official languages - Euskera and Castilian - as well as sufficient knowledge of at least one foreign language, with an adequate level of communication at the end of this educational stage. Four years ago you were in agreement with this paragraph and you signed it in this Parliament. Today the paragraph is the same, you have changed. You are going in a direction contrary to the decisions taken by the Basque families. Course-by-course, more and more families choose model D for their daughters and children. This course has been over 80% for the first time. We are convinced that this percentage will continue to rise. Do you think all these families are wrong or that someone can impose that decision on them? You say the network is threatened. I read paragraph 68 bis of the pact, which reads: "The provision of the Basque public education service will be carried out through public and concerted institutions". I assure you that the agreed centres have welcomed this pact as an opportunity and not as a threat. I invite you again to read the integrity of the agreement, to look for meeting points. To reach an agreement, one must have will. Education continues to need as much consensus as possible and we will not fail to do so. The end of the Covenant of Education, is to subdue all the Disciples to Easca, Spanish, and at least a third Language. It's the purpose of the education agreement to maintain the natural identity of our network. The compact school is not threatened; on the contrary, by this agreement, the financial level is guaranteed for the next 12 years. The four groups of the legislature have rejected maximalism and permitted the agreement. We appreciate that attitude towards education and the agreement. We'll continue to make an education agreement, and the door, Mr. Gil, is open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Amaia Martín, the Greyish Mistto, a member of the Vox team, who's a member of the United States of the United States, a member of the Decree, who's not responsible for an outlaw for the last two years' health crisis, but for an internal estimate of the management of the Pandemade." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. For months now, Jonan Fernández, who was director of the political LABI, expressed himself in this same Parliament ready to carry out an evaluation of the management of the pandemic by the Basque Government, both internal and external. But today we continue without any news of this external, technical and impartial assessment that the opposition has repeatedly called for and that Vox has defended as absolutely necessary to know what has been done well and not, and of course, to improve. We do have a grandiose title surprise report: lessons learned. A sort of complacent self-assessment, a memory made from the inside, from the command room. Hence the conclusions are the predictable ones, the ones that wanted them to be the ones who commissioned them. That is why we ask you, Mr Lehendakari: what is the reason why the Basque Government has opted for an internal assessment of the management of the pandemic rather than commissioning an external and impartial study of the decisions taken in the last two years to deal with this health crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs Martínez. The Government has prepared, as you yourself have said, a report, a report. The Government has prepared a two-year report on the management and governance of the pandemic, and we have learned lessons for the future, for this Government and for the following. I hope that there will never be a repeat of a situation like this that we have lived or are still living. And we have not opted for an internal evaluation against an external one. They are not counter-tools, but complementary. You mentioned a phrase in the document, and if you had continued to read, you would find the answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u41	Mr Lehendakari, of course, we have read the report from above, I can assure you. Let me therefore give you a brief summary of the conclusions of the memory made from within your Executive, the one I have previously told you about. The Basque Government reacted quickly, and Osakidetza successfully faced the deficiencies of PPE, respirators, masks; so much so that it even covered the needs of other regions. His cabinet owes much of the decisions taken within the Inter-Territorial Council. The LABI was an oil raft and its plans Bizi Berri what we all needed. Vaccination was a path of roses, and Euskadi brilliantly resolved the legal vacuum that characterized the management of the pandemic, despite the fact that the judges have not lived up to the government's decisions. This is what is indicated in a summary of this report which has been forwarded to us. Certainly a suit tailored to those who commissioned it, Mr. Urkullu. They accuse part of society of having oversized the perception of the negative. They also criticize all those people who maintain the hypothesis that their cabinet had not taken any action endorsed in reports that could stop the successive waves of contagion. It will not surprise you that we consider this Government to have taken an assessment from within, when the entire opposition demands an impartial assessment and from outside. And it's even less so when the... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... very unserious that this Government has put forward an assessment from within, when the entire opposition demands an impartial assessment and from outside. And it is even less so when the conclusion of this report is a praise to its management, despite the fact that the virus has led to more than 6,000 people and the future of entrepreneurs, workers and citizens of all kinds and conditions. We wonder whether an external evaluator would approve that the Basque Government has been characterized by demarcating itself from the general criterion, that it has established its own levels of risk, different from those of the rest, to call elections in full management of the second wave of contagion. We wonder if an external evaluator would approve that in hospitals there was no PPE for all professionals, that the healthcare staff were manufactured in the PPE with garbage bags, that during that first outbreak in Txagorritxu they would be advised not to wear masks in order not to cause the panic of the patients and visitors. We are convinced, Mr Urkullu, that an external evaluation would pick up the worrisome spectacle of the first days of vaccination in this region. The resignations imposed and the cessations of judgements in the protocols can only be attributed to his Government. We are convinced that an external evaluation would be very critical with the handling of the information you have shown throughout this time, with appearances in this House just to answer what was interesting and thus provide headlines to the media. And what about the legal section in your report. They again charge judges without redress in their sentences and without self-criticizing the reasons behind the various legal soups received by their Government. In short, there is a lack of reports to support the hardness of certain measures that you have taken. An external report, Mr Lehendakari, is what we need. It would be much more objective, critical and constructive. For example, a memory made from outside, from the epicenter of knowledge...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u42	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, I mentioned earlier that you quoted a phrase from the document, as you say in the justification of your question. And I told you if you kept reading, you'd find the answer to your question. In any case, you have read another sentence and made your considerations, as if they were from the report itself. In any case, I insist, I read it textually: "This is not a definitive assessment, among other things, because the pandemic is still going on. It is a part of an integral evaluation that will have to add an inward and outward look, which will also have to include the analysis and study of other areas of this health crisis." This is what the report says. The external study commissioned to the University of the Basque Country by the Department of Health to evaluate the performance of the Basque health system in the response to the pandemic has been carried out and presented to this Parliament. We have done so with the clear intention of learning lessons and maintaining the spirit of continuous improvement that characterizes Osakidetza, the Department of Health and the entire Government. All information and evaluation initiatives have been taken from the Basque Government itself. Throughout the pandemic, we have published with transparency all information regarding the evolution of the virus, its incidence, the responses offered, the revenues, the tests carried out, vaccination data or results. The Health Adviser has regularly appeared before this House, sharing an assessment of the situation and responding to all the questions raised, Mrs Martínez. The Department of Health has requested a report from the University of the Basque Country to evaluate the response of the Basque health system, which has been presented in this Chamber. The Basque Government itself has developed the memory Lessons learned for the future after two years of governance and management of the pandemic. We have presented it and shared it with three universities, Eusko Ikaskuntza and Jakiunde, also with Ararteko. We have asked these impartial institutions for their own input. I do not know whether any other government, even of an autonomous community in which you are co-governing, has carried out any kind of analysis. In Euskadi, from the Basque Government, we have taken the initiative of internal and external self-assessment with the aim of improving. And also Basque society evaluates us, and in October 2021 81% of citizens say that the care Osakidetza is giving to people sick by covid is good or very good; the note is 7.5 out of 10. The Quality of Government Institute of the University of Gothenburg assesses us and places the quality of the Basque Government among the highest in all European regions in the management of the crisis of the covid. The Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health evaluates and places us in 2021 as the community with the best public health services of the State. Without any complacency, Mrs Martínez, we will continue to analyze our public service from a self-critical and constructive perspective. We will do so from self-assessment and external evaluation, always with the aim of obtaining lessons learned to further improve the service we offer to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the Member of Parliament for Carmélo Barrio Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, in the new political situation of the Western Sahara." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The question is put for two reasons. This question is addressed to you as the lehendakari of a Government that has two sensitivities in the area of support for the Saharan people, after the incomprehensible voluntarise that the President of the Government has given in defending the implementation of the UN agreements for the resolution of the latest pending decolonization process in Africa, which is that of Western Sahara. I also ask you this question because you are the lehendakari of a country in which a very important part of your citizenship is emotionally linked to the Saharan people. Councils, congresses, NGOs, families, associations of friends of the RASD, universities share a close relationship with him. Fraternities of localities and territories, reception of children in the Peace Holidays programme, visits to refugee camps are issues that are well known to many people and that are in addition to the efforts of institutional budgets for humanitarian aid and cooperation of many administrations, in addition to the political position in support of a solution within the framework of UN resolutions. Not to mention the copy... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... two humanitarian aid institutions and the cooperation of many administrations, in addition to the political position in support of a solution within the framework of UN resolutions. Not to mention the exemplary work of the non-governmental organizations that have historically had Western Sahara in their objectives of support and cooperation in the defence of human rights, through the reception of Saharan human rights defenders. This very Parliament, you know, has an Intergroup, Peace and Freedom for the Saharawi people, which has been performing very intensely for three decades. The members of the Basque Government have also shared with the Intergroup visits and impulses to many cooperation projects and actions. And we have been with them, with members of the Basque Government of many legislatures already, in the Sahara. I would like to know your position, Mr Lehendakari, on this issue, on this leaflet, on this incomprehensible move by the President of the Government. And know what you can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u46	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, the word is yours to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u47	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. Barrio, good morning. The opposition for which I am asked, the position of the lehendakari, is that we will continue to maintain respect for and demand compliance with United Nations resolutions. That we will continue to maintain the commitment to the international legality emanating from these resolutions, and that we will continue to maintain the exemplary work of support and solidarity to the Saharan people in different areas and strategies of cooperation. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your promise is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u49	Thank you lehendakari, thank you for your words too. The House will discuss the matter in a forthcoming plenary session and will position itself. But I want to ask you, as lehendakari, to involve something more than you have said. That it is involved in the requirement to rectify the new position of the President of the Government. This is not geopolitical, it is not a state agreement, let alone the agreement between the parties that the UN demands for the end of the conflict. On Wednesday, the President of the Government stood alone in defense of his incomprehensible initiative. He was unable to explain the scope of it, because he has no explanation. He has not explained to the Saharans, to his representative the polysary front why Donald Trump's follow-up on this issue. Earlier I referred to the commitment of Euskadi to the Saharan people. Many Saharans live here, where they have found a home in exile. Where their children were born, but not where their parents were born. And that is why something can be done from here too so that the Government, the Government of the Nation, will prevail the wisdom and respect for the desire for freedom of this occupied and ill-treated people. Morocco does not have the sovereignty of Western Sahara, then it cannot grant them any autonomy. A pragmatic policy on this issue, the only thing that will generate is pain for the Saharans. And many are here, among us from the Basque Country. Morocco does not have sovereignty. What the President of the Government proposes is an unbearable solution for territories that have been invaded militarily and illegally occupied. Mr. Lehendakari, I don't know if you'll mind, but you talk to him sometimes. I ask you to convey to him the position you really have in this case, and to ask the President of the Government to rectify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u51	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr. Barrio, I used to talk to Mr. Rajoy sometimes too. I will continue to maintain that the Saharan people deserve and need a peaceful solution to a conflict that is long and unwarranted. I will also continue to maintain the need to redouble all efforts in favour of dialogue, cooperation and agreement, in accordance with international law, the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and its own resolutions in order to achieve a solution to the political conflict in Western Sahara. I will continue to maintain that all parties must refrain from any act of violence, provocation or use of force, and that the efforts of the United Nations to reach an agreement between Morocco and the Frente Polisario must be supported. Morocco and the Frente Polisario, as well as neighbouring countries, including the Spanish State, the European Union and the International Community, must cooperate in this endeavour. On this basis and respecting the right to self-determination of the Saharan people through a referendum, a just, lasting and mutually accepted solution can be achieved. I will quote the unanimous resolution of the United Nations General Assembly of 14 December 2019, which reaffirms its responsibilities towards the Saharawi people, and its inalienable right to self-determination. This unanimous vote demonstrates the commitment of the International Community to the legitimacy of the question of Western Sahara as a matter of decolonization. Arbitrating a political solution to this conflict will provide a factor of balance and stability for the region and the European Union itself. For the future, it is essential to overcome the logic of confrontation, and to open up spaces for collaboration and cooperation that benefit all reactions in terms of peace, human rights, security and social and economic progress. He also asks me about the Basque Government. The Basque Government will continue to maintain and support the solidarity and humanitarian initiatives promoted by Basque society, aimed at the Saharawi people. The Basque Government shares the efforts of the United Nations to try to facilitate an agreement, I insist, between Morocco and the Frente Polisario, with the aim of finding a solution to the political conflict in Western Sahara. And also to promote a just, lasting and mutually accepted solution by the parties. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, Jason Aguirre Garitagondia EH Collectors made to the president about the officer of the Basque Football Selection." Mrs. Aguirre, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone, good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. First of all, I want to thank you. Because when things do right, you have to say it. And I'm very pleased with the urge and protection that Euskal Country University has given to him. I'm doing that, too, and I'm learning a lot and lots of things. And we have a great deal to discuss there, for example, diplomacy, paradiglomaticia, prothopomacy. We've checked various cases... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... and there we have a great deal to discuss, for instance, diplomacy, paradiglomaticia, prothopomacy. We've reviewed the different cases, one of them is very nice and significant, Erojon, the paradyloma of President Aguirre. My dear, you know, the delegation spreads around the world, created a choir of choirs, and, as Martin U was very well asked, it is another way of making a chorus of songs home and feeling new, more effective than a hundred speeches from the President, although this was the President Aguirre. But President Aguirre was also a gambler from Athltica, and when Manu de la Sota proposed to make Euskadi football team, he received the idea with satisfaction and insisted on it. In Europe and America he had made quite successful tours in Europe and in America, in order that the world might know there was a people here who wanted to be free, because like a song, even a football game shakes his heart, and even today. We remember now that President Aguirre's initiative. If ever there was any later, Mr. Urkullu, why would our descendants remember you? Why do you want me to remember? And then, Mr. President, what are you going to do to make our people known to the world by Euskal Football Selection?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Aguirre. Thank you for your first words. And I don't know what the Basque people would want to remember in the future-I don't know if I was the player of the football team or why. However, sports and sports are the only huddles in the society of which a people can make itself known among the nations. That's how we believe it, and it's in our government program, Mrs. Aguirre: We will strengthen the protection granted to the eucalypices. In addition, the support of high-level sports and teams which compete amongst the nations will be strengthened, as they are elements of projecting Euskalitz Basque Countrymark outside, so we say in our government program. And so it is agreed also between the Jest Party of the EU, and the PSOE, with this end: in sport and culture, we open the means to promote the international delegation of Basques. You, Mrs. Aguirre, know as well as I do what the procedure is to guide the officialism of sports systems. This government has long provided the entire support of the euscal tenures, to advance on that road which is steep; A technical assistance, a legal and political one. Full support. Unfortunately, in the last few days, we've learned that the FIFA and UEFA will not move from last summer's resolution and will not lead the discussion and decision to their ancestors. It's not good news, of course. If at this point the faith could see there's a chance for sport to go to court in arbitration, and if he decided that the opportunity was viable, then it would be funk − will be offering him full help as it is up to now. If it's against our decision, we can respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u57	Actions are required, but sometimes words are required. And I haven't even heard a single word from you in public about it, and against it. You and your institutions spread the red carpet to Selection in Spain, to play San Mamès for the first time after the franchise. I asked you then, and you were ready in the box to listen to the Spanish himone. Pandemia messed that up, but you did it for her. And now, as you've said well, UEFA and FIFAk − again, Estalka Football Selek didn't even want to argue. The doors are closed, and you didn't say anything in the breeze. To confess sleuths is as important as Aguirre's season, as for Scotland, as for Wales. That's why Spain doesn't want us to have our official selection. They do not want the name of our people to be opened in the world, and then the people to join it. They don't want that. And you didn't say anything, Mr. Urkullu, UEFA, and FIFA just closed the doors and you haven't said anything publicly before. How will he remember you? Like the president who wanted to bring Selection to San Mames in Spain? Like the president who acted on the ceremony? Do you want me to remember it like that, or do you want me to remember it as President Aguirre and give Euscal Selection strength?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. That's a mess, Mrs. Aguirre, to plan it as if it hadn't happened. In speaking of me, and in speaking of this subject, I invite you to play 1998, and to examine whether I took part in the Act of Sports, or not, and to examine what my attitude has been, not now, since the '98th time and year of the year. And we'll continue to work in support of the official eucalyptic cults, self-absorbed, combined with faith. We've been escorted by the Basque People's Sports, Halterophilia and Surf Federation. At this moment, swimming, carism, sprima, squash, ajedz, piragism, and the religious faith of the table-tenisisis. Finally, as soon as officers succeed, we will continue to promote the public spectacle of our faith and our elections in all −Galls and football. As a matter of fact, he had played Euskadedi and Costa Rica's boys in the reign of pandemy, and he played the part of the Euskal Selek Women on the Balque Country Women's Clup contest against Argentina and Venezuela. We could bring examples of other sports... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... He played Country World's Cup contest against Argentina and Venezuela. We could also give examples of other sports: The Kayasurf Championship of Europe in the Sopel, was Bilbon, and the Battle of the World Series was organized in the Padel Championship or Gech. These are particular actions to make our country known among nations. It's not even like an election, either. With these, and with the same end, we have also developed many other undertakings. We encourage Balsque Team to participate in euscal sportsmen in international competitions and Olympics. Bilbo played European championship in Rugby, the exit of the International Gastian Ironman or of the Tour next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Presidency to the First Vice President and Chief of Security, the confidentiality of the example which regulates the arrest of the Border." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u61	gentlemen: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ercorek, not always, perhaps, not for the most part, that you don't accuse me of easy or repulsion on the edge, but lately the completely unproported arrests, which are practicing the edge, are quite arbitrary. We've met with Silvia's case in this parliament, the edge-house where he had been beaten by the video we saw. In the case of the two young people in San Francisco, they are in the case of two banks, and you have driven them out of service yourself, by the anguish of the case. The day before yesterday we knew the case of Fátima: that they have punished a borderer for the two claims of injury. We see the mobile Brigade practice their arrests: and his knees sometimes round his neck, which is strictly forbidden and extremely dangerous. We need to know, Mr. Erkoa, how the edge interacts in arrests and what protocol it has for that. In respect of the right of knowing in the defence of the basic human rights of these men, we must know the regulations from the control which this parliament ought to make, with this part of the reality or reality which I am drawing here to contradict. But you don't want to, you say that these protocols, these instructions, are completely confidential, and I'm asking you what you want to hide, on whom or on whom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u62	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u63	Thank you. Mr. Azuga, I'll give you a piece of data that you may not know, and which will place your explanation in a context. For ten years between 2012 and 2021 there have been various litigations against the edge, various persons who were proposed to each other, and whose different institutions had been set up in their relationships with the streets of violence, excessive, disproportionality, and so on. Among them were sentenced only to 1,5%, 5%. You always like to put the focus on them, it's a strategy, but I've got to take care of all the others besides them, and I've got to take care of the other 99s too, and I have to put them in value. The questions and documentation requests you have proposed here, concerning the police documentation, have received three kinds of answers for the past ten years. You have sometimes been given the requested documentation without any difficulty, and sometimes very rarely, because the documentation was denied you, because there were serious and important reasons, which were really connected with the safety of reason. And most of the time you've got a chance to examine these documents as the law predicts, and as the rule foresees, you've always been given, you can't get a copy. As you have made use of this possibility on more than one occasion, even in this very legislature, I of course do not question it as a possibility. The only question is its applicability in this case, its applicability in this case being a document referring to the practice of arrests, you will understand, that if the four winds are disclosed seriously compromises the viability of the document, the relevance of the document, its effectiveness, to serious detriment to the safety of persons and property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u65	gentlemen, yes. Thank you. You tell me very little cases are punished, Clarus, if people do not know how to practice an arrest, what are their rights, what they are, what they are protecting; You must recognize these protocols so that people know what they're going to report. There are two problems here, Mr. Erkoreek, about confidentiality. One is that you plan a collision between the rights of the people and the efficiency of the police, and that collision is false, and if you have to resist it, you always have to appeal to human rights. Otherwise, it is the intense and independence which influence the people, the people, the people. And the second section, the second problem, is lack of transparency. A lack of transparency, even the intermediary betrays your department, wish... [[Microphone Off spoke]] Because you don't even tell him, at least sometimes. You'll let me see this document, and then you'll be at it in the 113th article of the Basque Act, where you say you won't give me a copy of these instructions. Let us see what the rule says in that article 11.3: "The members of the legislature will be able to take proper notes, as well as collect copies of documents." Also get a copy of documents... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... "...will be able to take proper notes, as well as get copies of documents." Also get a copy of the documents, which the Rule of the Parliament says. And it's true. I'll go to the department residence and ask for these protocols, I hope you'll show them to me. And I'll also ask for copies, under the protection of the Rule, Mr. Erkoek. And I hope you'll let me get those copies, proque you won't let me take notes until now, and I hope you'll give me those copies, or if you don't give me them, then we'll see what measures we'll take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u66	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Arzuaga jauna, look, the forms of coercive relationship between the police and the citizenry, including that relating to detention, are regulated in numerous norms of our legal system, from the European level, in the European Code of Police Ethics of the Council of Europe, to a law approved by this Chamber, the Police Act of the Basque Country, passing through the Law on Citizen Security, the Organic Law on Bodies and Security Forces. There is no lack of rules in this area. Therefore, the darkness, the opacity to which you refer, the alleged absence of a known regulatory framework and known references that may support spaces of impunity do not exist. There is a clear regulatory framework that judges and courts apply every day, every day, giving rise, moreover, to a very broad jurisprudence in this matter, which I am sure you know, and much of it also in relation to these matters, which is also binding on Ertzaintza and the security forces. Therefore, that problem that you raise does not exist. We will rigorously implement not only the resolutions of the (...), not only the Rules of Procedure of the House, but also the resolutions issued by the presidencies on these issues. Don't worry, you will be allowed to do what is set out in the internal protocols of the Ertzaintza, don't worry, always trying to reconcile the responsibility I have and that the department has to guarantee the fundamental rights and freedom of people with their right also to access administrative information in the strict terms in which it is permitted and lawful in the regulations and resolutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u68	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Unze and the EH Collectors, made to the president of the Second Vice President and Work and Empedugu, to maintain the balance of the two languages which are official in the preparation of the profession." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u69	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Mountain. The profession, if it were not for the name, and, well, if the web page were not in two languages, we may safely say that it is an organization of Estrematura, Madrid, Errioxicus, or Murcia; It doesn't look like a Basque institution. It doesn't look like an organization looking at our society. He does not fulfil the characteristics of the Basque institutions. This, on the one hand, is the sacrifice of service, and consequently the guarantee of the rights of the language of the people; and, on the other hand, of the offer of euphoration. The indicator, that is to say, a thousand times scientifically demonstrated, namely, that the euphorum is a determinant for emmenulability and socialization. How, then, is it possible that the legislative power of the people, the maintenance, the maintenance of the people, and the facility of an institution, which aims at ease, should be entirely corrupted? How is it possible? Is that the balance between the two languages, Mrs. Mountain? Is that a Basque institution, Mrs. Mountain? Only 585 of courses, one, the only one, the only one that can learn from it. 2022. Twenty-one years, 21st. Depends. HPS will have a plan to normalize eus use, contains a document, but Profession works on nothing. HPS has a plan to normalize the use of the support, but this government and this department rejects the introduction of plans in business. I have an impression, and the Social Party seems to mark this government as the policy of language. Look, Mrs. Mountain, you've had an initiative, you've had a very welcome attitude to develop and start and encourage equality's plans. But you haven't had the same attitude with eucachar in the profession. And both of them are rights to men; and this government seems to make a gradation between these two rights, in relation to equality and education. And that's what a government has to do? Levels between rights? For the only thing that comes to pass is if you're a woman and you're a Basque and you're twice crushed, and at least you're making a step towards women. But do you know what's worst? And it's happening, and this isn't an invention, because it's getting more and more common in our country, unfortunately. You go into a inn, ask for a coffee or whatever it is, and then you ask how much is it? That it was hard to understand. And to have to listen to terrible for the sake of euphoria, for the sake of action, in many cases. And in the end, the Basques are beaten up and discarded in our country. And that's happening in the diary, it's happening. It's not normal, is it? We have been in this house for years, years, for the euphoration of the forms which the profession offers, especially in the domains of the instinctive; we have tried to open the means to ensure the capacity of euphora communication in these areas. I mean, our plan wasn't to hold out for 585 of these courses, we didn't ask for it until now, we didn't ask for it. Our plan was not in language profiles, C1, B2, A2, was not to concentrate on the formation of the eucaments centered on the profiles. No, what we've been proposing is in the form of the profession, and in the formation of the profession... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... the culture of the eucalyptic euphorium centered in the profiles. No, what we have been saying is, that in the formation of the profession, the means of acquiring the eucharistic capacity, i.e., the form of the sociomatical field, and the fundamental capacity of communicating with the application of the operation of the host. It's the only thing we're focused on. Thus the citizens, who work in these districts, will be treated by the citizens as a means of securing their social services, and in order to facilitate the social condition of the workingmen, but we have not succeeded in doing so. The only thing we managed to do was take a test in the surveillance field, the frame of the contract with the HABE, in the formation of its functions, 2022. We do not understand that in the year 2022, which is the state of the euphora, there is a painful movement, that is to make a slight step for years and years, while the profession does not provide any preparation for a profession, to continue on various professions. Ah, and in the end we have seen it for years, and have seen examples, in which the preparations for service have been provided for Portuguese, English, or other languages of communication, but not for euphora; we have seen it. The young men are already supposed to have a knowledge of euphora, because they have learned it from it; it is supposed. But the most ordinary thing would be to offer professions with euphoration. It is supposed that it is determinant for the newly comers to integrate into society, and so it would be the most ordinary thing in so many professions to introduce the preparation of communication with these forms of life. We're not talking about the profile, are we? No. And start the COMBI project in Europe. This is where we had the experts, and they explained it to us as a project of COMBI. There is a power of acquiring the powers of language without subduing all the territories of language, and with a new mode of innovation, with new methodology, and so on. It is also supposed that the class of forms in which the professions are organized at least in respirations ought to consider the characteristics of the townships, the characteristics of the eucalyptic townships, because you are extremely fond of planing soligious fields, but you have not done that either. We have also seen it, and we see it is, that when it requires a few steps from different fields, it tends to exasperate the profession, and to justify it, instead of taking seriously the subject seriously, and instead of treating it with care, as the moment and situation require. I mean, generally, if a man goes to Profession, you do not offer this course with satisfaction, and we are in a breath, or whatever it may be, it is said: "There is no demand. "It's a very rare request." And therefore those who give the name must then refuse to learn it, or there is no professor. But if there's no offer, how are we gonna get the order? And if we don't train teachers, when will we have trained teachers? When? But the question is, Mrs. Mountain: Occupation, what will the government do? What's he going to do for Escala? What is he doing to offer his form for euphoration and to insert it into the eucalyptic form? We'd like to hear from you in the word of today that you're going to give precise measurements, but, above all, we'd like to see the exact measurements in 2022.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u71	Good morning, everyone. Now, Signora Recbeka Ubera, the profession will support and support the preparation of eucarate lectures, because this government is engaged in it, and that in the same conditions of young training, there are those who can attend to the same conditions, and fill up the squares which are offered. That's what's done, even in youth, and what's to be done. For that purpose, we've doubled the resources in the budget, but after all, it's the students who decide. And, yes, I can assure you that language will not be an obstacle in getting a job here in Euskkadin or in improving its own employment. Language can't be a nuisance. The liberty which the citizen chooses to choose language cannot be limited, and the conditions of acquiring professions, as well as preparation, are the same in the two official Basque languages. Besides, not only the eucalogies which HaABA offers, but also the courses of the profession are given. You have offered some data, I offer you the reals at the end of the two main calls for training courses for the period 20-22. The courses for the unemployed have been 2,496 in 98 centres, and none have so far been in Basque. For the employed, there have been 6,535 courses in 130 centres, four of which are teaching a total of 11 courses in Basque, Basque and vocational training in the Basque language, which has also been one of the issues you have commented with concern as well, logically. And of the latter, in particular, about how to relate in Basque in the workplace when you don't know much about Basque, at least to make a minimum of conversation, of attention to the public, commercial Basquera, which is also... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... how to relate in Basque in the workplace when you don't know much about Basque, at least to make a minimum of conversation of attention to the public, commercial Basque, which is also another concern, because it is an area of social relationship where we want the use of Basque to increase; and practical application to relate in Basque in work of home help service, which you also mentioned side-by-side in your intervention. The latter, by the way, was a consequence of, as you have rightly pointed out, an initiative that you yourself proposed. And one last point. We know that there are centers that although they offer courses in Spanish in the area in which they are located, very Basquedun, they can be taught in bilingual or Basque, if the student accepts it. It is true that I cannot offer you concrete data on this variation, but it is a reality that is given in the courses. These are the real data Lanbide has and I can offer you. And linguistic reality is also what it is. Despite the great effort made in these four decades - from the Law of Standardization to the current Law of Basque Public School that has allowed the Basque to spread - the use is much smaller than we would all like. Knowledge is much broader. It's true, but I haven't used it yet. And that is an issue that occupies and concerns this Government. And that's also why the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy sets out the plans, and each department also drives our own. But it is the reality, the same reality by which training centres for majority employment do not offer training actions in Basque. When they do, it is in relation precisely to the Basque, but in a perhaps indirect way, as I have explained before. But in the general subjects, when they offer it, they do not complete the necessary number of students to impart it and are therefore forced to resign. Note that this is the opposite of what is happening and has been happening in compulsory education, where there has been a growing demand on the part of parents, of families who have chosen their children to be educated in Basque, and the centres have been gradually expanding the supply in Basque. And that is the fundamental reflection that we should have in this Parliament: Why are there so few people who want to take the training courses in Basque? But at the moment, when we are in full transformation of our economy, beyond the emergencies that the war in Ukraine may be generating for us, the companies that are demanding us are very concrete technical profiles, very specific, among those that do not place between their preferences or their emergencies precisely the languages in general and, in particular, the Basque language. I'm talking about Basque companies with deep roots in Euskadi. They ask us to speed up the diversification of courses and bet on innovation, for rapid training in new technologies. Profiles that are being demanded a great deal in some sectors that are growing unstoppably in the economy, but they don't speak exactly about languages. And it is true that the Administration must ensure attention in both official languages. Also in the field of training for employment, of course. That is why what we have done in this Parliament has also been expanding, in fact doubling, the budget that we allocated to this from the budgets that came from the 20th, the 21st and now from the 22nd. And that is where, in the budgets, I can express in a clearer way, in the face of this inquiry that you pose, the commitment of my department and Lanbide to continue to encourage, encourage and insist. I, at my previous stage in the Government as a Justice Advisor, also try to push for a trial in Basque. I looked for a judge, I looked for a prosecutor, I looked for a room where everyone was Basquedunes, I made an agreement with the Bizkaia Bar School where there was a group of Basquedunes lawyers, we looked for a lawyer who also spoke Basque, we tried to look for the parties and it was impossible. And look what we're trying to do. Therefore, sometimes there are things that we would like to make faster, be in a more natural way, a little accompanying the euskaldunization of the Basque population, but they are not, and that is the reality we face. And so, what I will never account for in this House is forcing anyone to form in Basque or Spanish if they do not want to. This Parliament, with its included group, has just taught everyone how to work on linguistic consensus with the educational pact. I am very proud to belong to a party that has always gambled through the agreements, which has actively participated in achieving all those shared soils that have allowed today's Euskadi. And you just did it for the first time. And you should be convinced, Mrs Ubera, that this is the right way, the way of agreements and the way of consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u73	Look, Mrs. Mountain, you will not force anyone to form them, to collect their preparations, but you force them to form their youth. That's how you force the people, and that's how you address the people. Let's not go 70. 80. Repeat the same mistakes in the decade. This is not only the language of the people to guarantee their rights, but it is a policy for socialization, inclusion, and organisation. And for this purpose, it is the policy and the measure of the construction of the system. And we need policy for the new arrivals, and we must consider this profession as a matter of eucatitude, yes or no. Look, I'm staying with your engagement today, I can't stay with you to guarantee it because you don't guarantee it, it's not true, it's reality. But look, I take you to confirm it, now we need measures. But unfortunately, you're beginning to justify yourself and say again that there's no demand. But how will there be no demand offer? Finally, it's on that crazy wheel, and that's the only thing that's got to be cut off with the nicest crazy tyres. In the first Education, in the Second Education, we step forwards in knowledge, but then, if there are no four walls of the school to use the eucalyptus system, how can we use it to the euca? And in that sense, the world of work has a terrible field to do. And there, Mr Bilartz, you've got jobs in Hezik. You mentioned the reality, and you mentioned the demands and how many schools and even those schools... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... You've got work to do. You mentioned what reality is, and you mentioned how many schools there are and how many schools there are and how many schools it's offered in those schools. I'll give you an example. January 2020, Higher. High school, all courses of youth. Breathlands, lots of villages, respiratory vents on the plateau. From UEMA, both college and school and profession, it's written. What did you say? What did you say? "Then you do not consider what you ask of the rest according to the sozyllustistic field, nor do you consider the least of them. And, you see, in this sense, there have been steps in Europe, and more than one language, and in countries where the language is diminished, to acquire fertility, to inclusion... because we have two official languages here, and not the only one, because you always compel us to do everything in one, because they are here to the first and second class, yes?... some projects have been directed there, and especially from the beginning of the sensibility of the field, in order that the services should really be of quality, and even those workers, I shall repeat, in order to direct emigration and socialization. So there's a lot to do. And the profession must make its steps, its bold steps, and cannot go on for years and years without doing anything. Look, we're all going happily today, putting on our shoes and running. We'll run for the cradle. All right. I'm so glad you're all doing this kind of thing. But, actually, this year, personally, I'm not very motivated. I'm not very sorry, though I know that I'll be gone, I'll be moved, I'll drop my tears too, and I'll get excited. But beyond such undertakings, that they are very well and necessary, either without shoes or slippers or heels or without tobacco, which every one puts on with his shoes, or which every one wears, is the least of all, beyond esthetics, beyond esthetics, and beyond fine words, we need politics. We need language policies to live on and not live on. We want to live in the Euskex. And in this the role and function of the profession are indispensable. And we need precise measurements. She's running well, the Euscarce is fine, pretty words are good, the agreements are fine, but what for? What for? I can see why: I want to live on my own. And in this country, I want it to be possible to live in the land of the eucaia, in order that the eucalyptus may have a future, and not to become the eucalyptic of a ghetto, and to be excluded from an Indian reserve.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u75	Mrs. Ubera, I'm the Labour and Employment Advisor. It is true that language policy, as well as equality policies, are policies that are across the Government as a whole. And, in fact, we implement them through plans in every area of government, with conviction and determination. But we also have to start with a diagnosis of reality. And the reality is that Lanbide, who is only ten years old, is an organism that consists of different origins, where people working in Lanbide... Precisely, I suppose your fellow members will tell you that we are immersed in a process of transformation precisely so that Lanbide can offer an active policy of quality in Euskadi at the level of the demand of the 21st century with everything necessary and with roots in the territory. That's why we're also transforming offices, that's why we're also transforming the way we relate to citizens, to businesses to respond to needs. And, of course, the workload in Lanbide has been so impressive in the last 12 years, because we are the only employment service in Spain that, in addition to making active policies, we manage benefits, that people have also not had time to euskaldunize. And I find the complaint you make about Lanbide's workers very unfair. I find that very unfair. And I will tell you more, in Lanbide we design the courses through a committee, at least since I am a counselor, through a committee in which the social partners who want to participate in the Lanbide Council participate, which, as you know, not all social actors having seats on the Lanbide Council, as well as on the Social Dialogue Bureau, go and sit down. And there's the employer and the unions. And together with Lanbide we designed the training. That's the reality. Therefore, we are immersed in a profound process of transformation. And I hope that with the future law of the Basque Employment System we will be able to definitely improve Lanbide's human resources and we will be able to make the most of all the training given to those workers, who are passing through Lanbide permanently right now, and that has a very negative impact on the quality of the work they can do, not because they do not want to give it good, eye, but because everything they learn ends up in another department, not in Lanbide. So, I want you to understand a little bit at what point we are at. Because before I have been other people also carrying out this responsibility. Therefore, that accusation you make that the Socialist Party marks the policies of Basque. Man, what I can tell you is that the Socialist Party, playing life, has developed the Basque self-government and today's Euskadi has the signature of the Socialist Party. And while we were voting and making the Euskera Law of Normalization of Use, the Basque Public School Law, the seats of his political formation were not in the commitment to the construction of this country. So, I think there's a certain difference. And when I try to talk about the Euskera and the Socialist Party, look. Therefore, we, as I say to you right now, are continuing to bet on training in Basque, meeting the real demands. And there is a formation given in Basque that is the one that responds to the demand of reality. And then also... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...euskera, responding to real demands. And there is a formation given in Basque that is the one that responds to the demand of reality. And then also, Mrs. Ubera, we're an employment service. And I believe that in the 21st century too, if we want Euskadi to remain competitive, he will play a role in the global world in which we are now, in the radical, rapid transformation to which we are being subjected; the fundamental thing is formation. And those who know the best about the training they need for this competitiveness are the entrepreneurs and it is the workers, the representatives of the workers, Mrs Ubera. Languages are obviously important, especially to communicate with us, and then we share with you two languages of our own, of course. But as I say to you, Lanbide has some difficulties that come from his birth, and I work to improve it, and I hope that Lanbide in the future, when we complete this process of transformation, will be able to meet the training needs in this country in Basque, Spanish and any language that is needed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Joseph Manuel Gilegas, the popular team of the Ciudads, a member of the Second Vice Presidents and Staff and Mayor of Eplegus, about Euscadian unemployment." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-Lehendakari, labour market problems are at the top of the list of concerns of Basque citizens. And it's a concern that since last year has been on the rise. This concern is well understood if we consider that we have in Euskadi a youth unemployment rate of 17.9%, and some municipalities like Portugalete have rates of 30%, Santurtzi 35, and Bilbao itself has 31%. To deal with this problem, the Basque Government launched the Berpiztu plan in a drum and platter. "A new renaissance" you said, said Mr Urkullu, which, among other objectives, sought to achieve in the five-year period 20-24 25,800 jobs for young people. However, according to their own data, to date only slightly more than 8,000 have been achieved. Last Tuesday, 22 March, a meeting of the Governing Council of the Berpiztu programme took place, and we were surprised that with this situation, in the note issued by the Government there was no reference to specifically addressing the issue of youth employment, the issue of concern to Basque citizens. That is why I ask you: how do you value the contribution of the Berpiztu programme to the specific objective of reducing youth employment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u79	Mr Gil, the Berpiztu programme is a programme that reflects the different actions of the various government departments precisely to revive the economy, it was one of the main commitments that this coalition government when it was formed. Reactivating the economy because we came out of a pandemic that had paralyzed all economic activity and clouds were very important. Therefore, we have to keep in mind that Berpiztu starts from a first exercise 20, which only has a quarter, and therefore, we would have to better analyze the year 21 to get to know the data well. And therefore, the forecasts, taking into account these two issues, these two nuances, have been far exceeded. The unemployment rate of the year 21, the closing rate, was 10.7; but then the reality came to us with the latest data that was 9.9. As a whole, unemployment as a whole is therefore doing well. And with regard to youth unemployment, the data you have given shows that youth unemployment, if compared to the rest of the population, has fallen much faster than other segments of the population than I too would like us to see a drop in their unemployment, for example: women, those over 45. And go ahead that this is a very high figure and that we are very concerned about the government, and that is why we are working. But the descent has been much faster. Therefore, the shock measures of the Berpiztu programme are intended to mobilise, encourage 25,800 jobs. In 2021, which was the first full year, he mobilized, encouraging 5,605 jobs. And in the year 20, in that fourth quarter, 2,519. Therefore, we can say that in the year 21 we were 34% more than expected. And this year, in spite of the current dramatic circumstances, we hope to add 6,963 boosted jobs, and thus get to be above the goal pursued by the Berpiztu programme.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u81	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, Mrs Vicelehendakari, for your answer. According to Young Business Talents' latest report, the future of work is a concern of almost 50 per cent of young Basques, and 85 per cent of them say they would be willing to leave Euskadi if necessary to find work. I wanted to talk to you today specifically about youth employment. Indeed, there are other aspects, the employment of women, the employment of those over the age of 45, which are very important and which do not actually have good data. But I understand that the answer you give me to my question is how you value the Berpiztu plan; for I understand that you tell me that well, that you are in it and that you are in it. But look, the youth unemployment data we have is not for you to do any self-congratulation exercise, self-satisfaction. I believe that they are rather to embarrass any government and my goal is not that you feel bad what I need is that you actually put the batteries on because you make plans and plans, you tell me about forecasts, twist the numbers so that we actually see that there have been improvements in some aspects, but I repeat, the reality is very crude. 18% youth unemployment, Mrs. Mendia. What are you going to change to deal with this situation? In other words, it is not enough to say what was already planned and the forecasts they are going to do, I need commitments on new things, because this is an unacceptable rate. The Berpiztu programme, frankly, seems unambitious to me, is worth as an example that you have set yourselves the goal of lowering the overall unemployment rate by 10% at a time when we were at 11.4, and we have already told you several times from these forums. After living the worst of the pandemic, they are not very ambitious goals. But I encourage you to face the problem in another way, not to conform. What they have done so far we believe is not enough, I think they have to rethink the issue, and ask themselves if the Basque Government could do anything more or more to help the more than 20,000 young people who, at the end of their studies, find themselves with the closed doors of the labour market and which represent a real human, economic drama... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... do something more, or quite more, to help the more than 20,000 young people, who at the end of their studies meet the closed doors of the labour market, and who represent a real human, economic drama; and at the end of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mrs. Mountain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u83	Look, Mr. Gil, besides I don't think you just got the prospect of what Berpiztu is, I can tell you what new things we're doing from my apartment. But I'm going to give you a consideration. We are not happy with the level of unemployment in Euskadi, but let us look at other autonomous communities in which you are participating in the Government, and with non-minor responsibilities. And yet, they have youth unemployment rates or any other segment of the very high population. I'd say it's unbearable. Therefore, I will tell you what we are doing new, in addition to the specific policies for young people, such as Lehen Aukera and other similar ones. We are doing a mentoring program with SMEs and micro SMEs so that in those critical positions of companies, there is a generational relief, supporting us in the relief contract, so that companies do not lose that knowledge and young people access to quality work. We have launched the virtual office in Lanbide, through which all people who so desire will receive guidance. We are also creating an employment ecosystem that we have connected to the ecosystem that has created the UPV, and we are working on it together, because we want it to be an intelligent environment of meetings and coordination of agents and information, to provide services and generate contacts and employment opportunities. Therefore, we are working with all fronts, offering new paths for young people to retain talent here in Euskadi. I understand that you from the opposition, like to always see the half full bottle, see all black. But let him know that this government does not stop. We work side by side with the entrepreneurs, with the social agents, who are the ones who have the best test. And for example, we have also launched a (...), which with 40 hours of technological training, responds to technological profiles of programmers, regardless of the academic training one has, provided they have the right attitude. Therefore, we are opening paths.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the Wild Houseer and Legrand EH Collectors for the Second Vice President, and the Chief of Staff and Empeduguy, concerning the activities of the working conditions of domestic workers." Mrs. Houseboy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u85	Yes, thank you, and good noon to all. Well, good morning, good noon. Mountain chief. We're asking you to ask this question about the staff of your house. And I'd like to start doing a little historical. In 1988, Bogtan, Colony, 1988, became the first congregation of the workers of the Latin American household, and this day became the international day of domestic workers. They had two targets. On the one hand, it's to be spectacular. And they took a step on that, among other things, because they got the international day we're talking about because of a long fight. But besides this, it must be said that there is no obvious change in regard to those who were demanded at the time. Over 30 years of that 1988, and we still have to talk about legal voids, jackals, and a sector full of advanced genera. Not to mention that class and coloniality is a sector of work that's really touching. 80% of the workers in the world are women. And here, if we look to the Euscal Autonomia Edi, El Salvador, Honorus, and the women of Nicaragua are particularly women who work in these works; women who have been obliged to escape the poverty or violence of their countries. And where do they end it? Well, in this work sector, among other things, extrajerjia was the cause of one law. And that's one of the points they've often reported. You too, your government organized a first congress two years ago. And it was there that we spoke of the necessity of a laboring convenius, 1889. as to the adaptation of the treaty, of risks and of temporal accidents, of the establishment of conditions, and of the exclusive rights of intimacy, as well as of the other. And at the end of this congress, it was said that beyond the year 1889, with an application of legality and a designer, we could change a lot of things. And that's why we ask you, Chief Mountain, what you intend to do to turn this situation around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u87	Well, I believe that one of the strongest steps in recent years has been the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, and the work of the labour inspectorate on these tasks. And soon, we will also present a programme that we are developing (...), as far as domestic workers are concerned. Not only to be able to form them and have a qualification, but also to flourish and dignify their work, and improve their working conditions. But the main problem, you pointed out, is labour legislation, which is still unapproachable to them. And that's where we have to keep working. And it is true that there have been changes that invite hope in recent years. For example, I would like to highlight the unemployment benefit they received in Spain as a result of the pandemic and which protected these women workers, in particular from the lack of activity. It's been the first time - an important step. But the exceptional situation of these workers will have to end, as the European courts have reminded us, since when the Ministry of Labour ratify ILO Convention 189. That will be the important step, the substantial step. It is not a minor issue, because it would be applying the general regime without specializations, it would mean the equality of this collective before social protection. But I believe that not only is that necessary, it will also have to be resolved how it is conditioned, how its working conditions are regulated. Since the signing of a collective agreement, in this collective, is quite unworkable when we are talking about private employers. So, I think there's a lot of field to work on, and also... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... It's pretty unworkable when we're talking about private employers. Therefore, I believe that we have a lot of work to do there and we must also do so with digital platforms for which there are also female workers who provide services at home. It is therefore also that other front that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u89	We have discussed so many disputes on this subject as to bring about several points you have mentioned, but we have also spoken of those which may be made here in the Euscal Autonomy. In the meantime, Osalan was shamefully rated by renewing a former guide in the accident. We talked about the need for a action plan. But as for example, the introduction of equality into the law of things which we have not been able to attain. Yes, the question has been created, the point of satisfaction, and I should like to emphasise the importance of the profession. Because it's the space profession that can make the public mediation before intermediary agencies that don't have a day's control. And this has been the request which has been made more than once from this legislature. So we ask you to go deep in that road too, Chief Mountain. And to conclude with a collective conviction, I believe that Lab has just made a way to hope, knowing here that the situation is difficult, but that the intermediation of what you can do as a government will be indispensable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u91	As I told you in the first round, I am aware of the problems that domestic employment has with regard to other groups of workers, and one of them relates, fundamentally, to the lack of collective bargaining, and therefore to a sectoral collective agreement that regulates in a much more concrete way the working conditions in which these people develop. But let us not be fooled, legally speaking, we must first resolve the legitimacy of business and trade union associations in order to represent this collective. From the point of view of social justice, a collective cannot be allowed to have the right to collective bargaining. And that is why, the first, most important, the stone we must first make, is the signing of ILO Convention 189, which must include that right to collective bargaining. But I want to insist, the rise in the minimum wage is a very big positive news for women, and also, in particular, for women working in this sector. And secondly, you have minimized the guidance you have made Osalan, but it allows homeworkers, and I want you to look around to see if there is anything else similar in any other autonomous community that allows homeworkers to know the risks of work, so that they can avoid and minimize them. And then there's the Labour Inspectorate. It is very difficult to monitor and control private homes, which is precisely where these people provide their services, and it is difficult for these people to report by official channel. We, you know, maintain the anti-fraud box that allows anonymity when making complaints, and I want to record once again, as I have said on other occasions, the Labour Inspectorate attends to all the complaints made in that box. Therefore, I would encourage you to continue using it. And the fundamental problem we face with this sector is its invisibility. We are faced with a problem of submerged employment; therefore, actions will have to be in multiple directions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, about José Manuel Gil Vegas, the popular team of the Céranos members of the staff staff staff, the head physician of the State and Autobernus asking for the ERROY'S ERROYYYY in the heart of crisis." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u93	Thank you, Madam President, Madam Counsellor, good morning. Euskadi is suffering one crisis behind another. We are barely emerging from the economic crisis resulting from the covid and we are already having the consequences of the war in Ukraine. The Lehendakari has come to qualify this situation as an economy of war, I suppose to ask the Basque citizens to tighten their belts. But what we do not see is that the Basque Government is doing the same thing. We all hoped for an important package of measures to reduce structural expenditure, in order to be able to devote more resources to helping families and businesses in this very difficult situation. And yet we see that the Basque government's spending festival in its own structure continues. Already at the beginning of this legislature, in which, among other things, we went from having no vice-lehendakari to having two, it was an increase of 17 high offices in Lakua, from 231 to 248, a festival. But I ask you: what measures to reduce spending and structure does the Government intend to take to set an example for citizens in this context of crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u94	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u95	Mr. President, desk, chief, congressman, good day. Mr. Gil, it's not the first time your team has put this thing on the table. Public managers, and the character and need of the situation, are opposed to you. I'm trying to encourage the Polemics. In any case, I will answer you again on this matter. Furthermore, I believe that certain issues need to be further clarified. Mr. Gil, as can be seen from Law 7 7/81, on the Government Act, there are senior officials and members of the Governing Council, and vice-advisors and vice-advisors and directors who will be appointed by decree, as you know. In addition to these, they are categories assimilated to senior posts for budgetary staffing purposes, the staff of the Legal Advisory Commission, the Administrative Authority on Contracts, Contractual Resources, and the Data Protection Delegate. Made these precisions, and with the data in hand, data that are also public, I again disagree with the numbers it handles. At the moment, we would be talking about a variation of 13 senior positions compared to the last legislature. Their daily work and dedication is essential to better respond to the challenges facing this Government and Basque society at this time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u97	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, Madam Counsellor, for your reply. But look, my goal is not to feed or raise controversy. My goal is that you face a reality that you do not seem to want to see and that you do see all the Basque citizens, and that is that, in fact, for example, the start of the legislature meant an increase in spending of one and a half million euros for Basque taxpayers, which the government has continued to fatten since then... [[19. The end of the tape) is 20th beginning of the tape.]] ... The Basques. And it is that, indeed, for example, the start of the legislature meant an increase in spending of one and a half million euros for Basque taxpayers, which since then the government has continued to fatten its size and structure, while society has continued to suffer crisis after crisis. When it could seem that the worst of the pandemic had passed, we faced months of high inflation, commodity supply crises, strikes and the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Many Basque families are having a bad time. We do not want to demagogue, and we are aware that there has to be a certain level of structure, but we are also aware that the Basque Government is oversized, not to mention the numerous network of public entities and societies aimed mainly at feeding its client network. And if this is never nice for the citizens who have to pay it with the money in their pocket, when they are asked to tighten their belts and talk to them about the war economy and see that the Basque Government does not do the same, imagine how they feel. In an inquiry that a few months ago the spokesman of our group presented to the lehendakari, we were stunned when he came to answer that precisely because we were in a critical situation, we needed higher positions to face these challenges. But, look, we already have an oversized structure: officials, high offices, we have everything. But crises are not solved with more structure. We cannot pass the message on to the citizenry that to more crisis, higher office. For some reason the politicians, according to the last Sociometer, are considered the fourth problem of the Basques; and if we are not exemplary in situations like this, the concern will still increase. We recognize that you do not have a government like that of Sanchez, with three vice-presidencies, which became four, and 22 ministries, many of which are completely intrusive and expendable, which are an insult to the citizenry, but do not have the temptation to go that way, and indeed to prioritize, especially in a crisis context, public spending aimed at facilitating the lives of our leaders, that of the citizens. When citizens make bubble laces to survive every day, to be able to pay the bill for the light, to fill the deposit and to arrive at the end of the month, more than ever, politicians have to be at their side. And we expect from you an example; and that example is a reduction in structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u99	Yes, thank you. Mr. Gil, in the state of uncertainty we live in, as you have said, the challenges of Administration are great, in order to strengthen public and public services. Our quality of life and the greatest guarantee of a better future. The strength of government is at this moment indispensable. The Basque Government is making an enormous effort to strengthen public policies and improve the quality of life of citizens. Public policies that demand efficient and effective accountability in order to best meet the current demands, among which they stand out and are known: the management of the pandemic and its consequences; offer a solidarity and humanitarian response to thousands of people who have fled Ukraine after the Russian invasion; offer certainty and aid to industries, companies, services that have seen their activity affected as a result of the war; management in new transferred matters and representation of Euskadi's interests abroad; management of budgets, the most expansive budgets of history, etc., a long et cetera. Challenges of the scale of what I have just pointed out, Mr Gil, with increasing public investment, more aid programmes and plans to give the best response to citizenship require a solid structure. Each office of this Government is justified by its functions and responsibilities and also by the complicated situation that you are echoing. This Government, as the lehendakari has already announced, will respond with solidarity and concrete measures, defending economic recovery and employment. Don't have the slightest doubt. It's time to put public service work into value and hoist the shoulder. It's not about creating artificial controversy, it's not about festivals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question by David Soso Rodríguz together of Podemos-Nodemus, a member of the Society of the People, and of the Presidency Department of Autogrean, about the records opened by the EJIE contracts of the EJIA competition." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u101	Counselor, good morning. As you will know, the Basque Competition Authority has recently opened a case against 13 IT companies for possible collusive practices in the contracts they have concluded with the Basque Government through EJIE public society. It's raining on wet. The CNMC has already sanctioned a year ago with 6.2 million consultants and managers and directors, precisely for contracts with the Basque Government or other public administrations in Euskadi. In this case we are concerned because the contract amounts are much higher. Simply reviewing the public procurement database, certain companies that are currently being investigated by the Basque Competition Authority accumulate astronomical figures in public procurement with the Basque Administration. To put two simple examples: Ibermatics, 50 million; Inetum, 30 million, between 2015 and 2020. We are aware that the Basque Competition Authority has not completed its investigation and may not resolve this investigation in condemnations, worth redundancy. In any case, it will take us long to know the truth, but what we are already detecting are disturbing patterns of conduct that alarm us. And in this regard I ask you, Counsellor: What considerations do you make in relation to this dossier opened by the Basque Competition Authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u102	Thank you, Mr. Soto. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u103	Bai, president andrea, eskerrik asko. I'll scream. Mr. Soso, you ask me in a word what I think of a file opened by the Basque Authority. As you all know, the Euskal command of the competition is observed to observe that the law of 15/2007 is fulfilled, and what this law says is that the behavior of the colusion, which falsifies, forbids the abuse of the opposition of power, and the disloyal influences which tend to public interest. What can I say about what you ask me? We're in front of a file on the way to research. On our part, as hitherto, we shall respond to all demands and information. So... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...in front of us. On our part, as hitherto, we shall respond to all demands and information. We are therefore dealing with a dossier initiated in the field of competition and in relation to the actions of some companies. In this sense, and as it cannot otherwise be, on our part, full cooperation with the Basque Competition Authority in its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u105	Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. What concerns our parliamentary group about these patterns of conduct that we are observing is a model of management, first of all, which we believe is to some extent conducive to these collusive practices, a governance of consultancy that has been called this at some point. This particular public enterprise, EJIE, is thus referred to in its social object: it is a technological reference company of the Basque public sector. One, reading this, might understand that it is dedicated to managing or developing advanced IT applications for the Administration, but no, it is not. Basically, the 134 million budgets available to it, for example, in 2021, 114 have basically been earmarked for subcontracting with other companies. We believe that the fact that a public company, in this case, develops computer applications, which it basically subcontracts with other companies, generates a certain amount of cultivation for this type of practice. And more considering that this is a priority sector, which even within the framework of the Next Funds and other strategic plans addresses digitisation as a key element in the development of our country's innovation. I insist, we believe that this governance of consultancy in which we tend to subcontract and bid services that we believe to be of general interest and public service puts at risk what is, on the other hand, the use of the efficiency of public resources. The law on public procurement, as you rightly said, clearly states that the best offer must be guaranteed in order to ensure efficiency in the use of public resources. We believe that this constant sub-contracting of public management generates a breeding stock that is conducive to not doing so. And, moreover, this same public company already in 2013, well, the director general of this same company in 2013 had to be removed precisely by an award to a private company in which he had previously worked, a millionaire award. We believe that consideration needs to be given to reviewing procedures, updating ethical codes and also the Basque Government's subcontracting policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u106	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u107	Mr. Soto, you've given up other things that don't have much to do with your question, but I'll go and answer what you've said. A first consideration in this second round with regard to the context and scope of the investigation initiated. From the little information we have, no more than you, that is, that which appears on the website of the Basque Competition Authority, it is clear that the actions initiated by that authority are on the actions of certain undertakings from the point of view of competition. In any case, a process is initiated that at no time prejudges the meaning of the resolution. This is also indicated on the website of the Authority. And I would like to stress this point, since, well, we have to pretend that it is the Authority that can carry out its work with absolute independence and without any pressure. In addition, it should be noted that there has long been a framework for collaboration between the Basque Competition Authority and EJIE. There are training sessions to consolidate a culture of competition, as well as a fluid exchange of information between the two entities. As a result of this collaboration, and as I have been transferred from EJIE, it has in some cases been the government's own IT company that has made a high degree of consultation on tendering with the Authority and on its own initiative. As a second consideration, we trust in the good work of the Basque Competition Authority, to which we will continue to contribute all the necessary collaboration. And, on the other hand, I say once again the commitment of this department and this government to transparency and good governance. So, in a word, it's the practice of companies studying the Euscal command of the contest. And there's a stable frame of cooperation between EJIE and Authority, which is offering him a full settlement. So, what's our main plan? Mr. Soto, to ease the Euskal command of the competition, to help and to continue the investigation in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The 15th point in the theme list: "Appeal, written by the member of the Ciudadans to the Chief of Economics of Economics, by Jose Manuel Gilevelli, the popular Group of Euscals, to the Economics Department of Economism, to the Chief of Environments, to the measures necessary for eucination of the invasion of the Ukraine."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. We are going to talk a lot about Ukraine, there is a plenary on this, and I think we have already talked a little bit, but I am particularly concerned about moving our thoughts on the effects this issue or this crisis has on Basque companies. On 20 February the invasion of Ukraine began, it has very important economic consequences for the whole of Europe, also for Euskadi, logically. A few days later, the Lehendakari himself asked the Basques to prepare for a war economy, and the truth is that the war, the price of energy, and the transport strike are taking our companies to the limit. On 8 March, we were able to see that the Governing Council devoted special attention to this issue and considered it appropriate to take extraordinary measures, but did not take them into account. Nor at the Governing Council on 15 March. And finally, on the 22nd last day, from the Department of Economy and Finance the first measures were launched, activating a credit line of 10 million euros to support companies with commercial interests in Russia, Ukraine or Belarus. These first steps... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Initiating the first steps by activating a credit line of 10 million euros to support companies with commercial interests in Russia, Ukraine or Belarus. These initial measures, according to the Government itself, did not mean that other measures could not be studied and taken, and in fact, it was recognized that departments were considering options. That is why, Commissioner, I ask you what measures your department, your department in particular, has taken or plans to take to help and prepare Basque companies in the face of war, the war economy, as defined by the Lehendakari. And I'm asking you this, because we're already late, and the Basque companies and families need you to get out of the stupor, react, and put the real batteries on. I recognize that we are concerned, because you are specialists in doing what you do, in presenting to candy and dish plans and programs, usually with rumbling names in English or Basque, almost never in Spanish. That they are basically nothing but smoke, because they are actually empty of concrete and effective measures that can help businesses. But on this occasion they are getting over each other. In the face of a particularly serious, critical situation in which every minute counts, you are quite paralyzed. Only a few timid measures on 22 March, when Russia's invasion of Ukraine had already been under way for a month, with very important economic consequences, and yesterday's plan. You say you're busy and worried about the situation. And it is true that in the Council on 8 March we were able to see that special attention was paid to this subject, and you published a note considerably more extensive than usual. Apparently, you guys made a good diagnosis, which I can't say about other colleagues from other departments of yours. But on this day, however, because of their absence, the measurements were shining. Well, we share with you the concern about the situation of our citizens, of the economy and of our companies in the face of this cocktail of raw materials, inflation spraying 10%, rising energy prices, transport strikes, unemployment of companies and shortages, motivated by the invasion of Ukraine. But we must denounce that their concern and the serious words with which they define the situation do not correspond to their passiveness. The Governing Council of 8 March, to which it referred earlier, after five pages of dossier, concluded that it was appropriate to take extraordinary measures, but without concrete action. One Tuesday after, on the 15th, we assumed that steps would be taken in that Governing Council to counter questions and appeals at the Friday 18th Review Plenary. Even his own group asked him about the effects of Russia's invasion of Ukraine on Basque companies. And against the prognosis, because we thought that you would take advantage of the opportunity, the window, to announce a powerful battery of measures, you merely pointed out that you were studying it, but that you could not offer a clear and concrete answer. However, on that counsel of the 15th they merely announced that for the next Tuesday perhaps already (?Perhaps they would take the first steps. And we arrived on the 22nd, and indeed, his economic colleague presented some timid, insufficient measures, but we did not see those of his department. Before yesterday, you announced a strategic investment plan of 529 million euros, in which you have mixed the investments made by the three members, measures already known and envisaged previously, advanced funds of Euskadi Next, and so on, a real refrain to seem to do something. And in the end, an insufficient mobilization of resources for the serious situation that we are going through. Meanwhile, every passing minute has continued to drown a little more into our corporate fabric. Not only the Basque companies with interests in Russia and Ukraine, which, of course, are the most directly affected, but all of them are paying more or less the consequences. And not only do we say this, Confebask has spoken of a worrying situation. (?) It already assumes that the forecasts for this year will no longer be able to be met. And Adegi has quickly called for shock measures, because the Russian invasion has consequences for 62.63 % of Gipuzcoan companies. The Basque employer also calls for measures to alleviate this crisis. And you, I repeat, remain paralyzed. Look, the central government's been late. Sánchez has waited without taking action until last weekend's European Council, and finally, he has taken measures for which there was no need for European endorsement, which he could have taken weeks ago. Let's see if the same thing will happen to you, who have been waiting for Europe and the Central Government for some time, when you actually have resources and resources to make decisions that you don't need the approval of any higher body. They don't have to wait for anyone to take action within their competition framework on a topic that every day that happens is wasted time from which it will cost us a lot to recover. In the end, unfortunately, the last of you will come to take real action, you will come even later than Sanchez, whom you have so rightly criticized for your passivity. The worst is that we do not seem to expect new measures in the short term either. We have been able to read in the press that in the round of groups that the lehendakari will start on Monday, you want to share reflections, but without concrete measures. The most we have seen is that the government is now taking a joint act with the deputies to sign up for the (?) photo of its measures. It is curious that for what interests you seem to be scrupulous with each Administration, and you pass the ball from one to another to avoid responsibilities, and for other things, you stage coordination and that basically everything is the same. So take advantage of this cordial relationship this week to ask you to lower taxes, to relieve taxation to families and businesses is key at this moment we are going through. It is in the hands of parliaments and you have influence for it. For our part, we reach out to him. We are a responsible group and given the emergency situation like this, we offer you our loyal collaboration so that our companies and families can overcome this new crisis in the best possible way. But please act, take action now, if it is not going to be very difficult to make this concrete (?)cooperation offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u110	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u111	Thank you, Mrs. President, chief and congressman, all good days. Mr Gil, indeed, we are going to have the opportunity next Friday, I think, to have a full monograph to talk about these issues, and to that loyal collaboration that you were talking about, well, when you are with the lehendakari also over the next week, because I also hope that it will be so and they will offer it to you. What we've done from the department itself. Well, from minute one, from (?) Investment, that is, our Internationalization Agency, we approached the companies that were located there, both in Russia and Ukraine, and you know it quite well because I have commented here, to know what their problems were and how we could help them. Secondly, we analysed with all the industrial clusters what was their particular situation in each of the sectors of desalination, the price of raw materials that was already being given, but that... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... we analysed with all the industrial clusters what their particular situation was in each of the sectors: depletion, the cost of raw materials, which was already being given but which has been aggravated, the price of energy, the risk of defaults, the execution of guarantees, contracts that were already in place, tension in cash flows that they had in those companies, well those located in Russia, and especially those that were exporting from Euskadi. And well four areas of work were detected, one, the operational and business area, which refers to closures, production stops there, in Russia; decrease of demand when the main customers left that market, paralysis of projects that were already in progress, some already delivered; and others that had to start at the moment, loss or blocking of customers and cancellation of certain orders that were almost in the portfolio or that were in the portfolio and that had to start working. Secondly, financial aspects were analysed, the risk of implementing guarantees as he said in contracts that have not yet been completed, difficulty in the movement of capital in Russia itself with workers who were already there, who had to pay them the salary; difficulty for banking operations in general, production costs that are fired, as you know; and currency valuation, which directly affected us. As far as supply is concerned, I am not going to point out much further than these problems of raw material shortages and price increases. Logistics that already existed as a result of the fact that all ports at international level are still unrecovered 100% of their activity, and of the way of working prior to the pandemic, to which were joined all the topics of the strike of the unemployment in the transport. And legal issues as to the need to apply again for export licences that had been absolutely cancelled once the invasion of Ukraine occurred. Then we got to work in those areas, what did we offer? And what do we offer today as well? Reports and expert advice from Bti, that is, war monitoring reports that you can observe, analyze, on the web portal. Report on sanctions to Russia for detailed follow-up on what is happening in each of the companies. And analysis of the only impact predictions of the war, because we are not referring to anything else, about the different sectors that we have in Euskadi. In addition, a help test was launched, i.e. a portal for information and support to companies in each of the actions they had to perform. You have enabled dedicated access to each of these companies and are offered personalized attention, you can talk to any of them. Secondly, funding lines were put in place, as you mentioned. Firstly, in order to unburden that cash-flow that was taking place in some companies, because they were in markets that were potentially risky, with a line of credits that starts with 10 million euros, but does not end there, in case of need it can be expanded. And loans of between 50,000 and 1,000,000 euros with a term of three years, with a lack of up to 12 months and an interest rate of the Euribor to 12 months plus a difference of 1.25%. Always articulated through Elkargi with the Basque Institute of Finance. In addition, there is, and I would like to recall, liquidity support for companies that are already in operation, and that will be expandable if necessary to start up liquidity for SMEs and large companies. Co-financed loans between the IVC and financial institutions that are especially geared towards meeting the needs of these problems that have arisen in Russia and Ukraine. Begira, it's not new, no, but in case additional resources are required, that line already exists, because we had it underway as a result of the covid crisis, and it can be expanded. In addition, following the meeting with the different clusters last Friday, in which Lehendakari attended, other measures, some of which are already under way and others are being analysed, were also specifically discussed, along with the different sectors. The EUR 150 million available from the Basque Energy Agency to cover energy efficiency aid in different industrial sectors was put on the table, as well as self-consumption and storage aid, which will be very important given the price we have at the moment of energy, which we trust can also be reduced with the measures taken. Secondly, we are talking about advance payments and moratoriums. As worked out during the COVID-19 crisis, the possibility is offered to relax the lead times of advances and establish moratoriums in the case of departmental programmes, where programmes are repayable advances and must be recovered. Therefore, as was done with the covid, exactly the same, advance payments by one party and moratoriums. In addition, rent deferrals have been offered to companies located in technological parks as well as companies located in industrial polygons, owned by Sprilur, as was done during the covid as well. And there are two aspects that are working with the private sector, because it is they who have to start up, but we offer our collaboration, which is that of working a shopping center. Let's say, we would work for large volumes of raw materials on the international market, which has now been reduced as a result of this invasion, raw materials that are currently coming from Russia and which we cannot access. And it would be that from the Basque Trade and Investment, from our offices in different countries, alternatives will be sought, and with a pooled purchasing center we could work with companies in different sectors. And the same is true of the centralized purchasing of energy, an initiative that has certainly worked very well for small and medium-sized enterprises for some years now, since the SEA and which we could expand for other cases. It is also going to offer specialized legal advice in an extraordinary and temporary way, absolutely, well, let's say, paid by the Basque Government, it will not cost businesses. In the meantime, these initial legal consultations are essential to continue the work of companies. You know that at the time when unemployment in transport was a serious problem, last week that was putting itself in a terrible situation. Also from the Department of Employment and Labour the possibility of taking advantage of the arts of force majeure was transferred to companies as a result of which it greatly relieved different companies. Our technology centers and some of the... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of force majeure, such as that consequence which greatly relieved different companies. Our technology centres and some of the companies in the sector, especially TEIC, offered, on the one hand, R & D for new products that could replace some problems they had, and hiring women researchers and technologists from Ukraine who were living as refugees. In such a way that they could also be offered a job quickly. At present, this offer exists on the portal of the various technological centres for these people. It is currently being developed, what the new temporary framework approved by the European Union can do is being analysed, and there are also special measures for the first sector, with which we are also working. First of all, you know that we set up the price observatory, so that the food chain law was complied with and banned, or otherwise banned, as already stated by the law, but that we could make a concrete follow-up of all those companies that were selling for losses. Therefore, an important element, with the Basque Competition Authority. Secondly, we valued the direct aid that could be given to the Basque agri-food sector, as it was launched with the covid during the month of November. We have to wait, we already have the new time frame in this case and we will set it in motion in the same way. And we are also working on two aspects: finding alternative suppliers for sunflower oil for our canneries; and finding feed for all the animals on the Euskadi farms at the hands of companies in the sector, trying to help with financial measures to those corns or other raw materials that we will need to bring to Euskadi. In short, these are measures we are working with with the elbowed sector, which are not going to be the last, and which I think are interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u113	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, counselor, for your answer. You will have seen me with the pen writing, because I was hoping that you would say some measure that I would have escaped, that I would not know, that it would be really powerful and that I would really be wrong in my diagnosis; but I have found that, in fact, what you have done is an enumeration of what had already been, and that, frankly, seems very insufficient to us. I don't know if you're satisfied with this. I don't know if you've asked the companies if they're already covered with this, but the feeling we have in the contact we keep with them is that they're very worried and they're helpless and they're pretty abandoned. That is, all these measures of reports, advice, information portals, papers, that is not what they need. They need money, more specifically, direct money. Funding lines, yes, that's fine, but what's the problem with funding lines? That then you have to return the money, and now the companies can't generate it. What they are not going to do is not burden themselves with the future, that is to say, in debt for the future. Finally, that most of these lines many of them were already underway, others of them... There are some that have preceded me that are very interesting, the topic of central purchasing or centralized purchasing of energy, but, of course, they have to be done by the private sector, they have not yet started, we are talking with them. Anyway, all very little, all a little late. And I understand that it is not easy, but I do believe that the Basque citizens need that it is not enough to make a communicative effort on this issue, that it is not enough to set up meetings with the Members-General, that behind all that concern you say you are expressing, when it gets deeper into the measures we find that there are few, that you are late, that you do not respond to the real needs of families. And that, therefore, we encourage you to put the batteries, which are more forceful, which risk taking new measures, direct measures, more aggressive measures, measures that really help companies. Companies need direct aid, companies need tax rebates and companies need to be helped to increase their turnover right now, opening up new markets. There you are, I understand, that the axes that really allow companies to say that they are really being helped. I mean, it's not about making it happen, it's about making concrete things out of you. You have repeated it again, the diagnosis you have made about it. I have already recognized you in the first intervention that I think you have made a good diagnosis, but it is that, of course, the problem is that you stay in the diagnosis, it is that then you have to move on to action. Because if you compare the measures you have communicated to me with the diagnosis you made at the beginning you will realize that there are many elements of the diagnosis that are not treated of any kind. Then, the diagnosis is, I know you've done well, but it's just that we're late, it's that companies are drowning, it's that every minute that goes by costs companies a lot of money, and we're going to have company closures as a result. That's what we're trying to avoid, Mrs. Tapia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u114	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u115	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Starting at the end, Mr Gil, the direct aids you speak of are new, new are not; they are the usual formula. But for which Europe has to establish the temporary framework and has to make it more flexible and has done so, and the Spanish State has to request it. Then we apply it. But you know that that's the procedure, and novel, novel is not, because we've used it previously. In any case, you will be in contact with the business fabric, perfect, but so will we. Then, these measures are what you are asking us at this time, financial measures, there can be improved, sure, but financial measures there are possibilities for use. And, of course, what the companies, myself personally and the department I run, were asking us in the first moments and still today they are asking us is what happens to the contract I have, of 22 million, for example, that I have half already executed and located in Russia, and yet I have the other half of the machine in my warehouse and I have to take it there? How do I speed up permissions... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ...and located in Russia. And yet, I have the other half of the machine in my warehouse and I have to take it there. How I expedite the permits, who I have to talk to in order for that to be the case, and how I can get the endorsements I have of that machine not to be executed. And that's not about money; that's about another kind of business, as you well know. So, economic-financial measures do, but as important as those are other accompanying measures, that we have neither invented them nor, of course, believe that they are the panacea, but that they are essential after making the diagnosis shared with these companies in the different sectors, because not all have the same problems. Specific measures for the first sector and measures for the industrial sector. They will not be the last, because, unfortunately, it does not seem that this war will end tomorrow and it does not seem that the sanctions imposed on Russia will also disappear from one day to the next. Then we will have to work the short term that we have now, but also the medium and the long, and prepare and transform our productive fabric for that moment. And those 530 million that were announced on Wednesday are not the result of day-to-day work or of any occurrence. It is an intense work that has had to be carried out for a long time, which has nothing to do with this crisis, which in any case has to be put into operation, and, of course, I think it is a relevant effort on the part of the administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Gustavo Angulo García was together Podemos, a member of the Antizian Division of Economics, Economism, and the chief department of the Environment, as to the murder of Ladio." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, everyone. On 7 March HAZI published an analysis of the situation of the meat-producing sector and the needs of the slaughter facilities around the Laudio slaughterhouse and areas bordering on the disease. On the same day as HAZI's report was released, the Immediate Action Plan for the economic recovery of Aiaraldea was also presented. This plan - which has not yet been referred to the parliamentary groups despite the fact that it was adopted on 1 March in the Governing Council - as far as we know, this plan does ironically contemplate the feasibility study of a bird slaughter centre, but it does not speak of maintaining or reopening the larger livestock slaughterhouse, even if it is not in Llodio, even if it is not in Laudio, in any other area, when the conclusions of the Ponencia for the economic recovery of the Araialdea area and the neighbouring populations clearly established that a feasibility study was carried out to rehabilitate and update the Llodio slaughterhouse; and in the event that the report was favourable, that the procedures were carried out to recover it. Before the final closure, a study on the viability of the slaughterhouse should have been carried out. We do not know if the feasibility study is the analysis that HAZI has carried out. That is why we are asking whether this is the analysis that has studied the viability of the slaughterhouse, and whether it considers the Basque Government on the basis of that report that the Laudio slaughterhouse should not be reopened. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u118	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u119	Bai. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Angulo jauna, indeed, the report produced by HAZI was a report which, of course, sought to analyse the viability of the meat-producing sector and its needs, and did not talk about the viability or what the slaughterhouse really is, but rather about rehabilitation and updating of the slaughterhouse within that whole. The old slaughterhouse facilities, moreover, are owned by the City Council, and it is its decision to reopen them or not. In any case, what we are talking about in that report, as you will remember, is how the management model should be in relation to livestock slaughter infrastructures. In this sense, it is said that they are strategic infrastructures, because they respond to a sectoral plan; that the model must be private management, where the slaughter activity is not considered a public service in itself but is part of a food value chain, but must be private; that they must be precisely integrated within that value chain and that, consequently, the killing process must be a part of how the whole sector works, with management, of course, with parameters of profitability and also economic sustainability; that the coexistence of different types of slaughter rooms must be taken into account; that we must therefore give impetus to another type of infrastructure, and that we must, in any case, have the objective of structuring the sector, of providing a service of quality and sustainability, and of course, consider it to be an initiative directly linked to the whole activity of the livestock sector. The meat culture speaks, in short, of transferring to society a model of production that exists in Euskadi, on farms that are mostly familiar, and which also require the activity of slaughterhouses within that value chain. That's what the report says, and I think there's enough information to decide whether to open it or not, but by the City Council that owns it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u121	Thank you very much, Counselor. Well, you've already answered me aside from the doubts I had, it was if the Consistory itself was part of the closure. I take it, by their answer, that it was the Consistory itself that participated in the closure, and it was a decision of them. But we also have more questions, because we have more doubts, because we also do not know how those affected by this slaughterhouse have been taken into account. Or sixth, the Hiltegia Ez Itxi platform has been informed of the steps being taken, as we have moved from a preventive closure on July 2 to a complete dismantling of the facilities in January. And in this space of time workers -11 workers had the slaughterhouse -, the farmers and the Parliament itself have remained on the road. And what can I also say - and I want to point out - that with this kind of decision it is normal for people who are going to undertake in the first sector to have to think about it once and twice, because what we do is to keep putting stones on... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it's normal for people who are going to engage in the first sector to have to think about it once and twice, because what we do is keep putting stones on one path, keep adding discomfort when working in the sector, in this case livestock. To our understanding the problem was neither the discharges, nor the management, nor the deficit or the investment. For Laudio's slaughterhouse was the most profitable slaughterhouse of all in Euskadi; 63%, as the (...) report says, does justify the closure of slaughterhouses because of profitability. But it was decided to close the most profitable slaughterhouse, compared to Donostia with 24%, or Toulouse with 16% profit. In our view, the reason why the slaughterhouse was closed is political. For many years now, concentration has been sought in Gipuzkoa, at the expense of the slaughterhouses in Bizkaia or Álava. And what we are talking about here is territorial cohesion. This is a question that is always on the table, on top of all the territorial papers that are given in this Parliament. With the closure of this slaughterhouse there is a great territorial misadjustment. This is also said in the report of (...). Geographically, it was an important enclave, due to the lack of other slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u122	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u123	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Angle, I don't want to be repetitive. But what the report contained was, of course, an analysis of the meat-producing sector, an analysis of the whole value chain, and an observation of the role of slaughterhouses - in this case in Laudio - and what role they played there. And I've commented. Characterize it as a strategic infrastructure, but as part of that chain, and always under parameters of profitability and sustainability. Profitability and economic sustainability, but also environmental sustainability and care of the entire livestock species. And of course, when you tell me that the primary sector, the people who are working in the livestock sector, can happen to be discouraged, of course, what the report says is precisely that if we consider the whole value chain and give sufficient capacity each of the links, it will work in a more appropriate way. That's what the report says, it doesn't say anything else. And as you said, of course, within what is... good, because the reactivation of the whole Aiaraldea area, you said it yourself, as a preferred area of action. Well, that's where the forecast is to be able to open up an infrastructure of these characteristics, dedicated of course to the subject of birds. With characteristics, I insist, of profitability and sustainability. Always from that foresight. Because there have to be private people, private people living in that business, and perfectly incardinated in the value chain. They are the main elements of infrastructure of these characteristics. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpelation, by Jose Manuel Gil Vegas Euscal, the popular team of the Ciudadns, a member of the Board of Education, about the results of the diagnostic evaluations of ISE-IVEI." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counsellor, today I close this intense round of interventions that I have had to do today, talking to you about a topic that you have been trying to avoid for a long time, but that I was very keen to do so; and from the educational results. We have finally learned the first results of the 2019 diagnostic evaluation. Evidence that we have asked for on numerous occasions, and that even the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos-IU was told in September that it was being modeled. As I told you in full control of 18, nor that you didn't have enough structure to model it a little faster. We partially knew the results of linguistic and mathematical competition. Also through media such as El Correo and El Diario Vasco, and not by the transparent attitude of his department. When we met the latter, mathematics, in fact, seemed to us to be sufficiently serious to request their appearance on the Education Commission. This was December 21. And here we are still waiting for that appearance to happen. Yeah, I know it's not just up to you; well, I don't know. What is clear is that we have advanced other things that seem to be more priority, such as technological sovereignty. But finally, now that we know the full picture of the results report, we were thinking about his appearance in the Education Committee was more necessary and more urgent than ever. But indeed, as I said to you, the committee has lately been devoted to other things, and to disregarding the requests of our parliamentary group. Before yesterday we received the call, and we have seen that in fact, free software platforms are more urgent. That is why I put this question to you today, in the first possible plenary since we have known the full report of ISEI-IVEI, without prejudice that this appearance we think should be held as soon as possible. This is a very worrying issue for everyone, and I think it would be interesting to go into more detail, not only on this report, but also to hear what the other parliamentary groups have to say about this diagnosis and on Basque education. Since it is something that in the agreement of the nationalist and pseudonationalist parties of this House has intentionally shone. We know that the past two years have suffered a terrible pandemic, but it is no excuse for us to have been three years without knowing those results. These assessments were carried out between May 6, 2019, and we were informed of the results on March 2, 2022, three years later. And if this is serious by itself, much more so when the data cast such a worrying picture. The Basque education system has the worst results in its history. Since we have data from 2009, the level has fallen, and the trend is not reversed. And it is turned not only by the art of magic, but by measures based on a certain diagnosis. If it is delayed for three years in the presentation of the diagnosis, the question is, from then on to here, the more it has continued to fall. In education, time is gold. I know these are uncomfortable data for you. They are also for the counselor who preceded him in the position. But the party to which both belong and for the Government I also understand that they should be concerned about this. But you'll see, we don't fix anything. We even continue to dig the hole in which Basque education is located. The myth of good management of the PNV is also a lie in education, and it has terrible consequences for our children and young people, and also for all of us as a society, because education is the best investment for the future of our land. And if it's significant that your department has tried to hide this report as long as possible... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... and also for all of us as a society, because education is the best investment for the future of our land. And if it is significant that your department has tried to hide this report as long as possible, it is just as significant as the agreement you have reached with the rest of nationalist, pseudonationalist and ultranationalist groups. It is significant, for example, that this agreement lacks any kind of diagnosis. You are going to make a law, so you see, without making a prior diagnosis, not even with your government partners, nor with your partners in agreement; it does not seem to us to be a good start. Before reviewing the main data in the report, I would like to recall one element that we cannot ignore in this debate: we are the autonomous community that spends the most money per student. We spent 9,415 euros per student, almost 2,000 euros more than in Navarre, which is the next community in the ranking, and 3,500 euros above the national average. And it seems very good to us to spend all the money we need in education, because liberals do not consider it an expense but an investment. But of course, if it's done right and it translates into results, because if we don't really do what we do, it's to waste the money that makes it so hard for Basque citizens to make. And that is the case with Euskadi: we are the ones who spend the most on education, and the results are terrible. Our high school students get the worst data in history in Mathematics, the worst data in history and with a striking collapse in English, and the worst data in history and with a similar fall in Euskera. And in this last one I want to entertain myself for a moment, because it seems especially scandalous to me. We have always said that it is a mistake to put education at the service of euskaldunisation, because education must have at the centre the student and not a political project. But the bloodiest thing about this data is that the Basque Government is failing, even in achieving this wrong goal. In addition, we are extremely concerned that there are fewer and fewer excellent students in all areas. The data are regrettable, and we think that there is no way to sweeten them so that the work of the Basque Government in recent years can be done moderately well. Worst of all, we're not surprised; you've heard me say it 1,000 times. To encourage Basque children to study in a language that is not maternal, and that they do not master, has consequences of this kind. This is an unpleasant message in many areas of Euskadi, but it is a reality that is cruelly shown in reports like this, made by its own government. Now we're supposed to have a chance. We are in the midst of a process that must lead us to a new education law. It should be the time for all groups to put results and quality at the centre of the debate, and not to repeat the mistake of instrumentalizing education for other purposes, but this has not begun well. The document to be adopted in plenary on day 7 is a bad basis for the future law. An agreement in which they have again put education at the service of the euskera, and the euskera at the service of the nationalist ideological project; they are letting Bildu decide how education in Euskadi. You, as I have said on other occasions, will argue that in order to draw up the diagnosis of Basque education we must not just look at this report - I hope, by the way, that you explain the delay in delivering the results - but I suppose you will put the emphasis on the good rate of schooling that Euskadi has, the suitability of the course, the high percentage of students who continue with the non-compulsory stage until they reach the age of 16, all better than the national average. But all these data fail to cover the raw reality that the data show, as the academic results of our students, which should be the priority, are bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u126	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u127	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Gil jauna, I would like to begin my speech by pointing out that it is really worrying the chronic repetition of your parliamentary group - that of yourself - in permanently transferring a negative image of our educational system based on a simplistic and pejorative reductionism in the interpretation of the results of student evaluations, in contrast to other indicators that our system has. The data you cite are not new; we had the opportunity to explain them in detail to the Education Commission at the appearance held on June 28, 2021. These data have already been presented within the framework of the overview of the Basque Education System 2021, which was provided as documentation on the same day to the members of the Commission of which you are also a member. We must value our educational system and the work done by thousands and thousands of professionals. 30 years of the current law have passed and we have made much progress. Data... Klaro, I'll show you and you don't like them, but they are. It's from Eukadin 6,5% of Education in 2020, Europe, 9.9. The data is even better in 2021: Euskadin, %4,8; Finland, 8,2. Eucharin, 2020, Euskadin, 11,1; European Union, 14,4. The number of top-level studies is at the head of Eukadin Europe: 2020, Euskadi, 61.7; European Union, 40.5. In 2021, Euskadi, 66%; Spain, 48%. Todavía no tenemos datos de la Unión Europe. In the degrees of high-level professions, we have the highest percentage of the whole state. 83% of the higher class of studies have a job, and we are at the head of the whole state, and better than the European Union. According to the English investigation of the European Enigma Proficence, the community is Basque, with the highest degree of English in the whole state. The rate of schooling of students who are 16 or 17 years old is complete, and we are in Europe. We've got the smallest rate of national repetitions. The school rate for kids who are two years old is from '93, where 30 points are higher than the state. The Basque Country University is among the 800 best university in Shanghai, even in 2021. Three-quarters of all students make it an eucalyptic activity, and 99% of which proof is exceeded. I mean, we have a social education system... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...and 99% of them pass that test. In other words, we have a socially established education system, with dropout rates of the lowest in Europe. We were pioneers 30 years ago and we must be again. We are leaders in drop-out and school enrolment rates at 16 years above reference countries, such as Finland for example. We live in a moment of transformation and we must adapt the educational model to the new challenges. We live in a new digital global scenario of great cultural diversity. We face new learning systems, new demands for training, new challenges of coexistence and new challenges of values. We must open ourselves up to greater participation by the educational community, the need for greater autonomy of the centres, the collaboration of all institutions with education. We have a good base. We must continue to make progress since the agreement on the transformation of education, adding to equity, and also to excellence. Euscalal education system must continue to advance its full course to the quality of education through a process of innovation and modification. In the following fields he must go by: In equity and in the treatment of variety, in the process of learning, in eloquence, and also in digitalization. Our system has shown a firm commitment to a more effective society for the past few years, and will continue with it. Incline special attention and specific programs with orders that no one should be left behind in high complex schools. Society itself is the challenge to reply in reply. Education project that is going to develop an education agreement is engaged in making a new map of Eucharistic social cohesion. This map allows you to assign duties and give resources according to the requirements and targets each school has to take upon it in this common purpose. We're going to a society where there's going to be more diversity than we used to be. To a large extent, it is up to the educational system to decide that this diversity takes the forms of fragmentation and indifference or, on the contrary, of respect, integration and social cohesion. As indicated in the June appearance, equity is repeated as a feature of our system in the PISA international assessments. Euskadi presents high percentages of pupils at average levels of performance, in addition to a lower percentage than the OECD average at lower levels of performance in all skills assessed at PISA. Look at you, Mr Gil, a week ago you were talking to the Finnish Minister of Education and sharing your thoughts on international testing. These tests help us to take temperature from some aspects that are important, very important, but they only include a small number of academic areas in their indexes. There are many aspects that are essential and that must be taken into account when measuring the educational success of an educational system and schools. Diagnostic evaluations have to serve us to develop our strategy as a system and to be able to identify lines of improvement and accompaniment to the educational centers, they must also be the input to enrich and complement the evaluation carried out in the centers. They should not be used boldly and to criticize the Government's action in this area. In answer to your question, we want to emphasise certain areas from the Board of Education to continue the euscal education systems leading to a standard in advance: To continue working for a class of radicals, to pursue the projects of significant schools, to promote new education leaders and organization models, to encourage a new digital strategy, to continue to improve the classic model of our eloquent school, to new cultural projects and innovations that will help us improve outside class and class. The most important levers must be observed. One, a program for superior education. Two programs for the autonomy of public schools of great complexity. Three, digital capabilities programs. Four, the language of the school to strengthen communication skills in multiple contexts. Five, an inclusive school, and a strategy that will help us to develop a great deal. Mr Gil, if something brings me as a lesson learned from Finland, it is the sensitivity and treatment of education in Finnish society; the treatment of education as a country element that serves to unite rather than as a tool of wear and tear and social conflict. This very morning the lehendakari also invited him to an agreement. I believe that what has been able in this Parliament to unite the wishes of more than 90% of parliamentarians is, at least, respectable. You can say and use politically and that if it is the speech of one party or the speech of another. I understand, and seeing also, listening to the statements of all the political parties in which they understand that everyone has made a text among all the parliamentarians, I understand that they have truly been a sincere exercise in work for something that is believed to be, which is something basic, which is education. Because education is a future bet, it's a country's future bet. And that such an important effort has been made to achieve that achievement I believe that you too, and you, and your group, and the group you represent should also ask a question: why are you out? Isn't it much more suggestive and more important to be able to get and work so you can be inside? Next week, if this Parliament is right, they will send the conclusions to the government. And also from here, as advisor and leader of this department, it also has my commitment that we too will try to unite the wills of all those who have not entered into this first moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u128	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours. [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Counselor. As I was afraid, you have given me a review, indeed, of the indicators that were right for you on the subject of education. But listen, we have come here to talk about results, and about this you have made no mention, neither about the delay in the delivery of data, nor about the results that apparently do not interest you. What you have done again is indeed an exercise of triumphalism. He's come to say we're at the forefront. Anyway, yes, it is true, the Basque education system led by you seems to do many things well, many things, less teach math boys, language, science and even Basque. Everything else, apparently, is great. And since we are not interested in the data in this report, you refer to PISA's, and you say that it must be taken into account, but relatively. I hear, I understand that you're worried that (?) The negative image of education, but you will see, is that it is not I who transfers it, is that it is you, is that the report of ISEI-IVEI, is that it is not I who has given that data, eh?, that I have not invented it myself, that I wish it were completely contrary data, that I would love that this data were positive, that I would love to hear that our students are at international levels of excellence, but it is that we are very far away, and of course, I do not know how we are going to work, I do not know how we are going to make a new law, if we do not start from a realistic diagnosis. If what we're really doing is cheating on reality, ignoring the data we're interested in and staring at just others, then we're going to make a great law. Look, in the report you have agreed on something unusual: that at the end of Primary Education all students must reach level B1 of Basque and at the end of Secondary Education level B2. And I wonder why you have not also agreed that at the end of Primary Education the students achieve an excellent level of mathematics, language or science, or that at the end of Secondary we get in the PISA reports a determined position somewhat better than the one we have now. Placed to agree the results that the students will have to have, that you focus on the Basque, it leaves much in evidence that it is what they really care about, and that is the real cause of our bad results, that they really do not care, as long as the students speak Basque whether they want it or not, and so it goes. Mr. Counsellor, I am afraid you did value two important results at the end of your term. First of all, I suspect you're gonna end up making all your predecessors good, and you had it hard, huh? but I see you're persevering. And secondly, I'm afraid that (?) It's going to go down in history for making the worst education law possible. But it is still in time, because the bill has not yet been delivered nor the preliminary draft, I hope that when it arrives (?) I regret everything I'm saying, and I have to congratulate you on the project. But I don't know, the partners you have chosen today don't allow me to be optimistic, and the bad news is that what we're playing is nothing more and nothing less than the education of an entire generation. I would ask you, Mr. Counsellor, for an exercise of responsibility now that we are still in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u130	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u131	Gil jauna, we are convinced of the value of evaluations, to evaluate for improvement. Assess from co-responsibility in the adoption of improvement actions. And this is reflected in the basic agreement approved by the vast majority of this House, with a specific and comprehensive section on evaluation and continuous improvement of the education system, which I do not know if you have read it, but apparently not. We must emphasize that our education system has evaluation as one of its main tools for improvement. With a view to improving the results, we will bet to strengthen the comprehensive evaluation of the system, that is, all the procedures and actions of the agents within the framework of agreed indicators measurable and homologable with the communities and countries of our environment and in all competences, Mr Gil, in all, do not worry. Moreover, since the educational process also feeds on positive attitudes, it is important to incorporate a new approach, a new approach adapted in the times we have recently experienced, and starting from the opportunity to implement a new curriculum more flexible, but at the same time rigorous and effective to advance in the improvement of our educational model. A competitive curriculum where emotional well-being is key to addressing or adapting to environmental situations and demands, including learning, to meet the challenges of the 21st century, both at the personal, social and professional levels. Lessons learned that have highlighted the needs of society, the families of students, in the field of mental health. We must pay attention to emotional indicators such as joy, enjoyment, illusion, curiosity, security, protection, achievement, rooting, respect, affection or gratitude. This will be a (?) who doesn't care, but I tell you they're very important. In the progressive advancement of the autonomy of the centres, our education system must develop a model for evaluating the effectiveness of the centres for improvement from the pedagogical educational perspective and responsibility in management and organization in the face of the commitments made between the Basque Government and the educational centres. Accountability has to do with both the need for the centres to have the necessary information and the right of a democratic society to know the situation of public-funded education. In this comprehensive approach to the evaluation framework, student evaluation is seen as an instrument to improve teaching and learning processes. It is characterized by being individualized, constant and able to reflect the evolution of the student. Similarly, we must make an effort to streamline external evaluations of students in line with objectives and on the basis of methodological principles. We share the view that it is necessary to clarify and regulate their periodicity within a medium-term time horizon in order for the centres to be able to integrate them in a standardised manner. In short, we are committed to an own evaluation framework, in order to develop an integral vision. Indeed, this is a complex and multifactorial process that includes students, teachers, curriculars, addresses, school, families, community and educational system, and seeks the complementarity between self-evaluation and external evaluations. As you will see, Mr Gil, evaluations are much more than student diagnostic assessments. We firmly believe in evaluation... [[The end of the tape is the 30th beginning of the tape.]] ...and external evaluations. As you will see, Mr Gil, evaluations are much more than student diagnostic assessments. We firmly believe in evaluation as a tool for improving our educational system. And it has made a number of assessments with regard to the document to be voted on next week in this plenary. And he's also made a number of references to the partners I've chosen. I didn't choose any partners. All I see are parliamentarians, parliamentarians who have been democratically elected. Now, each will have to do with what forces it counts with and what support and what representation it has for the very face of the citizenry. But since I do not really understand management in the field of education at least, underlining in everything that separates us, I again move and offer you the hand to collaborate, to work and to try to make education truly what we all say it is: an important policy that defines and develops the future of our country and the future of all young people who are ours and who walk their future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u132	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 18th point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together Podemos, a member of the Antzar Party, a member of the Board of Education, about the high data of the school-relation which our public education suffers." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u133	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, chief of departments. Welcome from Finland, chief physician. Jakina Gauza da, ukaezina erabat, skola segregation of the hezkuntza-systemaren arazo larrietako bat. Jakina Gauza da, agerikoa bezain nabarmena, ikastetxe publikoetan metatzen say the sozio-ekonomiko bassua age atzerritara jutorri duten ikasleak. Eta gauza jakina said that, as a result of this accumulation of vulnerable students, the fundamental right of all boys and girls to education on an equal footing is considerably reduced, and that this also greatly reduces their present and future expectations. There are many researchs and data which prove this reality. And as an example, it was published last week, together with the Steilas union and the inspection institution, that shows the segregation of students from the origin of Gastia. Estos datos son absoloutamte desproporciante agreed: Solo en tres de los dus instititos en Gasteiz se concentra 84% del lyumbado de origen inmigrant. Looking at this awful, serious reality, we ask you: Is it just in a short time when you're going to take care of all those shilling data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u135	Yeah. Mrs. President of the Parliament. González andrea, school segregation is a complex phenomenon that responds to multiple factors, such as the socio-urban structure of the territories, the socio-economic and socio-linguistic characteristics of its population, its cultural patterns, and even the geographical location of the centers and the residential distribution of the students themselves. Horrible, erroneous hours hezkuntza-politika poliketatik haratago doa eta gizarte osoa hartzen du. Eta errornka horri aurre Egyptiana, ez da nahikoa arrita tokian-tokian jartzea −zuk aipatzen duzun Gasteizi buruzko txostenaren kasuan bezala−; horrez gain, jarduera orikatzaileak egin beharko ditugu hiru lurraldeetan eta, beraziki, hiriburuetan. Mrs González, there are many initiatives that we have in place that we know are working and have been reinforced by new proposals and resources. We have specific educational reinforcement programs, curriculum diversification, complementary schooling and support outside school hours; language reinforcement teacher; interculturality programs; Eusle classroom initiative; and the new Eraldatzen program, a program for high complexity centers to improve school success from an inclusive approach. We agree that all these undertakings must be completed by the rules of planning and compact, and by the succession. This, indeed, is the commitment to the consent of the fundamentals.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u136	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u137	Sailburu yellow, jakitune gare egoeraren jakitune zaretela. However, we are also aware that not only a mere package of measures or initiatives like you mentioned that are aimed at correcting segregation will face a problem that we consider structural. Zoritxarrez, hezkuntza-systemen error-error substrautitako gaitza da segregazionea. Hainera, daukagu clays, ze etenbe ari da igotzen azken bi hamarkadetan. And the solution is not through measures or initiatives that mitigate the mild symptoms of segregation. The only solution we understand is to transform those structures that sustain and consolidate segregation. And what are these structures? Well, to mention two, one is the ownership of the centers and the other, the duality of the system. Guk argi daukagu eta hezkuntza-komunitateak ere argi dauka that for schooling to be done in a balanced way and discrimination to be reduced, the key is school planning. And what about planning? Because the planning is currently addicted and contaminated with origin, from the start. How can the Board of Education decide if he has not an absolute legal authority over the number of schools that have a private headline on the number of squares to be offered in each place? The private sector negotiates six-year planning, and stable planning does not vary. In the public sector, however, the Department determines annually the number of school places to be offered and leaves public schools in an unstable situation. Laster argitaratuko dira Planifikazio eta Kontzertazio Dekretuak. Zuen skuetan daude. And these are going to be the first milestones after the signing of the agreement that will mark the direction of your Department's policies. Eta expect dugu norabide onean garatzea. Hitzarmena adotu dugu, bai. And even if it is not the perfect agreement for which we defend the public school, we believe that if in the short, medium term the measures envisaged in these decrees go in a positive direction towards the public school because they will be positive for all. That's all we're trying to say to you, that the fact that we've made an agreement doesn't mean we're gonna protect the law. I'll listen... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... For all of us. Horrekin guztiarekin esan nahi said hitzarmena lortu izanak ez duela esan nahi legea babestuko dugunik. Adi isango gaituzue. And we will be alert to work, as always, until the last moment, for public and egalitarian education in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u139	I'm sorry, I just got stuck in my throat. González andrea, being a complex challenge, we agree that additional measures and, above all, interinstitutional cooperation are needed. We know the importance of this issue, and we endorse the commitments contained in the basic agreement. At this point, I would like to mention this specific line of development of the activities belonging to the agreement; A fight against equity and segregation. We're trying to encourage the active process of education with community 2023, in order that the bond against the segregation of the school may be obtained. We are working on improving the admission and planning of students, and we will adapt the regulations, taking into account the programming of the educational offer of the whole system, the implementation of the specific measures for equity and school inclusion and social cohesion, as well as the determination of the reserve of school places for students with specific educational needs. Educational areas will also be defined, with a view to ensuring greater heterogeneity in the social composition of the area, with sufficient provision of school places to meet the educational needs. Ildo beretik, berandu eskolatutako ikasleen eskolatzea kudeatu behar dugu, ikasle zurgarrien segregazio indizia manditu ez dadin, jaja segregazio-indizia altua duten ikastetxeetan. We also want to give greater prominence to local educational councils, in order to jointly define the necessary actions in order to avoid the segregation of students for socio-economic or other reasons. In addition, we will promote the rationalization of the planning that in the current context of birth loss allows a supply adjusted to the needs of the demand, avoiding the envelopes and infra-offers that can contribute to the segregation. Guztiz bat catazzen proposeamenetarako batzuk besterik ez dira horiek, éta badakigu ordezkatzen duzun tadeak guztiz partakatzen dituela. It won't be easy, because it's going to be very complicated. But at the same time the established principles will be of great importance to this, and the inevitable harmony against the segregation, let us really have a positive position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u140	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Ask me, Amaia Martíne Mistila Mistto, a member of the Vox team, a member of the Board of Education, who doesn't know two official foreign students when schooled in the Basque Autonomy Es. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u141	Thank you, Madam President. At the end of September 2021 the Department of Education of the Basque Government publicly introduced the EUSLE programme, to equip the newly arrived student to the Basque educational system with the initial communicative competence in Basque. It was the official start of a pilot project that, in two years, has gone from 40 to 400 students, and from being implementing in 4 schools to being in 28. In this context, the Basque Government is preparing special language immersion classes for all students arriving in our community from Ukraine. For this reason, Mr Bildarratz, we ask you: what is the approach taken by the Government to offer foreign pupils who have just arrived and are not familiar with the two official languages special language immersion classes when they are attending the Basque Autonomous Community?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u142	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u143	Mrs Martínnez, Mr. President of the Parliament. First of all, I take your question to show my solidarity with the suffering of the Ukrainian people and to show our absolute condemnation of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. As a starting point, there are already more than 265 boys and girls in our education system, and we will do everything we need to equip them with everything they need. Turning to the question you raise, the newly arrived student in the Basque educational system - depending on his/her personal, socio-economic, cultural and previous schooling situation - presents a number of different educational needs, which require an inclusive, comprehensive and at the same time responsive response to those needs. In this context, the aim of the EUSLE programme, in addition to achieving the level of linguistic competence necessary to be able to approach the curriculum so that they can achieve school success, is also to respond to the specific needs of this student as regards his emotional well-being as an essential factor in being able to address the educational process with guarantees of success. In this sense it is key to carry out a systematic reception process with the families and the student himself, and to respond in a personalized way to the incorporation of this student into our educational system. In addition, as far as objectives are concerned, coordination and collaboration are being undertaken with families in order to provide them with the necessary resources to involve them in the educational process of their sons and daughters, and to make them feel part of the centre project and acquire a sense of belonging to it. As you can see, the purpose of the EUSLE programme goes far beyond language competence, and in my next speech I will be able to give you more details of those objectives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u144	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u145	The lack of transparency in everything that has to do with the EUSLE programme and the special immersion classes is the reason for the question that we are asking you today from Vox, Mr Bildarratz. A lack of transparency that further highlights the compulsory immersion in Basque to which foreign children and young people who arrive at our schools are being subjected, perhaps also those who attend school here from other autonomous communities; in this matter there is also opacity. The reality is that, today, 400 foreign children spend about 12 hours a week learning Basque intensively; only Basque, not Spanish, despite not knowing either of the two official languages of the Basque Autonomous Community. Why is the euskera learning put ahead of the Castilian? If we review the EUSLE program, we read that based on the current Heziberri educational framework... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... Autonomous Basque. Why is the euskera learning put ahead of the Castilian? If we review the EUSLE program, we read that on the basis of the current Heziberri educational framework we must offer all students the same educational opportunities and curricular aids for their academic and personal progress. The Basque Government's solution: compulsory language immersion classes in Basque. We read that education is based on the principle of equity and equal opportunities. The Basque Government's solution: compulsory language immersion classes in Basque. We read that school failure is due to a lack of linguistic competence in the language of the vehicle. The Basque Government's solution: compulsory language immersion classes in Basque. And so throughout a document that goes further in ensuring proper competition in Basque and contributing to its normalisation. And it is marked as an objective to accelerate and improve the processes of learning to acquire Basque as a vehicle language. Not a single reference to Castilian, the majority language of the Basque Country and co-official along with Basque. Not one. Mr Bildarratz, the use of Basque as a language of training is entirely discriminatory. These minors, at best, will get the intended teens in Basque and will have to learn Spanish by their own means. Or are Spanish immersion classes also being prepared to improve your language skills? The school fees of his department are the ones that determine which centre the newly arrived foreign minors are enrolled in. These 400 students have finished in classes of linguistic immersion in Basque in schools where the model to follow is that of Basque as a vehicle language. Have you had another choice? Has it been a free decision by parents who are fully informed of their right to choose freely how to educate their children? The current law in force establishes three models of bilingual teaching: A, B and D. But, well, this is a legality, because..., on paper, because then it's not real. In practice, we all know that today it is practically impossible to study in Spanish by choosing model A. And it is because the Basque Government has been eliminating it to the extreme that in the province of Gipuzkoa it is practically impossible to find a school that offers it. On the other hand, Mr Juanjo Agirrezala, from the Government Delegation in Gipuzkoa, has also told us that the Eusle programme is for all children who join the Basque education system. But, curiously, I quote his words, "A child who comes from Salamanca for these purposes is a foreigner." What do you have to tell us, Mr. Bildarratz? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u146	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u147	Martínez andrea, the student participating in the Eusle program has a personalized action plan linked to training proposals and tutoring activities in which the socio-emotional well-being of this student has a priority character. For this reason, we work intensively with them in this area. Thus, the general objective of the Eusle programme is to provide the newly incorporated student in the Basque Educational System enrolled in public primary and secondary education institutions with an effective and adapted response to their educational needs both in terms of acquiring language competence that allows them to walk sufficiently to successfully address their academic process and in terms of their emotional well-being and monitoring and support in their learning process to achieve successful educational inclusion. I know you won't mind what I tell you. But I'm going beyond that. The specific objectives of the Eusle programme are - two points - to: first, to ensure a good reception; secondly, to collaborate with families by providing them with resources so that they can achieve better understanding and greater involvement in the educational processes of their children; thirdly, to provide specific educational support to students and develop participatory active actions and methodologies; fourthly, to offer an action... attention - pardon - to offer personalized attention to emotional, relational, socializing and school aspects, but also to the academic orientation of students; fifthly, to develop and evaluate the basic skills to successfully address their learning process, I repeat, to develop and evaluate the basic skills to successfully address their learning process; sixthly, to coordinate with municipal services for the follow-up of students and their families. However, we are constantly monitoring the various actions to make the necessary adjustments for a better adaptation of students and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u148	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Second point on the subject list: "The Internation, by the Congressmen of the Culturals of the Culturals, and the Chief of the Arts, Creator, and Cultur Worker's State Dreams of the Acquisitions of the Cultural State." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u149	Thank you, Mr. President, for reading such a long title. And good noon to all. Mr. Chief physician, good noon to you. Congress of the Congress of the Spanish Kingdom, which has been working for many months, accepted the new state of the artist on September 6th, 2018. It is a report which is being used as a sheet of legal procedure, and I shall not speak of it today, or do not go too deeply into it, because we have spoken of it before and of it, but I would like to insist that this report was developed with the wide scope of culture and with political agreement. This process, which had been effected in general by most of the cultural system's agents, was fully comprehended. And here we tried to bring him back to us, but these government groups, pues, had been locked up about a year ago, we discussed it exactly on March 21st, 2021. And we tried to create a group of works which would support the manifold variety and wide participation of the cultural system, but which, as we said, you didn't want, and the government decided to act on its own initiative. During this year, it's a year ago, and we've asked you a good deal of questions and information about the state, and we've been trying to figure out the circumstances of the trial. That interest has also been socialized, and I'm sure it's all settled... The answer has been limited, and in some cases critically answered. And we found out that you'd been hired outside as a culture sector and as far as we are concerned. And we followed this job, and in the third, we got it. And we've already checked that report. And it's where the artist's Berdefs are collected... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and in the third, we obtained it. And we've already checked that report. And in it there is a reflection of the late artist's definition, of the IAE, of CNAE, of the CNAE, of the different taxies, and also of some consequences in this report; and we share some of them, and have other consequences, and we also know that even the sectors are uncertain, and that you have probably been in the form of government and due to the relations and society of those who have worked and done it. And to make this clear, even to assist us in agreeing with both propositions and measures, we will present the whole decency to-day. So we invite you to stay together. And with the sector at the co-ordination of the main councils of the three historical areas. After all, as the result of the report is, how many rules of the Stateed Euscals of the artist should be formed, and in the tax-genera, the measures of each historical territory must be developed. And I think, moreover, that the time has come, and we have hitherto acted somehow on each side and on your own, but at this stage we think it's important to act at the same time. And why? What's the time for that at the moment? On the one hand, and the principal, because it is necessary to answer a state of many years, but that very week on the 22nd of March, the Government of the Spanish Kingdom accepted the first proportion of the State of the artist by a decree of kingly decree. And some of these today have already taken effect since April 1st, 2022. Some of the facts are very important. This new rule produces on the one hand an artistic contract of work so necessary. And that's the one that's answering the interference. That's a very important matter, as you know. Then he extends the definition of public spectacles, and consequently, as far as he is concerned, will not oblige him to act on stage alone. And this is also an important element, though it seems very simple. And three, technical activities, and the Auxilians, are also received, and this decree adapts itself to new artistic expressions of culture, even to new realities. And the rules of remuneration of contracts are also changed, and the professionals of culture are not applied to the "unincentivions" introduced in the reformed work for less than 30 days; and this also is an important element. And the application of this Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzian, will have a direct influence on it, and for the peculiarity we have, as well as for that which we have, and as culture is consistent, we have clearly proved that it is necessary to be the natural Eucal State of Arts to be developed by special characters. And that's the opinion we share with the Zulus, at least some time ago. And now, from this decree, the time has come. I mean, so far. and it's quite natural that we should have waited, unfortunately, because we haven't had any jurisdiction, and that we've had to wait for what's been decided in Madrid once before, but there's a few jobs ahead of us that you've been in contact with the report or the Euscal Office of Culture in recent years or with the aliens. And now is the time and moment for concretion. What are we supposed to do now? On the one hand, the collective heterogeneity, which enters into the term of the artist, has once been defined in the decree, we have some peculiarities, and we have the margin to be received by the IAE and by their subepigraphs. And we're going to make sure that they're well-ordered. We have to bring tax recommendations to our tax regulations, which are very important for the State of the Congress of Congress, which will lead to work. And yet we have a number of rights to take measures in the field of labour and Social Security, some of which are important. For example, it is because we know how to manage active employment policies, and because we have a great deal of work in our health to regulate them. It is an important step to solve the problem of culture and eupscal culture, which we ought to give, and which, I think, we shall give, and we must boldly do, if we are to suppose a quantum leap from consent to cultural politics. It is now time to determine a suitable frame of rule which will enable and facilitate creation, for the purposes of professional culture and creative conditions. It is by this decree that the contractation of the minimal conditions of work has been regulated by this decree, but we must conform to the order of protection and protection, combine the incomes of retirement and privileges, adapt the prosecution, facilitate the finance, extend, and increase the options of international maintenance. And that's what we're going to do. And for that challenge, sharing and agreeing with the designs and decisions of beautiful culture is indispensable to us. And I don't think, I don't think, just as you yourself have confessed, Mr. Zupiria, that it will suffice with the Council of the Basque Cultura, which must be extremely well adapted, at least not alone, but at least not alone. And to agree to proposals and measures, to make them design, we have all decency to assist them in, as I have said before. Along with the Sector, with the principal councils of the three historical regions, and even with the municipal councils, although their circle was small. And we, as many others, have knowledge in this country, because we have knowledge, that we have knowledge, that we have knowledge, that we can make knowledge, and dispute about them. And that's why today, Mr. Zupiria, we're showing you the absolute will to act in a position to be a complete achievement of the creative artist and a stately cult, and we'd like to know what's the meaning of fun in this sense... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... We're giving you the perfect will to act, and we'd like to know what's the purpose of making fun of you in this sense.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u150	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u151	Congressmen, all good days. It is one of the most important commitments of our division of legislation to the culture of the professionals. From the very beginning of the legislation we expressed our intention, and thus it is received in our government program by 112. I'm committed. Literally: "Two: To improve the conditions of the professionals in culture, by adapting tax regulations to the peculiarities of culture, and applying tax collectors, and the formulas of Mezenazine y which facilitates development. Three: To determine the code of suitable methods in hiring professionals of culture, to agree and establish it in conjunction with the other euscal institutions which are reproached with beautiful cultures. " The culture creation has certain features in our country, and it has some very important features. The first is certainly talent and quality. At the same time, the chances of formation. There is also a strong and stable system of public support for creation, thirdly. And four people respond to this creation, which offers the confession and economic protection of society. These are important forces, but we also have areas to get stronger. And to-day is one of those things which we are able to talk about: to consider the peculiarities of culture, authors, and professionals, and to give proper answers to them. There is no doubt that this subject requires "special anger," you have acted on it, and so have we. And we have clearly seen that this anxiety must be introduced into the nice cultures of the institutions, and that's what we're doing. We began this way of legislation by proposing several actions, for example, and we are now discussing the manner in which model procedures can be identified by the influence of a system of culture. We also proposed to employ the options of a special tax on the income of physical persons. The object of this proposition was to promote the vitality and permanence of creation by the rule. And all this we began to discuss as important matters in the HOOKS. It is because the agreement and co-ordination we have mentioned are indispensable, and, at the same time, we must seek co-ordination and proprieties with the progress of the State. In like manner, our opinion of this subject has been communicated to the ministers of Spain, and we worked in close terms with EAJ's parlamentary group in the Congress of the Spanish Districts in 2018 September to determine the contents of the report of the state of the artist, and then to support the enterprise. As you will remember, the report 2018 gathers around three major sections: the tax system, work protection, and social security, and the compatibility of money. As to the tax system, the measures were proposed: the tributation of irregular profit, the removal of expenses, the maintenance of taxation over the income of poor physical persons, the intellectual property, and the modification of the VAT. As to the protection of work and social security, the union of dialogues and delegations, change of autonomous work, revision of the tax duties on economic activities, preparations, bonds and settlements, transitions of professions, industry, a revision of public performances and performance contracts. To end the position of the basic text of the artist's State 2018, the third section was compatibilityd with money: the classification of the rights of authors, and the preparation of campaigns and interviews. In 2018, the report was accepted by a hope window opened for the sector and even for public institutions on the way to obtain a suitable basis for the purpose mentioned. And the document has since been regarded as the basis of the course to improve the activity and rights of the creators and culture workers of artists. We have reminded each time of the importance and the need of the development of the State of the artist's State of culture from our series of cultures. And not just to remind them, but we've even offered to cooperate. And we know that because they told us so, the examination and documents we gave them have been useful to them in this process. Since the 2018th time the Spanish Government has proposed different decisions by the Decrees of the Kings voted and approved in Congress. And these royal codes have been protected by the parlamentary groups of EAJs and PSE in the Spanish courts. The first was admitted in December 2018, on artistic and visible creation, and on their prosecutorship. With these measures brought here in the Euskal Autonomi Eremic, by means of the formulas accepted by the General Assembly of Indulous Councils... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... Having brought these measures here in the Euskal Autonomical Eremic, by the rules of the grand assemblies supported by the malcontents, they are in force from one of January, 2019. And the main measures taken in these changes were two. On the one hand, to regain a smaller VAT for artistic activity, and to reduce two, in addition to certain profits produced in artistic activity, the upper portion of the Federal Person's revenue. The royal columns of 2018 mentioned had also adopted other measures in the area of work and social security, and were three masters. First, a new article to regulate the lack of performances of artists in the theatres which lie in the general regime of the safety of society. To make two revenues derived from the reward of retirement and artistic creation compatible. And three, as commitments, regulating the relationships of artists for public spectacles. 3rd In connection with this engagement, the Spanish Government has agreed on the 22nd of this year, as you have mentioned, that the royal decree which will continue to take place from this day forward, which will have to be a vote in Congress. And you mentioned the contents and I won't repeat them. All these resolutions, therefore, which have hitherto been taken, proceed in the course of the great furrows established in the document 2018. In three respects it belongs to the government of two Spanish States, and the third to that of the prosecutor, which belongs to our member Autonomy, and is the jurisdiction of the Aldudias and of the principal assemblies. In this sense, we have a strong commitment in the cultural section to promote the cooperation of the institutions in the prosecution area. To take steps in the Hooli coordination organ, if the forduns find it right. And that's what we're talking about. We are searching for the agreement between the equivocations and the almond trees, the measures we seek to be effective for the creators, and that we may promote the persistence of the culture of our country. It is a very complex subject, and, as far as our organization architecture is concerned, it is necessary first and once to acquire this consistent character among the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u152	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u153	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. And thank you for your explanation, Mr. Zupiria. I agree with you that the subject is complex, and that as many measures as are to be implemented... even our... that the result of the institutional training requires difficulty and co-ordination. You have mentioned that in 2018 the government of Spain had been adapted to several formulae rules, which have been established since the age of 2019. That it wasn't BESA's, that it wasn't a small matter. And then, conjugation. But that's what we've done so far. This is what has come from Spain, its application on one side. And then, as to the degree of interaction, you yourself have mentioned the circumstances in which you've used the interviews, and above all, that's the nature of the institutions in the background of institutions. And you moved. And we think, considering the complexity of −eta, we think it's a time to go beyond. It is a moment beyond that, and we believe that if there is will, in respect of the main group of oppositions, you must also make use of that opportunity for each other. And we tried here and by the means that this law offers us, to form a form of ponciency, and from this excellence it might be useful to the culture agent, the culture agent, the creation, and the people, to do this work with certain consequences, and that this might be useful to us. But you didn't want to, and then, kalaro, there's a moment coming now, so we don't know how to do that. We're in touch with worshippers, too, and they tell us, they're always asking them how. But then they don't participate in the design of these politics, and still less in the decisions. That is to say, they are afterwards discovered. And yes, you're executives, but I think it's proved that even in this legislation there has been an education agreement, that things can be made in another way and can be built. And we think that's what we need. Soon, at the beginning of Astorion yesterday, the name of Gaste will be here. In three hours' time, it will enter Gastheiz in three hours, and I believe it will be useful to set up our culture and culture in that direction, the unity of our language, the common work that surrounds the eucalyptus. I've told you many times. Yes, language, language, and it makes us people, culture makes us citizens, and people make people. And we want the Basque Country that we dream of, a people of cult. And for that, we have to look after our creators. And we ask you for courage, Mr. Zupiria. We have to be brave. We have to make a strong bet, and it's time to make a special effort. A medical student. That is to say, to draw a little out of your confort field, and to do it with all transparency, to place the cultists and creators in the centre of the cultured politics and the decisions. Let's take care of them too, let's take care of them in this sense. And let us take measures in a manner shared, giving them the importance of culture, and the answers adapted to its peculiarity. By establishing the foundations of the future, and by which we need it now, we have a choice, and now is the place for it. Stated by plurality, participation, consent, by artist, by creator and by culture... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... choice, and now is the place for it. The stately eucalyptus of plurality, participation, harmony, artist, creator, and culture, in order that it may be a reality before it is too late.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u154	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u155	Chief of Parliament, Mr. Estarrona. You've given me an educational arrangement as an example. It's the power of this autonomy community of education, it's the funk and the decisions it makes. This legislature will not take up decisions concerning the matter you have proposed to me to-day: some will present the Spanish Government and the Courts of Spain, and some will be admitted in the Supreme Council. You can't vote either. Your party can't vote either. Then I think we should put each thing in its place. And you asked for courage. That we have been brave, that we have entered into a part which we have no jurisdiction, and that we are continually pushing to some and others, in order to obtain what we have set down as a purpose. And what have we done for that and what are we doing? Well, on the one hand, we've made all those reports you know, to bring the light, and we've put them in the hands of all the organizations, both in the hands and in the hands of the Spanish government, and in the hands of the rebels. This phase of study is over, we're working together with the bandits, and I think we've taken a very important step at the beginning of March. After the examination of these reports, we have agreed that we all must review and adapt the tax system of artists, creators, or culturers, to these measures. And this agreement, not only the HACHABA, of which the representatives of the cults are present, is also set up in the Esucaian Cega Coordination organ. Based on this agreement, the next step is to define the changes which should be established in the tax-house, Aran, Gipuz, and Bizka. It's a great complexity with its homework. And these domestic works are principally two: On the one hand, we must specify the universe, as the Eucharist's account of the Cultural Watchery said. Who is the artist, the creator, or the artisan? It is a manifold and extensive culture, and, in this case, we must strategize and determine this perimeter. Our intention is not to guess the definitions, but to determine which should apply this new prosecution, and which should not be decided by mistake. And the second job of the house was: what is a cult cult or culture? What's the case we're going to take as a cult, and then who's going to apply this new prosecution to, and it's not gonna be a decision for fun, it's gonna be the coolest Foru and the Grand Council. And we'll be working on it, working with the HABA, working with the sectors, listening and answering, and looking for the consent. And in the same way, we will give the Spanish Government information and encouragement in the parts of his power. We've asked the Minister what new steps he has to take around this subject, and his answer has been that next week in Seville he'll give more information about the new sizes he's planning around the artist in the literary conference between the organizations he's called in Seville. And we always have it open, as I said before, to present to us the measures which might be taken at the Basque Council of − Kultura, and then to accept those measures which are offered by the members of our great councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-01.u156	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and at thirty-three.
