ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. I inform you that the sixteenth point has been withdrawn and has been left seventeen for another. First point in theme list: "The question is, "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the Society of Miracyon Ipiñaz, the lawmakers of the Society, made to the chief physician of equality, justice, and society, in favor of equality, and of a society without machinative violence, especially among young generations." Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good morning to all. On the third of March, as we know, the commander of the estate was admitted to the law with an extensive consent and equality between women and women. Since 2005, the adaptation of this law has produced a very important progress, and will, as it is, in the power of women, and in the way of the free and free course of our lives; the title of the new law tells us something. In turn, Euskadi has joined the commemoration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Fourth World Conference of Women in Beijing; since it is a global benchmark for equality policies, and Euskadi has always been aligned with the international framework in this area. The declaration adopted in this framework established two major global strategies to promote equality between women and men, which are still in force today. On the one hand, the empowerment of women and girls, and on the other hand, the integration of the gender perspective in all spheres of life. In this context, and following the adoption of our law, the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy announced the launch of a participatory process for a country pact for equality and a society free of macho violence. We need a political, institutional and social consensus that shows without hesitation, without cracks and without half ink the firm commitment of this country to the real and effective equality of women and men. We must continue to work and take steps towards the empowerment of women, the full exercise of their rights, their space in all spheres of life. In order, ultimately, to end inequality and violence; and that requires us not to stop in this struggle. So, based on it, and as responsible for the beautiful eucalyptic eucalyptic eucalyptic eucaments, we would like to ask you this question from our team: what is the time at which it is, especially to the younger generations, to cultivate and social association for equality and without machiotic violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u3	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. The process towards a pact for equality and free lives of violence against women will be presented in society on 15 June at an event to preside over the lehendakari. Esta inlicativa nos ha permitideo reflexionar y compartir informo y conocimentos e Ignor conjuntamentte un futero utilitarium. I remind you that we have pushed this process into the international initiative of Genation Equality, driven by the United Nations. 4. Of the World of Women in Beijing. He set out to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the conference. Thus the inheritance of the women who participated in the conference of the world is the object of new generations to ensure that equality will prosper in the future. We've taken advantage of the chance that Gravitation Equality offers us as a people to give us one more step in our commitment to equality. In the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy we already have the commitments that shape this pact. This agreement is the result of a participatory working process. We have managed to involve more than 400 people from different social, economic and political sectors of our country in the process of drafting this pact. Thirty-seven working groups have been established, comprising 452 women and men, who have followed the United Nations methodology, adapted to the reality of Euskadi. A key focus of the Generation Equality initiative is intergenerational transmission. This initiative has made it possible to manage the legacy of those pioneers, because we believe that Basque youth should be committed to that global chain. You have to understand and learn how your equality rights have been built and get involved... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... with that global chain. You have to understand and learn how your equality rights have been built and get involved in their development so that these rights will be consolidated in the future. We believe and want the generation of our sons and daughters to be the generation of equality. We are moving towards a more advanced egalitarian society from the belief that feminism is freedom. We are convinced that young women are already the main lever for social change, but we are very clear that we must be able to turn men into agents of change. This pact will be a new step in this chain towards effective equality. Local organizations, sports field, education centers, third sector associations, corporations, etc. have been involved in this process. All engagements taken, six points of peculiar importance marked by the United Nations: the machista, justice, and economic rights against women, the autonomy of the body, the rights and health in sex and reproduction, the feminist action for climate justice, the technology for equality of genera, and the feminist of movement and leader. We want this pact to make it possible to do another education of equality that teaches us what are the most urgent challenges Euskadi has for progress towards equality, which challenges the whole of society, because it is a country pact that looks to the future, a pact that wants to accelerate the progress of equality in our country and a pact that conveys the value and legacy of equality to the next generations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question of the parliamentary members of the Maddalen Irina Irina Presidency to the president." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. The European Union requires a direct light to enable the political communities which have expressed the will to determine their independence of the States to consult it? That's a very specific question. In fact, Euko MUDY refused to ask for a direct light in Europe against what you agreed to in 2018. Why, Mr. Urkullu? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Good morning. Mrs. Irriart. The President's opinion is clear, it's written down, and he's sent to Europe in front of our conference about the future of Europe. I believe that the agreements which the members of the States have established between the United States and the parliaments of their community are to be respected within the limits of the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u9	Mr. President, I've read that document. I've been listening carefully to what I said in Donostian when I said so in Corsica. And yes, but no, but yes. The question is, either in the government position, or perhaps in the attitudes of the president, we'll have to ask the government sociferation that we've seen another step back in defence of the independence of the Basque Country. In point of fact, he was more tame than ever, and now you have proposed to leave everything in the hands of the Spanish State. A agreement by agreement and similar words. You will say that realism, or perhaps you will say that we have understood nothing, pero lo lo hemos entenddo perfectamente, señor Urkullu. Para su Gobierno, Esaña aenare poder de vesto cualquier acerdo de la sociedad vasca respecto al futurro yien además que así sea. And if Spain should decide in a discourteous manner not to exercise this right, then it is required that Europe should be led by it. No solo no henmos entendio aquaí, que la propia Córcega le preguntado por qué ese emño en achantarese ante Madrid. The European Union does not need the mechanism you propose. Remember that every door of Brussels was open in the refendum of Scotland, it was not necessary. But in the Basque Country, yes. The Basque Country really is a strategy that will dig deep in the automatically. In the conference about the future of Europe, namely, Determination Caucusa is developing a mechanism of clarity in a democratic way to direct European taste to the conditions of integration. The proposal has been a real vote, even if PSOE and PP are vetato. But we continue to work, because we see it possible, considering legal and consistent references, and considering references like Quebec and Scotland, to make a way. And you announce that you are now making revolt by despising the rights of this people and protecting only the form of government. Why do you look at Madrid when the majority is an excessist? That's what they asked you. And I ask you too, and I add: why do you deny that some majority may bring in breaches for the purpose of declaring their right, and that the veto and revolt committed in it does not bring them back, that it is the divider? Look, we've seen what happened in Castile-Leon and, unfortunately, it may not be an exception. In this State the Supreme Court ignores the European Court of Human Rights. And Paco will come with the discount, so to speak, as always Paco will come with the discount, but this step will not be needed. Eta gero ikusten dugu, ba, orduan eta gehiago obeditu, zurre gobernu sozioak orduan eta gehiago eta gehiago eskatzen duela, orduan eta errentzia gehiago egin, okerrago. I don't know if it's talk, fireworks, that everyone wants to feed their parish... But I believe that at this political moment it is up to us to have material sovereignty and political power without abandoning our responsibilities. To build this people as a nation, to support material and political waste and to achieve it, we must build a share of ground, not to leave no one aside, but without reference, without consenting to any one else, because it will be for the good of all, because it will be for the good of our future. And we, Mr. Urkullu, are ready.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... We're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. All right, Mrs. Iriarte, why are you going to Madrid? Are you going to Madrid looking at Madrid? Are you going to Madrid to make it fall to the 1978 regime by negotiating with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? I believe that the agreements obtained between the members of the States and the institutions of their political communities will be respected in the first resort. The direct light you mention might be one of the possible contrivances, as was admitted in its time to form relations between Quebec and Canada. But this is not the only mechanism. We had another example in 2014 of the relations of Scotland and the United Kingdom. Mechanisms can be various. It's not about closing doors and limiting to a single option. As to the government of democracy, the object is to open the doors and options of understanding one another, and the solutions agreed upon. There is no contradiction between the document of Europe or the future of Europe in 2018, and the 24th of May in the Council of Government, and the proposals which I then presented before the Atlantic Committee. Both propositions have the same meaning and purpose. The second one does not reject the possibilities, but only opens them. On Monday I made a speech in the presence of the Corsican lift. Why are the Corsicans looking at Paris? I determined some of the proposals which I received in the document of the future of Europe. And he will quote three: to promote a convention on a multi-level government, to create a number of works which will increase in a more powerful and accustomed sphere of coworkership, to acknowledge the capacity of legislative enterprises in the Constitution. Mrs. Iriarte, I read you the proposal in its entirety. "Amparo in terms of democratic governance implies the possibility for citizens to participate in decisions on structural issues that affect them as a society. In order to deepen the democratic values on which European integration is based, it is proposed to establish mechanisms to ensure that the agreements reached between the parliamentary institutions of their Member States and their political communities are respected in order to exercise their will to decide on their status of sovereignty, co-oberanity or interdependence with respect to the Member State to which they belong." And the proposal continues with other possible circumstances, such as those that could be given in Ireland at this time. Mechanisms can be diverse. And I remind you that both the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu have regretted that COFOE, the Conference on the Future of Europe, did not accept the proposal for a directive on clarity. And this is the reality, Mrs. Iriarte. Mrs Iriarte, we are part of the European Union. And it does not come further who shouts more, but who reaches more agreements. Progress is the result of patiently and insistently building spaces for governance, agreement and cooperation. And this is our way: firmness in the principles, clarity in the objectives and flexibility in the paths. We move step by step with patience and determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u13	Thank you, President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of María Jesús San José Lózez's Euskalist team members of the Socialist Society of Planting, Housing, and the head physician of the transportation department, concerning the assignment of the housing organizations associated with the composition of the victims of the genus force." Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Vence Prefect, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Mr. Arriola, good morning. On the road to achieving effective and real equality of women and men we find ourselves with the most terrible consequence of inequalities: violence against women, violence suffered by women. The biggest problem we face as a country that must challenge all public authorities, including the judiciary. For a democratic society, for a decent society, it is unacceptable for women to live in fear, threatened or tortured. The commitment of the Socialists is firm. And we know that the eradication of macho violence must be a country commitment. It is necessary to continue to progress step by step, without retreating, without taking any step backwards, until all women can live free and without fear. The coalition government programme between Basque Socialists and Nationalists includes the initiative to improve the procedures for awarding and the requirements for access to housing in order to favour victims of gender-based violence. And in the Housing Master Plan, the current Master Plan 2021-2023, is the attention to victims of gender-based violence with quotas of allocation and incorporation of the third sector in the development of a social housing network with accompaniment. More specifically, it is intended to maintain the battery of actions coming from the previous Master Plan in the search for housing solutions with a programme for the direct award of housing to women victims of gender-based violence. The Basque Government has signed an inter-agency agreement with other professional administrations and groups to improve the care of women victims of violence against women. Its purpose is to promote coordination between the institutions involved in the Basque Autonomous Community in assisting women victims of abuse and sexual violence, in order to guarantee them comprehensive protection and care in their health, police, judicial and social fields. Given its significance, and in its capacity as head of the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport of the Basque Government, the Basque Socialists' parliamentary group asks the following question: How does the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport favour women victims of macho violence in the housing award processes? Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u15	Thank you, Mrs. San José. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours. [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ...president, Mrs. San José. Indeed, every year from the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, we take measures to alleviate the consequences and effects of gender-based violence in the field related to housing needs. These actions, as you have pointed out, are currently part of the second interinstitutional agreement for the improvement of care for women victims of domestic abuse and sexual violence, signed between the Basque autonomous, foral and municipal administrations, the judiciary and medical professionals. From our department we articulate two types of measures to promote the access of women victims of abuse to social housing. The first, of a general nature, is to give priority in the award processes to those who are accredited as victims. As you know, access to sheltered housing is achieved through a process of scheming, in which situations of greatest need of applicants take precedence over situations of greatest need depending, in particular, on the age of registration, the number of members of the community unit and the income. Since the end of 2019 these parameters are also reconciled with a quota system, so that in all promotions a certain number of dwellings are reserved to meet the needs of different groups. Women victims of gender-based violence are one of those priority care groups, and are included in the special need quota. In addition, from the housing area, and in view of the severity of such situations, they are exempted from meeting certain mandatory requirements for discharge in the Etxebide registry. One of them is that of minimum income, so that they can be discharged without any prior income needing to be credited, and they also have no obligation to comply with the requirement of registration in the municipality in which the housing is targeted and requested, allowing for greater mobility and an improvement in the possibilities of awarding. Over the past three years, this system, the regular award procedure, has facilitated access to housing for 312 women victims of ill-treatment: 85 in Alava, 173 in Bizkaia and 54 in Gipuzkoa. But in addition, for cases of greater vulnerability, i.e. for women in municipal or out-of-town housing resources, the Housing Department conducts direct awards. These assumptions always come with the endorsement of municipal basic social services or out-of-town services, and are treated as a social emergency. Between 2019 and 2021 128 victims have been the subject of so many other direct housing awards, 44 of them in Álava, 50 in Bizkaia and 34 in Gipuzkoa. Personally, I would like to be able to bring to this Parliament other data, and announce that with the same levels of attention from our department, the number of women served annually is decreasing, because that would also mean a decrease in the number of victims and in cases of gender-based violence, but unfortunately it is not. What remains invariable is the department's commitment to them and their situation. As a result, a total of 440 women have been favored by the award of social housing in Euskadi over the past three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u16	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the hatred of Mi is made together by the members of Podemos-To the President by the law of the Antice, the basis of the contract of the euscal education system in the future." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. Well, in February, it was at the Board of Education in February this year, in this Parliament, that poncia had published his first draft, which principles should have been to transform the educational system. Then we were very critical when the first draft of this power came out, because we saw that two elements were not necessarily received: On the one hand, the difference and public importance of public schools deserved to be preferred, did not appear anywhere, and on the other hand the measures against scrutination did not appear. With these two elements, besides criticizing our own review, we started to work. And after a negotiation, after a long and good negotiation, we managed to change that draft from top to bottom, and to insert these two elements, and to reflect on the concrete and precise measures. Now it's time... This was already admitted, the agreement was obtained. Now it's all about keeping that agreement, setting it up. And, further, it is necessary that governments, all the rules given by your government, or all the regulators of the Covenant, and even the Letter of the Covenant. And now we have just been informed that the order has been published, by which the process of changing the decree of planning begins. And here, in this given document, there is indeed a great many doubts about the sketches of the decree, the spirit and letter of the compact which the sketch of the new decree really respects. On the day of her age, nik horregatik galdetzen said, lehendakari, dja tute duzun dekretu honek, planifikazio dekreturan zirriborroak betetzen dueen hitzarmenarekin. I ask you, Mr Lehendakari, whether the draft of the planning decree complies with the spirit and the letter of the educational pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Hatch. This bill of legislation is working for you, you know? [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Hatch. I'm sure you're working on a good job to fill the peace with all your loyalty and all your transparency. And it's open with the teams, even with your team, when the last meeting was yesterday. The chairman wants us to appear at the Board of Education, and on June 20th, two weeks from now, he will present and share the work calendar for the next year. We've got specific job commitments to a certain calendar. The three hundred and fifty-three agreements which have been accepted in all, will give a definite answer. After one year's work, a strong and extensive contract has been made with the education community. And even in this legislature, the agreement between the four major teams has been signed. Last week, we made a deal with different unions in the Education field. We will assign new resources to schools, commitments, and new challenges to new challenges. And by dealing with this way we will be able to promote the climate of the consent of education. I'm sure we'll have to accept the consent of the new decree. And be sure, Madam, that Mrs. Hatred, there is no doubt that the decree will answer the spirit and the letter of a signed agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u21	The pact, after it is approved, needs to be taken care of. And so that the covenant will be taken care of, as I said before, so that the covenant... It must be pampered among all, we must pamper it. And in order for that to be done, it must, first of all, give value to the Follow-up Committee; and bring the Follow-up Committee together whenever necessary. Not only to inform, but also to participate in the design of regulations. And of course, to take care of the covenant, the rules that will come out, and the draft rules that will come out, they also have to reflect that spirit and the letter of the covenant. In this pact I put, among other things... There are two fundamental issues that have to do with what I said before. On the one hand, so that there is no segregation there can be no overoffer. On the other hand, there has to be a sufficient offer of public places. All this has to be ensured, it has to be guaranteed by the planning decree. And we have realities today, such as the following: in Orio, for example, there are 43 students in school. As it turns out, we have concerted schools that offer 75 places. That is, far above the squares that are needed. Meanwhile, the public school has eight plates. If we look at Oñate, also in Oñate there are 70 students who have to be in school, and there are 75 places offered in a school also arranged. Of course, this is over-offer, and this doesn't favor public school. And in the decree, in the draft decree, we see nothing that can end this situation. All public school-favoring agents have reported it. Therefore, I ask that the measures be taken to keep the spirit alive. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mrs Gorrotxategi, you say the pact must be taken care of. The pact must be taken care of by everyone, Mrs Gorrotxategi. Our commitment is to comply loyally with the educational pact reached in this Parliament. Education is a country objective, and we will move forward from the agreement; agreement with the educational community, with the AMPA, with the management of public institutions, with the network agreed, with the professionals, with the unions. And of course, the terms of the pact signed between the four majority groups of the House, including the centrality of the public school and measures against segregation. We are aware of the magnitude of the challenge. Ensure equity and equal opportunities, and continue to make progress in improving quality and excellence. We have already taken decisions in this area: stability of the faculty and call for public offers of employment; reduction of ratios; English since the age of three; improvement of physical education; free of charge of the Haurreskolak. Mrs Gorrotxategi, the Monitoring Committee on the Pact will meet on the 13th. And on the 20th the counselor will appear before the Education Commission to continue to move forward from the dialogue. It will present concrete commitments and the timetable for the implementation of the 43 actions agreed in four areas of action: equity and the fight against segregation; learning and continuous improvement; strategic planning of the education system; co-governance and participation. We're gonna need time. But, in any case, we reaffirm our commitment to the educational pact as a whole and to the loyal fulfilment of all the consensus reached. There are more agreements than disagreements, Mrs Gorrotxategi. And above all, it is much that we play, because we share, I think we share, the goal of transforming Basque education from consensus and collaboration. That's right, whoever you're willing to do it with. The pact has to be taken care of. Indeed. We all have to take care of him. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Basque, a member of the Ciudadans to the president, the president's attitude towards the petitions of the euscal chiefs." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u25	Thank you, ma'am, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. President, good morning. In recent months lehendakari, what seemed temporary has sown uncertainty about the desired recovery after the pandemic. We lived in a high-inflation scenario that we hadn't known for three decades. Energy costs that have only precedents in the oil crisis, back in the year 73. And the unjust invasion of Ukraine by Russia represents the worst aggression on European territory since World War II, with effects... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...there for the year 73. And the unjust invasion of Ukraine by Russia represents the worst aggression on European territory since World War II, with devastating economic effects. It is a perfect storm, lehendakari, of which we have had some warnings for months, and that some cases for many years: the report submitted by Zedarriak a few weeks ago, the Confebask warnings, or the voices like those of ADEGI, which warn of the narrowing of the margins of the companies, only ascertain the reality. A reality that we also denounce the political forces in this House, as we often do in the People's-Citizens' Party. The whole reading is very clear. As the entrepreneurs point out, Euskadi no longer holds leadership positions, unfortunately: we are less attractive, less competitive for economic activity, the companies that led this drive have undergone clear processes of uprooting, we are in line in number of entrepreneurs and we struggle to retain or attract talent, even to earn market shares. You know, lehendakari, you know the figures of the last decades, and you have recognized the emotional and social fatigue after the pandemic, despite our resilience. Other autonomous communities present data and actions from their governments that our companies envy. However, you - let me put it this way - burden the entrepreneurs, putting the self-employed at the forefront, accusing them of catastrophe, of defending their own interests and sometimes being away from reality, and rejecting the proposals of parties and economic sectors to reverse this situation. His government is the great collector, the great beneficiary of the record collection of outland haciendas. It has important instruments such as the Economic Concert, but it remains paralyzed, in our view. Therefore, I ask you, lehendakari: how do you appreciate the recent demands of Basque entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, sir. Look, I share the message of an entrepreneur who told me these days, and who exemplifies a fortunately very widespread attitude also among all kinds of companies, and it is: "The fundamental thing is that with the help of everyone, and supported by the current situation, we can face the tremendous disruptions that we have right now, in order to achieve a society of progress that generates wealth by fighting inequality. It's about uniting, adding, and not otherwise." That's what this businessman said. Collaboration, realism, generating wealth, fighting inequality, uniting, summarizing... I look at, appreciate and fully share this demand that I receive directly from the Basque entrepreneurs in the meetings that I hold. And I'm trying to apply it in its entirety to our governance model. Therefore, knowing the challenges that confront us, harmony in all ranks is indispensable. This is our purpose, and we have complete confidence in the permanent human development. By this example, we shall be able to overcome the difficulties we live in. In these targets, patterns, and purposes, we always get the world's view and the developers' contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u29	Lehendakari, I also share those reflections made by these entrepreneurs, because you speak to them in the same way that I spoke to the entrepreneurs. But there are times when you consider that thinking differently, seeing reality differently, there are times when you think it's challenging the Basque Nationalist Party, and that's where you don't pass. And that's his problem. Entrepreneurs, lehendakari, self-employed, merchants are not the enemy to beat. Sometimes it seems - let me say - that you speak from a resentment, as if you were in the point of view, subjected to abuse of fiscal punishment, and question the legitimacy in your claims for statements that you yourself have made here in this very House. And much has to be done from the public, from his government, to overcome this situation. The first thing, the immediate thing, is to release resources to help our businesses and self-employed to cope with the rise of inflation with high energy costs. They must help to modernise production, sales and marketing chains, for example. Secondly, fewer bureaucratic obstacles to entrepreneurs, and greater efficiency of public spending: facilities for entrepreneurs, and a government capable of managing resources, investments, projects, within the deadlines and with the objectives envisaged. And the third thing, learning from others, or remembering how we did it in the past; the same goes. But we must again be a pole of attraction, capable of winning market shares and attracting talent, and of putting all the instruments at our disposal at the service of that goal. Others, they lower taxes. You can and must lower taxes, more and more easily, because we have more instruments and the arks healthier than others. President, I advise you to take care of this, because assault on corporate leaders and autonomists is of no use. That doesn't help at these complex times and get it back or...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz, time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, for a constructive and positive exercise, I would like to thank you once and for all for bringing here the sentences of what you say I have said against entrepreneurs, the self-employed, why I stand in front of everyone... Bring it, please, and it will help me make an assessment of what I have been able to say in that regard because it is radically contrary to what my position is. In any case, I admit that we live in times of uncertainty and concern, as you say. Now, you will have to admit that recovery and exit from the crisis is a fact, and I remind you of some of the realities of these two weeks. Mercedes and Iberdrola are incorporated into Basquevolt: first stone of the decarbonization hub in the Port of Bilbao; Satlantis launches the first Basque satellite into space; Oncomatryx begins clinical trials of a new cancer medicine. And I quote them because the Basque Government is involved in all these projects. And we are in permanent contact with companies. We have shared forums, clusters, Berpiztu program, dual training, university plus company, Social Dialogue Bureau, Science Council, Technology, Innovation, Agenda 2030 Forum, Internationalization Council... Our policies aren't born in an office. They have the participation of companies, economic and social actors. Thus, we have approved the Strategic Industrial and Internationalization Plan 2024, the programme of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, with 600 million euros... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...and social. Thus, we have approved the Industrial Strategic Plan and Internationalization 2024, the support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, with EUR 600 million, the Bateratu programme to encourage merger and absorption between companies and to ensure that they gain size and competitiveness, the funds of root and venture capital, the Finkatuz Fund and the guarantee programmes managed by the Basque Institute of Finance and Elkargi. Look, Euskadi is a positive country, we're meeting the goals. This year we will recover the gross domestic product lost during the pandemic. We have one of the lowest poverty rates in Europe. In May, we surpassed the historical record of social security contributors, with more than 986,000 people. The pace of industrial growth continues. And this means that Euskadi is an economically competitive and socially balanced country. I'm the first to recognize that there's always a need for improvement. I have held many meetings with the business sector and I have not heard from Confebask, CEBEC, ASLE, Confecoop or other business associations the opinions you have indicated. It would be good for you to ask business organisations whether or not they share the arguments behind the justification of your question. In any case, I encourage you to join in pushing the car, because everyone else is working for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, Amaia Martína Mistha, a member of the Vox team, a member of the Parliament for the president, about the losing leadership in Spain." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, a few days ago we were aware of the data provided by a report made by people of economic standing and based on rigorous data. Data coincident with those also provided by other bodies, such as the General Council of Economists, regarding the evolution of the different autonomous communities in the last 45 years. The data, as I said, are rigorous and do not leave in very good place the Basque Autonomous Community and, by extension, those who have been its managers since 1980. Data on the evolution of the Basque Country under the management of the PNV have not helped to strengthen the leadership position that this community has maintained over many decades. In addition, the projections suggest that the loss of influence of the Basque Country in the whole of Spain will continue in the future. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, we ask you the following question: what steps does your Government intend to take to regain the leadership lost by the Basque Autonomous Community as a whole in Spain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs Martínez. Wow, the question was what assessment the Lehendakari deserves of the terms indicated in the Zedarriak report on the loss of leadership of the Basque Country as a whole in Spain. On May 20, I had the opportunity to hold a direct and personal meeting, without intermediaries and at your request, with the delegated commission of the Zedarriak Forum, and the meeting was very positive. Thus it was publicly valued by both parties. We were able to delve deeper into the full content of the report, draw it up and contrast it with the analyses of the Basque Government itself. And I have analysed in depth the report and each of its parts, and I have brought to the members of the forum my considerations on it, with my assessments. The Zedarriak Forum appreciates the effort made in Euskadi in the difficult years, since the financial crisis since 2008 to which the pandemic and the consequences of the invasion of Ukraine have been added. And look, I read your first conclusion: "Euskadi stands out comparatively for its level of prosperity, its low risk of poverty, its high social inclusion and the good living conditions enjoyed by its citizens, also for its resilience and public-private collaboration." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u37	Mr Lehendakari, I understand that the terms of the Zedarriak report did not like them at the time. We are aware that, in addition, there has been a great deal of pressure to keep this report out of the light. But, even though it is not to your liking, we have an obligation to discuss it, because citizens must know the reality of what they put in it. In the Basque Country, in the last 45 years, gross domestic product per capita has grown less than the average for Spain as a whole and less than in other major autonomous communities. And I give you data so you don't tell me I'm overreacting. The Basque Country has grown by 1.62% and the national average has increased by 1.75. But if we talk about the overall growth of our economy, the figure is even worse, since the average GDP growth in Spain has been 2.39, while in the Basque Country we have only grown 1.82%. Another alarming fact, the loss of industrial activity. In 1986, the Basque industry accounted for 45% of our total economic fabric, compared to the 21% it currently represents. But perhaps the data that best reflects the loss of influence and competitiveness of the Basque Country is the negative evolution of the weight of the Basque economy in relation to the Spanish economy as a whole during the years of nationalist management: in 1975, the Basque economy represented almost 8% of national GDP, while in 2020 it did not reach 6%. And in line with the above, the Basque business fabric has also diminished its weight compared to other times: in 1997, our companies accounted for 5.20 % of the national total, and at present they represent only 4.4 %. We could talk about other issues, such as the inability of his Government to retain and attract talent, its fiscal policies, which place us as an unattractive territory for foreign investment, or the excess of public spending, which has grown far above economic progress. Therefore, the data show that in the Basque Country we could apply that expression that "any time past was better". But perhaps the most relevant of the data are the reasons for the angry reaction that both the PNV and the Basque Government have had to know the data in the report. And the root of this discomfort is that the data provided disassemble the myth about the infallible management capacity of the PNV, around which they have built much of their power. The Nationalist Party has installed the idea that in the Basque Country self-government and management... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... Infallible PNV management capacity, around which they have built much of their power. The Nationalist Party has installed the idea that in the Basque Country self-government and the management of it have been the basis of success to be the leading territory in the whole of Spain. And this report highlights the fallacy of this nationalist mythology. We are grass of the flight of talent, we have an advantageous fiscal tool with respect to other parts of Spain, and, despite this, it has not served as an element of investment attraction. Fortunately, we have been able to see the true face of a management and a self-government whose scores definate much more than you had told us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martinez, are you under pressure to keep the report out of the light? But if I do not have the report, I have not been given the report, and if we have known it by a certain means of communication, by a certain means of communication, Mrs Martínez. Look, the conclusion you draw from the report -- that is, the loss of leadership in the Basque Autonomous Community, rather a media owner -- does not at all coincide with the opinion I have received from the people representing the forum. The negative interested view that has been intended to be transmitted and that you also use is not shared. Zedarriak aims to unite and add, continue to advance from collaboration, and zero complacency. We are in a permanent race of competitiveness and global transformation. And this is not an exclusive responsibility of the Government; when we talk about Euskadi, Mrs Martínez, we talk about the responsibility of institutions, yes, but also of companies, of workers and of society as a whole. I do not think it is a good academic or professional exercise to compare ourselves to what was the situation in 1975, Mrs Martínez. The Zedarriak report does. The Government's attitude is open, demanding and flexible, and I share a constructive critical attitude. Now, Euskadi is not a country in decline, it is not a country that loses its appeal. And if so, how do we explain that we are at the time that more people are working on our entire history, or how do we explain that we are receiving new investment projects. You were pointing at some data. I'm going to beat him with the data. Despite the crisis, Mrs Martínez, Euskadi holds leadership positions in per capita income, available family income, financial solvency, public health, education expenditure per pupil, research, development, vocational training or social protection policies. Gross domestic product grew by 5.7% in the first quarter, and unemployment fell to 9.1%. We therefore fulfilled the objectives that we had set ourselves as a Government. And I do not agree with any negative and catastrophic messages, nor with anyone who takes advantage of any report to distort it and make party politics, Mrs Martínez. That's what you're trying to do. Nor do I share any kind of conformism. I started my first term warning that we were expected two very hard years. My messages in general policy debates or at the end of the year have not hidden the self-critical exercise. Neither defeatist catastrophism nor unconscious optimism are valid answers to the challenges of the future. That is why I appeal to Basque society to unite and join, as does the Zedarriak Forum or what the Commission delegate told me in the positive meeting that I have had with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, the influence of the OPAkka in the company of EH Preductive. " Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u41	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. In 2017, there was a powerful Basque company, one of the strongest, one of the world's activities and the leadership. Moreover, in a very important sector, at that time growth was complete, and today-even today-a present growth, and the prospect of the future with even better energy. At that moment, Siemens purchases, although projected as a fuse, because Siemens maintain control. This purchase is given, and from that point the new company begins a very complicated road. We know today that Siemens will buy what's missing from the company, so he'll pull it out of the stock and start a deep remudation process. That, no doubt, will be incestified in our hundred producers. And that's why we're asking you what you're gonna do to avoid all those negative impacts in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. Casanova. You ask what fun is going to do, and I suppose you're talking about our congregation because in justification of justification the Basque Country is mentioned. But it's best to know what we've done so far and what we're doing. The fuse between Games and Siemens was in 2017, as you said, and we've been following the development of that company from the first day. We'll have to accept a reality. For five years, it's not the street you're talking about or the other way around. For five years, we have to say that the number of people in the company who worked in Eukadin has grown up. At the same time, the bill which has been paid for the local corporations for five years has increased. It's data. So, this is the reality that has been going on before. From now on it's true that this new situation may lead to a new risk. That's true, but, you know, it's still happening. What for? In order to strengthen our main goal, to maintain the Eukadin activity and work of the company, and increase it if possible. This is the column of our industry politics: To answer needs and requests by programs that are running.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u45	Yeah, we talk about EA, and that's your manual. But it's true that I'm worried about the Basque Country, and I'm worried that you're either closing your factory in Aomen Games or going out in the offices they've got in the country... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... and they are thy functions. But it is true that the Basque Country demands me, and I am concerned that the factory which Aomen Games had had was either shut up or thrown out in the offices they had in the country. But it's true, I'm asking you about the circle of our hands. What happened with the game was not only previewable, it was planned. What had happened with the Basques was also planned, and what had been foreseen and reported from this arrear. And we knew that the two-pointed companies were approaching a dangerous career and that there could be serious consequences. And there have been. We've lost these two significant companies as a country, they've been dissolved into a greater entity, we've lost our decisions, and there'll be serious consequences in the job, research, and a hundred producers. Some of us tried to denounce it and follow it, and some of you applauded it and pushed it. But we do not come here to do an exercise of "I told you so", we also come to propose measures so that no more problems of these characteristics that weaken our productive fabric, and we believe that measures can be put on the table, because this does not end here, and there will be other companies that can follow the same path of loss, of rooting. We believe that it is essential, first and foremost, to initiate an assertive and demanding dialogue with the company in order to minimize the impact on the productive fabric, employment and R & D in this country. We think it is essential to activate the Finkatuz fund once and for all, even by increasing its endowment by 100 million so that it starts once and for all to carry out entry and rooting operations in important Basque companies. We believe that it is also essential to start an equally assertive and demanding dialogue with Kutxabank to create instruments in line with European banking regulation that will allow to some extent neutralise the gigantic process of divestment of more than 3.5 billion that this institution has developed in Basque companies. We believe that we can also talk with EPSVs, with the entities of Voluntary Social Security, so that also according to their regulations and the prudence that should guide their intervention, they dedicate a part of the great resources that they manage for the financing and capitalization of the Basque productive fabric. We believe that it is urgent that the Basque Institute of Finance Act be introduced in this Parliament so that we can discuss things such as public banking or the restructuring of the Finkatuz fund system and other types of funds. And we believe that, finally, a change of mindset on the part of his Government is important. I believe that they should cease to be the last step of liberalism and inhibition and of thinking that companies should fall into a kind of permanent self-management and be aware that in this complex and changing world, the responsibilities of governments are also increasing both in ensuring people's security, in planning and directing and in organizing certain productive processes. Therefore, get out of that lethargy and take responsibility for your role as director and leader of the production process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u46	Thank you, Mr. Casanova, time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know, Mr. Casanova, that if you look at honesty these two companies have been lost so easily. I don't understand it that way. Yes, the impact that will result in the new situation will be visible and without moderation. It must be admitted that the results of the company are not good, and that it is necessary to provide a solution to this situation. For our part, we have received a specific business commitment: the workers they say are not the problem. That doesn't calm us completely, but it was a clear message. Instead of causing a whirl and fear, the process of the stability of the company is to remain very close to us, offering our intention and our industrial instruments for the activity of the corporation, as we do with all other companies. Siemens Energy has opted for a new reorganization that brings stability to the company at a time of uncertainty in the sector. And the government has maintained and will maintain a direct relationship with the company, and we have already moved our concern for the situation and the horizon for the workers. And I insist on what (?)Cristian Brock bluntly stated that workers are not the problem. We have also moved the reality of the industrial and technological ecosystem that we have in Euskadi, as well as our model of private public collaboration, also pointing out all the tools that you have mentioned, which could also include family office, for example. And, Mr. Casanova, between Mr. Iturgaiz's model and his model, I'm staying with ours. In any case, we know the framework and we know that this is a private operation. However, we have experience in industrial policy that allows us to offer measures that can contribute to the stability of the activity, always with criteria identical to those offered to the rest of the business fabric. And we will follow this operation and its decisions very closely with the aim that Siemens will find in Euskadi the ecosystem necessary to strengthen the presence, the activity, the collaboration with the suppliers, and above all, employment. We have a wide range of technological and industrial development programs and services that make it possible to improve the competitiveness of the Basque economic ecosystem, and the best guarantee for the continuity of Siemens, and of any company, is that we will be able to work together and make its roots in Euskadi attractive and profitable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpology, made by the legislature of the Ostero Galvirdo team, made for the development of Economics, patience, and the chief department of Environment, about the measures to save energy." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u49	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We have the president making jokes, so we have a good morning. Mrs. Tapia, good morning. I want to focus on the energy that is to be talked about today's emergency savings. Let me take a little walk before I reach the question. We went from Parliament recently to visit the Basque Organization of Power, where we made an historic career around public policies in the field of energy. And it was interesting because the design of these public policies was 70. She came in the decade, and there's something to learn from, isn't there? Basque public energy policies were born in the 1970s in a context that has some similarities with today's, in a context of energy crisis in which the decade was marked by two geopolitical factors: the Arab embargo in response to the Israeli Arab war, and the revolution of Iran, which provoked that while... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... marked by two geopolitical factors: the Arab embargo in response to the Israeli Arab war, and the Iranian revolution, which caused that, although in 1970 the barrel of oil cost two dollars, in 1980, a decade later, it had multiplied the price by 20 and cost 40 dollars. There were bottlenecks, there were shortages, there was damage to the productive tissue, there was inflation—now we have a familiar ring to it. But above all it was a psychological shock because for the first time oil failed worldwide. And oil was not a raw material anymore, it was raw material, it was the giant on whose backs we had organized, we had ridden the Western welfare states. At that time, the Pre-Autonomic Basque General Council was designing some of the policies that would guide the fate of the country. He took a good note and made a diagnosis and drew conclusions. The diagnosis, in two words, was dependence and 62% of the oil in the energy mix. The conclusion was obvious: we had to save, we had to diversify, we had to look for our own resources and we had to look for or we had to try to make progress on the path of new energies, which were then called renewable energies. Shortly thereafter, in the early 80s, the first Basque government created CADEM, the Center for Savings and Diversification; the Basque Energy Agency, Euskadi Hydrocarbons. And 40 years later we can make a balance. I would say that the balance is sour if we meet the objectives. Diversification, we've removed coal, but now we're gas dependent. In saving, there are sectors that have saved, but our transport has been eaten, today we consume more. The search for own resources, because there has been time and we have not given one. And in renewables because the delay is obvious and we are as we are. Two facts sum this up. Our present state is a minegetic dependence on 90%, and depend on fossil resources at 80 percent. Of those public policies or, as my colleague Nerea Kortajarena would say, of those dusts these rates of energy dependence. And why is this important in today's context? This week the International Energy Agency, his director, Fatih Birol, said: "Ojo, oh, que tumos en una tenación crítica." The situation is much worse today. The oil crisis in the '70s, which caused crisis, but today there's a crisis with oil, gas and electricity, especially in Europe. And not just that, but it's a lot deeper and there's more things going on in today's cocktails. In the '70s there were only problems, it wasn't a resource problem, but today we're talking about −, but now we're in a climate emergency, and there's also a problem or an geometrical problem or problem at the top of conventional resources, and these few months, OPPE, is saying that it's not so easy to combine with the offer. Porque estos no son grifos que se abre y sale más petróle y esta. Hay un problem de fendo, de recursos que in the country. We're in this context. In his day he produced changes, and now he must produce great changes. And the European Union and our principal characteristics are dependence and invulnerability. And the two poles of the Egyptian European politics, the two poles at once, are very uncertain. And it's the poles: Mysterious security and bearable prices. In this difficult context, during war, which renders everything difficult, Europe has determined the matter, and has said that the dependence of Russian means must be broken. It's a great addiction, we all know it. So here is a geometic motivation, but at the same time there is a climate motivation, and there is a geological motive, which fossil resources must be left behind. And for that, under theREPower Europe, the Union Plan, a multi-profit plan, has just been published in May. She has very different parts. On the one hand he directs some initiatives to ensure the sudden emergency security: diffusion, combining purchase, etc., and develop some sub-structures, and so on. On the other hand, as a post, it proposes an initiative to accelerate the transition, and on the other hand electrocution, the retrogating energy, etc., and so on. But there's also a great concern, and for the next few months there's a frenzy, or a spiritual security, isn't there? So basically what they're saying, and they've also pulled out a communication attached to the REPowerEU Plan, which is called Save Energy, that is, saving energy, because it's very important in this context to save energy. And basically Save Energy what it tells us is that there are like three ways to save major energy. One would be structural transformations, i.e. acting in buildings, in industry, in efficiency, opting for heat pumps, etc., structural transformations that take their time. The other would be price signals, i.e. if the energy is expensive, it consumes less and saves more. But this, of course, has obvious social damage and is therefore a question to be taken in a limited and palliative way. Baina badago beste kontu bat, eta nik hemen zentratu nahi dut gaurkoan, eta da la saving emergency energy, let's say, also associated with changes in behavior in the consumption of the public, people, inhabitants of the European Union. In general, low-cost or even zero-cost measures. And they can be effective because they can save up to 5% of energy; and in the case of gas, they can reach 13 billion cubic meters of gas - and in this context of risk of supply interruptions as nothing is negligible. Since March, in collaboration with the International Energy Agency, the Play My Part campaign has been taken out, doing my part, also aimed at the population, in which new main measures are proposed, among which are to lower the thermostats, take less the car, use more public transport, telework, etc., etc. That campaign is under way. And Save Energy pulls that campaign. And the Save Energy and REPower European Union is addressed to the authorities; not only to the states, mainly, baita ere toki erakundeko gobernuei eta gobernu eskualdeetakoak, regional governments. It's now zuzenean gu interpelatzen gaitu. And what does the European Union want? He says to communicate the situation, to communicate the gravity of the situation. He asks for fast plans and guides to modify people's behavior. And also, − is very attentive to this for non-committing plans... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... plan Azkarrago Egypt age jendearen gigak portaera modifierkatzeko. Eta baga ere −eta bear adi honi − eskatzen du kontingentzia planak egiteko, ze arriskua dago oraintxe betan that there are disruptive supply cuts let's say in relation to the geopolitical situation, ask Bulgaria, ask Poland, ask Finland or recently to Holland. Russia has made it clear that if you don't pay the gas in rubles because "tatari tarari eh bitch" or as they say in Russian. It was you who had a garden and an inguru approach, ba, ez dakit bear on which no adriazi. A little touching the lira as the energy world burns on the issue of saving and the question of playing my part and on the question of communication and the campaign and the safe energy plan, because I am not going to tell you anything. This same week, the director of the EVE in half an hour of radio interview, not to mention emergency savings, not to mention any guides, no plans to be made... Oscila between here there is no problem, here we are well stocked or the latest statements that are making your entire environment is little crying for the lost gas, crying for the exploration loss, or worse even. Because we're getting to laugh thanks to Josu Jon Imaz, while he's laughing at us for... According to one day he tells us that we are doing the cinnamon to the other that we are doing wrong the energy transition, etcetera or reaching the end, even throwing shovel - as we have seen the lehendakari - to put the first stone of the pompous (jap?) of decarbonization, where we are presented as the fifth essence of innovation, the umpteenth variant of carbon hydrogen via Fischer-Tropsch process, which is older than cough and which remains, by the way, just as inefficient as when the 1940s fed the Nazi army. So the question is very simple. Considering all this, Mrs. Tapia, what are you planning to encourage urgent savings? And what are your plans for contact purposes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u50	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u51	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, congressmen. And good morning, Mr. Otero. You've made a little history of the answer structure, and I've made Eukadic energy policies connected with the European principles and the rights of the Union for a long time, not only at first, but even now. And the Euscalal Organization of energy has been carrying my own transition more than 40 years in time and in time. Besides, we agree with the traditions established by Europe. So in the past four decades, if it weren't for actions done today, we'd consume more than 50 percent of Eukadin by any kind of energy we consume today. So you're not to-dayly effective and saving, they're not to-day, although you seem to have discovered anxiety and efficiency. In the past four or five years, the investments we've made to encourage efficiency and retractable energy development have been 640 million euros. It's not that bad. The Esupal Organization of energy has taken energy policies in the last four decades and has helped to develop it somehow. Industrials and reorganised energy, the necessary means have been examined by the transition to retractibles, by carrying a very important energy policy forward and answering to the mills of the time, by adapting the productions, and by altering all the inhabitants and their behaviour. Even the most energetic policy has led us to a well-being, and, as it is never known, we have secure security. And the security of the supplies is important today, and it's always been important, not only because we have gas, oil, or electricity, but because they need nets to bring them all in, and we've developed them too. They're all in charge. And to speak of it, to hire, is rich in examining. He's been rich, and he's rich to hire models between us. But what's not acceptable is cynicism and respect. We haven't given one. In order not to give one I believe that we have been right on many occasions and have made an orderly transition and have gone on to consume less than we would have achieved following the same policies as before. Egoera larria da bai, bathe ez da gaurkoa. Strategy gure. Sar Gaitezen (?)). There are three main pillars of action in the 20/30 strategy. The first is to develop renewable energies of all kinds, which is not new in Euskadi. You come to me and tell me we're late now. Man, for each one should also look a little bit at himself, and know what responsibilities he has in not having continued to do what was to be done, right? Because looking at others is usually very easy, but I think we each have our responsibilities and we also need to analyze them. Retracting and debonizing by other means Hydrogen. And the hydrogean bet is also coming from Europe, and it's important, though it seems very funny to you that it doesn't correspond with your politics. Mental efficiency, industrial, homes and mobiles. As you said, we even have something to say in mobiles. And of course the way to electrocution and debonization is not easy because we're not alone in cars? ; we have to fly, we have to take trucks, we have to sail ships. And that's where we're working. And, of course, the deposit, because if we have to go to the retrials, this − is the bet, we have a very important deposit job. That's the policy that's today, because it looks like it's been done in '70s and then nothing's been read since then. Anyway, in the context in which we live, the VOCID-19 pandemic has taught us many things, but also the invasion of Russia into Ukraine... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... Anyway, in the context in which we live, the VOCID-19 pandemic has taught us many things, but also the invasion of Russia into Ukraine has led us to energy dependencies - which existed and exist, have not been born now - and to dependence on raw materials, because, as you said, we only produce 10% of the energy we consume. We have a lot to do. And that dependence, of course, is diminished by betting on own resources, by betting on the renewable generation of zero kilometre and making the renewable ratio in Euskadi much higher than we have at the moment. And it is done with realism and with consensus, with both: realism and consensus. And we know that we are not going to be 100 % self-sufficient with renewable energy alone, but we need to get enough energy from decarbonisation and ensure that supply security. By the way, I'm making a parenthesis. We are going to make a point about the security we have at the moment thanks to the bet that was made for the installation of BBG, inaugurated in 2004. Thanks to those regasifiers today we have an advantageous position in the security of supply of that gas that we continue to consume, and that we will continue to consume as long as we make the transition. A privileged storage situation as well, because that Gaviota facility that today cannot, it is already finished, take out more gas, is also an important storage area. Therefore, we will have the necessary infrastructure to have enough gas. Another thing is at what price that gas is going to be. However, the bets are three. Like I said. What measures, what is our policy? Russia has, of course, supposed the damages caused by the invasion of the Ukraina territory, and a certain amount of special measures. You know the lowness of the electricity price, and the lowness of the price when this electricity comes from gas, the giving of special subsidys to those who are intense gas, those that come from state by decree and also those which are laid out of our money. So these are the ones at this moment, the pero exes ayudas previas a la invasion. "Evident, puesto que como existist una strategy, existas ayudas suficentes." "Y voy a dethallar algunas de ellas, sobre todo fijadas en esos trres:" Firstly, support for the generation of renewable energy for self-consumption and electrical storage. A program open until 31 December 2023: 37,2 million euros for all those who will work from the self-consumption. Support for renewable energy installations and their connection to industrial consumption, which involves making determined PPPs so that the cost and savings that can be produced in energy - and we are going to electrification and we are going to decarbonisation, and therefore also to climate emergency - can be promoted with the participation of the Basque Energy Agency so that our companies have a better cost and situation. Support for local and small consumer renewable energy generation through energy communities. Why? Because at the moment there are many people living in Euskadi who cannot implement self-consumption facilities associated with their own homes. And there are other models of support for renewable generation that will make it possible to reduce this energy dependence and associate energy consumption with these facilities. Production of biomethane for injection into the natural gas network, i.e. to reduce the dependence of natural gas through the biomethane that is to be introduced into those already existing networks from bioresidue products. I believe that on the one hand we collect bioresidue, generate biogas, introduce methane into the system and reduce our dependence on natural gas. Reduction of consumption in industry through support for investments in energy efficiency. These are programs that come from a very long time ago and that we continue to do. The energy consumption and decarbonisation of our industry, of course, have taken a giant step through these kinds of measures, but we continue with them with a program open until 30 June 2023. It allows each beneficiary to obtain up to 2 million euros to make investments. Reduction of consumption in the residential sector through support for investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy. Also so that energy bills in our homes are lower, through efficiency improvements and insulation improvements. The promotion of joint electricity purchases for low-voltage consumers, which exist in different areas and we want to enhance even more. Therefore, policies that are not of today and that we continue and continue to bet so that they are a reality. In addition to other actions that have been proposed and worked on both at the state and at the European level, which allow us - if implemented - to achieve a better margin in terms of prices and in terms of the sustainability of our energy system, both as citizens and on the industrial side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u53	Thank you. One of them, Mrs. Tapia. or, as I say, you don't understand the interpenetration, or, as I say, you are a little engaged in this matter. Ez dut hitz egiten aurrezpen politica orokorretaz. Esaten had to Europar Batasuna eta Naziarteko Agency Energy esaten ari say the premiumazko aurrezpen kanpaina bat eta plan batzuk egin behar say it, eta kontingentzia planak before the possibility of disruption of supply. That's what I'm talking about. You can tell me about public policies and the long journey, whatever you want, and what will be done in the future as well. But we're talking months ago, we're talking about emergency savings; that's what we're talking about. And a couple more points. Zuk is duzu that I accuse you of not giving one. No, not to give one in general, but not to give one in the goal that Euskadi Hydrocarbons had when it was founded on betting on own resources. Okay? And these own hydrocarbon resources in 40 years have had a result of zero, zero wells or zero successful productive projects. Then, of course, we have not given one in that. And the second. You say I'm against hydrogen, I didn't say that, be very careful. What I'm telling you is that synthetic fuels, which is not the same thing, one thing is hydrogen with its different uses, which will be necessary, and another thing is what synthetic fuels are and the bet they involve, okay? Which is what the presentation was about the other day, especially. And I put a data on the table about how inefficient the process and the future it can have, and what it means. Petronor tells us... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... presentation of the other day, especially. And I put a data on the table about how inefficient the process and the future it can have, and what it means. Petronor tells us, Josu Jon tells us (...), that they will produce with synthetic fuels 18,000 barrels a year. 18,000 barrels per year, for 50 million barrels entering Petronor per year, account for 0.0003 % of Petronor's production. So you'll tell me what solution we're talking about, or if it's no longer Petronor Repsol's last desperate attempt to keep his line, and to keep alive the idea that we're going to be able to continue in a decarbonized world with fuels... i.e. with the thermal motors in operation. That's what history is about. And you say we've discovered anxiety. No, we don't. European Unions. The European Union and the International Power Agency. A campaign: Hagamos nuesta. And the other is communication: "Saf myrgy, let me speak to you." And sudden measures are required. And here's a problem because your strength, your supposed strength, is that there's a guarantee of security. Because here is Biscaia Gas, and here the gas comes. Kontuz. Read, read (...), and read (Safe energy?)). Because the European Union is making it very clear that this is not the guarantee that a region, a specific country, will have the supply. This is from all over Europe. And it goes without saying that if, above all, the east, which is at risk of being left out of supply - especially gas - by an abrupt cut in Russian supplies, a contingency plan must be made. And countries have to make and regions, contingency plans, so that there is a solidarity flow from west to east, from energy flows, to keep essential services running. So that our energy security is guaranteed, careful. Because our energy security is hanging right now, according to the plans of the European Union, from the energy security of the whole of the European Union. That's why it's so important to make quick savings plans. They have little cost, but they mean telling the people a message that you don't like to give anything. And we're fine, there's security. It's not gonna be a problem here. When that's not clear at all. And it also means putting in place contingency plans. And the people said, "Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we must put an end to the waste now." Public transport must be encouraged, and for that - as Germany has done, it is an example - we are going to reduce public transport, and we are going to change the way people can save energy. Or we're gonna send people to telework so they don't spend on displacement, don't spend energy on displacement, etc., etc. But that requires swift action, determined action, which goes beyond the usual policies, or the policies that we can have in energy efficiency, which is not the subject of discussion, which is not the subject of discussion today. That's why I'm telling you. We think at least three things have to be done. On the one hand, an emergency plan has to be made for immediate savings. We also have to make contact if we have really problems with supplies or supplies, not Euskadin, but in Europe. And all this needs to start a communication campaign to warn people about the critical situation we're in, so that there won't be too much surprise. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u54	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u55	Thank you, Mrs. President. Continction plans and services needed. Sure. Sure. But we've been talking about it for a long time. What does the plan of competition suppose in this case, what does Europe say? We need a metamorphosing job, we need a deposit, and we need 80% of the gas we need for October. What about us? Well, there's a place to metamorphose. It's a place to build. Is that bad? No, that's the inside of the continental plan. What have we got besides that? What binds us to Europe is substructure. And we have another infrastructure that will come in the BBG and will be able to separate from here. So we are Europeans, and since we are Europeans, we must lead the whole policy of Europe. But we have a pre-paradical infrastructure, which only Holland has as many of ours as ours. So I think there's been a job and we're prepared. And not only that. If we're talking about electric energy, our electric networks are the best that they need. And if it happens at a time, a certain breach, our nets keep, in general much better than the rest, because investments have been made. So the infrastructure is ready. Messages to the citizenry. Really, it's just funny. It's just that I'm funny, Mr. Otero. You don't put on the radio in the morning, because we give each and every morning a message. Which will be more or less entertaining, more or less fun, or more or less past... based on energy efficiency issues, yes or no. And we've been doing it for years, years and years. Why? Because we have to raise awareness, that we have to consume less and less. But we've been doing it... What happens is that you've already had to be bored to hear it, and then you don't even listen to it anymore. Every single day. Beraz, ez gaitezen hasi ez dagoena kontatzen. One more thing. We're talking about the Telework, or you're talking about it. Yeah, it's a piece of telework, but we've just done it before, and then I think we'll be talking about our industry. Our industry, then, in a tornado, in a corsadora, and in a place where they make eolious shovels, with the operator, there's a complication. Let us, then, examine each thing in so far as it is possible. As for transport, politics always favors the public transport. So let's not discover the world every day, what politics are that already exist. Is there any need to focus on what's going on? Probably, yeah. And in our case, what we have to do is our (... the largest is in transport and industry. He's not in the population. The bisectors, I think we're doing our jobs and doing a lot. But the industry has great business here, and the transportation has a great deal to do. And in this sense, one cannot do things one day, and one must begin to walk. And it's gotta be a strategy. Because you say so yourself, there's no strategy. There's a strategy. And the strategy has to be made. And step by step. And when we say our industry... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... You say, there's no strategy. There's a strategy. And the strategy has to be made. And step by step. And when we say that our industry is 2050. that it must be net-zero in the year, which supposes many things to be done, in the light of energy, and in some way a gas representative, including hydrogen. Eta, tartean, aipatu duzunean konbustible syntetikoak, synthetic fuels, so that they are net-zero need green hydrogen. Hence the decarbonisation hub has a part of creating green hydrogen, so that it can then be used in the generation of fuels that are synthetic and that can, for the time being, replace those fuels that are fossil. Therefore, at this moment we cannot afford to demonize any technology, on the contrary, to work each and every one of them. And let's not forget that we have to store. Store that power generation we're going to have, and it's going to be renewable. And we're gonna need that power generation to then generate green hydrogen. And that goes by generating and that goes by storing. And hence our bet also on the installation of Basquevolt, which will of course be an important area, also a strategy for the future, which will not be built overnight. So the measurements, the daily ones, but they have a clear strategy. And I think when we say there's a strategy, and if it's to come, we'll do what we have to do every day, like Europeans, but not just us. And we're ready because we have infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, that Carmelo Barrio Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, the Economics of Economics, the Economics Department of Economy and Environmental, is the state of the negotiation of the Esperament of the Esistic Politicians." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u57	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, in relation to what we have already proposed, some initiatives in the primary sector of the CAP, so let us continue now and before the session is over to find out what the state of affairs is. Logically, it is difficult to get information on how the CAP negotiations, the strategic plan negotiations, are going through the Ministry's pages. That is why I am asking you, counselor, because you have a direct link with the Ministry, and we know that common agricultural policy is very important, on which many people depend and that, in one way or another, it affects certain autonomous communities. To us differently from others, but it also affects us in a very relevant way. We have taken a tour of questions, interpellations and other initiatives on the CAP and the primary sector. And we have raised that need for further information. It is a complicated situation that of the primary sector, and then, every day, new problems arise in addition to the problems as they were in relation to supplies, energy... Well, well, let's not say anything about the war, the pandemic... New problems arise every day, don't they?, and sectoral organisations show them. And that is why we want to know the state of play of the Strategic Plan of Spain, where you participate and support it, because it is something we need to know. The Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy, drawn up by the Ministry, agreed with the Department of Development and Sustainability that you preside over, with other Autonomous Communities... Well, that strategic plan, which has been analysed by the European Union, has been asked for evaluation, there have been answers... well, in order to know how it appreciates the current situation of the negotiation, of the Spanish position of the strategic plan, we ask you this question. We want to know, that is, it's a complicated situation, the sectoral organisations are worried, there's also the shock plan, there's also the funds... That is to say, there are a number of issues that need to help ensure that farms and livestock are not closed down, and that some of the keys and incognites relating to the CAP are cleared up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u58	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egun on, Mr. Barrio. As we mentioned earlier, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food presented the first version of the CAP Strategic Plan on 29 December to the Commission last year. And, due to the normative requirements, it is a single strategic plan for the whole State, where there are interventions relating to the first pillar, to the theme of all direct aids that are applicable to the whole State, and that are common, and second pillar interventions, dedicated more to rural development, where there is a part that is common to all the autonomous communities and there is another part where it is more regionalized and where the particularities of each of the autonomous communities are established. Once the strategic plan has been presented, work has been done - or continues - on a process of continuous dialogue - which is what they call it in Europe - with the Ministry. On 31 March, the Ministry received a letter of comments from the Commission, which made 360 observations related to the strategic plan. Subsequently, on 6 June, we were summoned by the secretary general of the Ministry, Fernando Miranda, to a meeting to all the autonomous communities, explaining the main points to which these observations referred. First of all, it is considered that, in general, the challenges and objectives and needs of this strategic plan have been well defined, the recommendations of the regulation have been properly addressed and respond to economic and social objectives in an appropriate manner as well. However, a stronger, more coherent and better structured intervention is called for in all the national strategic plan. In addition, the indicator plan linked to some milestones, to some targets that have been set, needs to be revised, and it needs to be more ambitious in terms of the environment and climate. From there, a first bilateral meeting has been held with the Ministry and each of the Autonomous Communities, where we have been transmitted some of the aspects to be improved in the part that each of the Autonomous Communities established, basically in order not to overlap, for example, eco-schemes with agri-environmental aid, but which in general does not overreact to what is happening in our Autonomous Community. In general, we can say that dialogue is being positive and that... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... with agri-environmental aid, but which in general does not overreact to what is happening in our autonomous community. In general, we can say that dialogue is being positive and that it is on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u61	Thank you, President. Thank you, Commissioner, for the information, and I would ask you to go further in the second round, because I believe that there will be something more that can be said in relation to the CAP and the future of the CAP - I repeat - in those difficulties that appear here; not only the reply to the Charter of the European Union, of the Commission, but it has been acknowledged by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food that at the present time of the food emergency some of the environmental commitments of the CAP could be put on hold or postponed. That's what they said. We have also seen, and that is why it also influences what Spain and the autonomous communities - among them, this - have been said that Germany, France and Italy are calling for extensions for the implementation of the common agricultural policy. What position has the Ministry transferred to the Autonomous Communities? Is there any of this? I mean, are they asking themselves, are extensions or postponements being put on the table in relation to environmental requirements? Because the organisations in the sector are also concerned about the demand; the demand that in many cases entails much more costs than those they have to face today. That is to say, in that sense, we would like to know how it is: if you are seeing, if you are asking, if you are raising those postponements that, I say again, have been raised from Germany, from France, from Italy on issues that affect today and that are of great concern to the organizations in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u62	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, I think I answered this question the last time you made it to me, and the answer remains the same: from the Spanish State there are no changes to that extension. In addition, we are being asked for greater ambition in setting climate targets. What we have to do in each case by each of the Autonomous Communities is to establish very well what actions are to be taken, which are also liable to receive aid from the CAP. In any case, the only thing that has been commented on at the last sectoral conference, at which the topic was discussed - and I think I also mentioned it last time - is that, without avoiding the general objectives, we can accompany the implementation of these in the light of situations of special difficulty such as the current one. With regard to the actions, to the observations that we have to make, to which we have to establish the autonomous communities, they refer to those that are in the second pillar - the specific ones of ours - in order to demonstrate precisely that environmental ambition and to explain adequately what measures are to be taken. There is one issue with which we do not particularly agree, and we have sent it to the Ministry, and it is with the theme of the National Network of the CAP, that is, with the establishment of (...) regional (...) with regard to national rural development. We understand they're trespassing. And in this sense, we agree to work in a network, but, of course, in our competences. There will be a new meeting on 7 June and we will agree on the document to be sent back to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, as regards the position of the Central Government in the Euscae, which is in the Euscae of the Essquilly Department of Ciudadans, the head of Economics, and of the Environmental Department of Esistence, in relation to the oracle made by the Central Government on the butterflies." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u65	Thank you, Madam President. And good morning, counselor. Recently, the Government of Spain has approved the Strategic Semiconductors Project as a response to a problem that we have all experienced closely, and it is the supply crisis of these components that is affecting the entire domestic industry. More than two thirds of the plan's budget - about 9.3 billion - will be devoted to attracting microchip factories to Spain. And for us to attract one of those factories would be very interesting. It is a bet, it would be a bet, because it is a strategic asset, which also conditions many value chains, many production centers, are essential elements for manufacturing a multitude of products. And we have it very clear in the example of Mercedes Benz, very close; we are seeing how she has been forced to make production stops as a result of the lack of such components in recent months. For this reason and because the issue of microchips is a particularly important issue for our future, for the development of the economic model of the future of Euskadi, I ask you: what is the Basque Government doing to attract these kinds of factories or this factory, or a factory of these, to Euskadi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gil, first we have to be aware that attracting a factory of these to any place, establishing a factory of these characteristics, means at least EUR 20 billion. So, on principle. We know that chips are strategic assets right now in all industrial value chains, in anyone. And if we talk about smart industry and 4.0 industry chips are present in any field. Therefore, it does not only affect Mercedes, which we see very clearly at the moment, but, of course, it does affect the whole area. And of course, there is a shortage in Europe in any of the countries. Moreover, in addition to having production problems - which have been a consequence of what has come after the pandemic - there is, of course, a clear geopolitical interest in all of this. And the European Commission proposed in February 2022 a comprehensive package of measures that went through three important pillars: that it was development, research, innovation that could lead to own technology in the European Union, that would then allow us to start these plants; mechanisms for attracting investment, of course, that could facilitate all this; and coordination and supervision by all States, so that, as we have talked about with gas, it avoids the suffering of these hardships from the shortage of chips and we can all work together. What does Euskadi do or what capabilities do he have right now? And we fully share the European vision of zero kilometre production. Well, strengthening everything... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... All together. What does Euskadi do or what capabilities do he have right now? And we fully share the European vision of zero kilometre production. Well, strengthening of all that is the R+D+i strategy, right now we have technology centers such as CIC, Tekniker or Ikerlan, which already have an important journey, and that helped from other centers can be a fundamental support to that research. But also, from an industrial point of view, we were talking about the battery factory, Basque Bold, we are talking about a project related to connected and cooperative land mobility, but we also have companies like Fagor Electronica, which is the only company in the whole state at this time that is obviously manufacturing semiconductors of another level, but semiconductors that allow us to have a basis to attract other kinds of industries. It's not the company, but it's a base. Or Farsens, which also manufactures RFID chips and structures, another important base, another important pillar on which to settle. Or IKOR, electronic systems, which also helps us to have comprehensive services in electronic circuits. Then, we have enough bases to be able to present a project that goes to that PERTE and that tells us: we have technology, we have an industrial base that elsewhere in the Spanish State may not exist with the same intensity, and I think we can have international relations that allow us to be attractive. We will certainly work to ensure that there is a proposal from Euskadi in that PERTE and that Euskadi can attract an investment of these characteristics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u69	Thank you, Counselor, for your explanations. Well, I'm really glad we're having a project in mind to have a factory like this, even if it costs 20 billion. You know you can do many other intermediate things not to... like (?) That, isn't it? I am very glad, because in the first part of his answer I was alert to see what we were doing, and I was (?) That's nothing. We were (?) The strategy of the European Union, but in fact, that is not what I was asking you, but what we are doing here, and well, you have told me that you are going to do a project for this purpose. I'm glad to hear from you. It is obvious that as much as we want to deceive ourselves, Euskadi is not an oasis that can be isolated from the avatars of the world economy, and this is a theme, a good example, of how the global economic situation affects the pocket of all citizens, employment. We must therefore bet on this, because it affects even our economic model, our future economic strategy. And it is true that in Mondragon there is already a company, Fagor Electronica, that works with semiconductors, but as you have said, they are semiconductors of discrete component, necessary also, but they are not those that unfortunately cause the problem of desalination worldwide. Is it true that it can be for a (?) base, well, I don't know, because I actually guess you're gonna need qualitatively different investments. Some entities that are going to be key in the PERTE (?) are the National Computer Center of Barcelona and the departments of Integrated Protonics and Quantum Computing of the polytechnic universities of Madrid and Valencia. And it has caught our attention that no research centre or Basque university is seen as a key in that process or is a direct beneficiary of it. This concerns us knowing the volume of public investment in R & D by the Basque Government, which you say is actually one of the things we can continue to do, which is to maintain that investment, which does not translate in this case, however, into obvious results of (?) relevant sectors in a research niche as small as microprocessors. I mean, again, we're thinking of condemning Euskadi to be a mouse head. And as we are concerned about the economy, especially the economic model of Euskadi for the future, and the current economic situation of Euskadi, we need the government to put the piles on this issue, bet hard, take the initiative, and join the race for investment and research in microprocessors, and not just wait to see if we scratch something from the national PEST. To this end, and in order to contribute ideas to this process, we have registered a GNP that will allow us to address this debate in more depth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gil, as I was saying, we are not an oasis, we are not an island, and Europe made a decision a long time ago, also the United States, that all manufacturing, semiconductor production was going to be in Southeast Asia, and at the moment, we are suffering a very complicated situation as a result. However, I believe that precisely some of the fortresses of Euskadi are the ones I have commented to you: knowledge. And well, you'll tell me about the center... of centers located outside of Euskadi, but of course, last week councilman Jokin Bildarratz commented together with Gipuzkoa's Diputation and the City of San Sebastián a specific center in quantum computing based on the knowledge of a center as important as the (?)DIPC. Either we have another center, which is Nanogune, where the technologies of these characteristics are really relevant, or we have a company, as it is (?) Graphenea, by the way, also as a result of this investment in technologies and entrepreneurship, which are the basis of the future of Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question about the OPA of the Siemens Games of Eremens." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u73	Good morning, Counselor. In 2016 Gamesa was one of the jewels of the Euskadi crown. Ten thousand suppliers in the world, of which 800 are or were in Euskadi, 300 million euros in purchases in the territory. That's right, it exported 100% of the wind turbines that it manufactured to the rest of the world. In fact, from 2014 to 2016 he sold neither a single mill nor a single wind turbine in Euskadi, nor in the rest of Spain, mainly as a result of reforms in terms of the energy policy that the People's Party has developed, on certain occasions with the convenience or complicity of the Basque Nationalist Party. Gamesa's international competitors sold more than 50% of what they generated, of what they manufactured in their own territory, one of the reasons why in 2017 we found Siemens's absorption of... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... in its own territory. One of the reasons why in 2017 we found Siemens's absorption of Gamesa. And he was already asked on several occasions here in full control by our parliamentary group and others about Siemens' level of commitment to Euskadi. And you stated that you could ensure that the commitment was serious and secure. Now the risk is higher taking into account what has been publicly announced regarding the purchase of what was left of Gamesa's shareholdership. And you have said the same thing again, that the commitment is firm and secure. I would like to ask you, in this case, whether you have the political will to intervene so that the total and definitive loss of the decision center regarding Gamesa or Siemens Gamesa does not happen and to ensure that there is no risk of job losses in the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u74	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u75	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. The president has answered earlier, Mr. Soto, this question. And one thing has to be clear. After you've spent the fuse between Games and Siemens in 2017, you have to accept a reality, even if you don't like it. During the five years there has been no such tragic release or news; on the contrary, in the course of five years, employment has gone up in the Eukadin. The Mungiian and Zamudun, and Astunun. There's more of us. Beast, aipatu duzu vaita ére zer nolako aktibitateak egiten diren ikerketari buruz age hornitzaileekin vaita ére lanean. And in the case of Basque suppliers, at the moment we have more than 40% of everything that is bought in the state is bought in Euskadi and the level of purchases is higher despite the situation we have experienced during the pandemic. Data. And a little bit of cynicism has obviously applied you. He says he was exporting during... 100 % of all its production, because in Spain there was a rare regulation, and also outside of Euskadi. Sure, why export out of Euskadi? Because in Euskadi one wind farm could not be established. Let's see if we all agree and get some started, so you can't say again that Gamesa doesn't sell a single turbine in Euskadi. Let's see if we can make that deal. I'd love to. So one thing is what ghosts we put on the table and the other to work on realism. What for? Our primary goal: the increase of industry, the work of workers, and this company has a future company. During these five years, I repeat, − more jobs, more research and more suppliers. These are the main ways for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u77	Thank you, Counselor. Well, then, it seems that there is no risk, according to the background, with regard to the total acquisition already of Siemens from Gamesa. That's what I basically deduce from your answer. With regard to the inability to establish any wind turbine or mill due to the lack of planning by his Government in this regard. In other words, we now want to consider installing solar megaplants without any kind of planning. In a previous reply, he said that there has indeed been a planning by his Government of the energy transition in this country. Because of the lack of purchase of wind turbines..., it is true that in addition to a state regulation, but the lack of purchase of wind turbines and installation in Euskadi will also have to do with the lack of planning of this energy transition. For his part, Mr. lehendakari said that it is necessary to generate an ecosystem - you have also said it more than once - propitious for Siemens Gamesa to decide in no case at any given time whether to leave or, if necessary, to make harmful determinations for employment or for any other consideration. Here one might wonder whether a parasitic ecosystem or, if so, virtuous... I mean, handing over leadership to these kinds of companies or funds in your case... Because this is not a single example of what we have experienced in recent years in Euskadi regarding the loss of business decision-making centres in strategic companies. Whether the ecosystem is parasitic or, where appropriate, virtuous, i.e. whether that private public initiative is virtuous because it leads the strategy in these strategic sectors. The Basque Government, in its default, which leads it, is the private company, without in any case sticking to the general interest, only to take short profit. And this is where we consider it necessary to install certain instruments of (financialization?) and to update or discuss in this parliamentary framework the Basque Institute of Finance, the modification of the Basque Institute of Finance, so that it becomes a public bank. We have expressed this...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. Soto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u79	... on more than one occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u81	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Soto. Obviously, up to now Siemens Energy had 67% shares of Siemens Gamesa, and will become 100%. Why? Because they are in a situation that, of course, is a risk situation for the total company as a result of the losses that have occurred. And there are many performances to perform. It's clear. Yesterday was said by CEO Jochen Eickholt himself in an interview he gave in a German medium. He talked about the difficulties and where to act. Of course there are actions and there are risks on the international market. But, of course, as a Government we are going to do our job. And, among other things, because all our concerns, our entire system... a technological industrial ecosystem is available, as it has always been, and Siemens Gamesa... (...?) active in all that involves development in Euskadi. There is, moreover, a MOU signed quite a long time ago, precisely after the acquisition of Gamesa by Siemens, where they were developed and worked for the development of suppliers and for the improvement of those suppliers. Where we want to deepen and we will continue to work always from that industrial policy, with strategy and with planning. And, of course, tell me that there is no planning in wind energy, in this... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...always from that industrial policy, with strategy and planning. And of course, let me be told that there is no wind energy planning, in this case wind PTS in force, because it has not been repealed. So, if you don't know him there may be a lack of knowledge on your part or a lack of reading of existing documents. A clear and, of course, strategy for the development of renewable energies of all kinds, not just wind energy, but in this case we are dealing with a company that is located in Euskadi, with employment in Euskadi and with the development of suppliers in Euskadi, which we have to continue to feed and work to make it a successful industry. And that is our performance, our model of private public collaboration through development and performance in different tools that already exist. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question of the new decree by which the Member of the First Arrese Ozera is assembled to the head of the Board of Education, to organize the net of the schools, and to plan the criteria." Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u83	gentlemen: Thank you, Chief. Good morning, chief. Well, I'm not going to tell you what the Basque Country has gotten an education agreement, and I'm not going to tell you the risks or threats we see going away from that agreement. Yes, I will tell you that we have a share of this agreement, and whether we like it or not, we have voted 21 congressmen for that agreement, and consequently that we are faithful to this agreement, and therefore we do it ourselves. We also knew that you would have to complete this arrangement and fire immediately the planation decree. And we know very well what the executive functions of the Board of Education are, and we protected the agreement. We can make that difference. But this does not, as the President said this morning, reduce us not to an opportunity of scouting a new settlement, and therefore we think we ought to set that co-existence in all the specifications of this agreement, and advance it in the midst of the different ones. In this arrangement we clearly determined that we ought to take the side of another system, and so we determined a very important thing: We determined the favor of the Basque Education service. And in here, we made a clear decantation for the public euscal school. We confessed to the public euscal school, and protected the public eupscal school, to have the system's axis and protagonism itself. On the other hand, the decree of planning which I have mentioned, in our opinion, in the United States of Eusalia, does not define the protagonism which the treaty gives to the public Basque school, and therefore I would like to ask you this day at the head of the series: Will the Board of Education offer a chance to contribute to this draft order?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Sir Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u85	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mr. Arrese. We must confirm our commitment to the agreement obtained by loyalty and transparency. We really believe in transparency and the tramitation of the regulations we're working on that we've been led to share sketches of work. On May 5th, in the exact case of the draft sent to this legislature, the train began at the end of January. January. Pretrial consultation with the command of the public. This order began the treatment that had been signed on the 21st of January. So, in this first stage, the drafted document is a document of work, which is at the beginning of the tramitation, and is in the phase of collecting internal reports which necessarily belong to it. Mr. Arrese, there is no dispute about the essential nature of the public school. It's quite clear in the word, and we don't have to go back to the previous discussions about the confessional between the two networks. The offer of education being a fundamental and indirect function, and whatever it may be to be done before, all the schools which constitute the eucalyptic education will be able to provide this service. And as you used to say, I'll quote what is said in the treaty: "First: the public school will have a fundamental function among the agents who serve euscal education. Number two: The public services of euscal education, public schools, and compacts, will be provided for."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u86	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u87	gentlemen, thank you, chief physician, for your answer. The Basque Country is united. We don't have to go back to the old discussions. and we have all the desire to build the proper frame and the proper discourse of the Basque Education. However, it seems to us that in this decree there are several articles which have been received in the treaty. And if we're in the right place, where we belong, if the Board of Education approves, at least we'll tramitate them or we'll transfer them, or we'll do these contributions. I'll read it. The Decree ought to be the leading man of the eupscal educational system, which belongs to the public school of eupscal, because it assures all the students of universal access, and encourages them to participate in the social element which is involved in them. That's the way we agreed on the deal, and the order doesn't get it that way. We should get it. Eta beasts hiru ekarpen lack zaizkio dekretuari, stubborn gure. One: it says that the public school will also promote the expansion of its perimeter – that of the Basque public school – through the creation of public centres in new urban areas. Two: the expansion of public places, especially in denser urban areas, by the planning mechanisms – of this decree – which are considered to be most effective for this purpose. And third point that we believe you have to have this decree: and ensuring that any family who wants a place in public school can access it. Hauek will say guk ditugun hiru ekarpenak. Eta, bat eginik ere gaur goizean lehendakariak egin dituen azierazpenekin, guk ere you dugu hezkuntza akordio honek laburrerako begirada beharrean... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...three contributions. And even if we agree with the expressions the President has made this morning, we believe that this education agreement requires a brief glance instead of a strategic preparation, that he needs a promotion and a share in it. For that, I repeat, we must continue to create confidence. Let's ease the way of the Basque Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u89	Mr. Arrese, with all transparency, is a constant interview from the starting-point of the work method we are sharing, to start from consent and move forward. Let us continue to exercise the atmosphere of a compact spread over the majority of this Chamber. On June 20th I will stand before the Board of Education, to continue the course of this treaty. The agreement is more than discord: we believe that eupal is to be modified based on harmony and association. A new education is a national object, and our government will give the preference to maintaining the agreement which has hitherto been achieved. There's a lot of work to do, and we'll continue to report this work with all transparency, and we'll continue to keep up for interviews and interactions, in order to respond properly to the engagement taken before this Chamber. I, too, would like to mention at 40th point on April 7, that you and I may have a clear context and that you can see which deadlines we're moving in. He says at 40: "The planning of the development of this school pact... "about planning, "... In order to extend all the activities received in this document of activities, we mark the 2024 horizon." We have plenty of time, we've put some lines of work in motion, and that the criteria and properties of my − and our government will always be loyal, fine, transparent, and always not, working with all discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u90	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Queen Martín was the same as the parliamentary lawmen of the Podemos-IU, made for the planetal Plant, Housing, and the Chief of Transportal Division, about 4 meters of Bilbo." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u91	Yeah. Hello, good morning, chief physician. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u92	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, our intention is to advance the development of metro line 4, and to carry forward the project agreed by the Bizkaia Provincial Council, which participates financially together with the Basque Government in the construction of this infrastructure. An infrastructure that has, among others, the endorsement of the Bilbao City Council, which also has its active participation in much of the route. The line, whose estimated budget amounts to almost 300 million euros, connects Abando with Zorrotza, passing through Basurto, in a first phase, to then head towards Alonsotegi, vertebrating the region of Enkarterri with that of Balmaseda to Bilbao. ETS has completed a few months ago the information process of the first stage, which runs through the districts of Abando, Irala, Rekalde and Elejabarri, and submitted the information study to the participation of the neighbors, who have been able to express their opinions and preferences on the options proposed regarding the route and the type of stations. Indeed, while the pronouncement of a participatory process of this kind is not binding, the solution voted for by the citizenry will be the one that will be carried out. And that approach has closed the study, which is now at the stage of allegations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u94	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u95	Yes, thank you, chief of the department. I think to talk about line 4 you have to do a little context, first of all. This informational study comes 30 years after the first project of what was then line 3. It comes after this Parliament also passed in 2018 a non-legislative proposal to make a constructive draft of line 4, at that time towards Moyua. And it also comes three years late this informative study. And we must also contextualize where this first part of line 4 is going to be made, to the south of Bilbao: the districts of Rekalde and Irala, 70,000 people from southern Bilbao, who need a connection with the center and also a connection with Termibus, as they have also manifested throughout the participatory process. They are neighbourhoods with accessibility problems with Bilbao, and also internal ones in the neighborhood itself. Barrios that are demanding, in addition to transport, better services in health and education, as we have also demanded in the city council and in this Parliament. And neighborhoods that have been fighting against the demolition for decades, to take down the Rekalde viaduct. And this project, therefore, has some things that seem good to us, such as the reuse of existing infrastructures; I think it is good news. But this project, which will unite in this first part Basurto with Abandonment with that new layout in Rekalde and Irala, has several deficits. One of them is that there is no provision for access to Termibus, which is Bilbao's great intermodal. It is not envisaged, as has also been requested by the neighbours. And you said that the neighbors have chosen on the basis of two options. Two options, no more. You have chosen one, or you have chosen one, the one that was more like the subway, and there we agree, but you have not been able to choose, as a request made by the Federation of Neighbors' Associations... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... which was more like the subway. And there we agree, but they have not been able to choose as a request made by the Federation of Neighbors' Associations of Bilbao as was access to Termibus. Because to go to Termibus they will now have to go to the center of Bilbao, to Abando, and make a double journey, for example, to go to Santurtzi or to Getxo. And there are 3,000 allegations that have requested such access. And also among deficits, well, a work of this size takes a lot of time, and the study says it's going to be 40 works. But we have also read in the informative study that the connection with Abandonment - which is right now this first part of that connection BasurtoRekalde-Irala-Abandonment - will have to wait for the arrival of the TAV. That is what we have interpreted from the informational study. And the TAV is scheduled for Bilbao, for the entrance to Bilbao for the year 2029, if it does not suffer other delays. So, the questions we wanted to ask you right now. When to start the work on line 4 of the Bilbao Metro? When do they think they're gonna end? How long will the neighbours of Rekalde, Irala and Bilbao together have to wait to see the works of line 4 of the Bilbao Metro completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u96	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u97	Mr Martinez, large infrastructure often leaves no one indifferent. Almost all of them have, from the very moment of their conception, one or more opposition groups or groups that present their numerals for different reasons. But that does not mean that the chosen project is not ideal, but simply does not meet the expectations of all people. In the participatory process initiated by the department a total of 1,206 persons have been manifested. However, 87 % indicated that the alternatives to line 4 submitted cover their mobility needs. And of the contributions made only six refer to the ancient route of 2012 relating to Matiko, to which you have made reference. And it is true that since then Bilbao's mobility has undergone substantial changes. Much of the areas covered by the old layout, the ones collected in the current one, are already served by other metro lines, and, in any case, they are all at the urban level consolidated and well communicated. The participatory pool has been comprehensive, and has taken into account the assessments made by the neighbours, as well as their proposals. It is true that there are issues that cannot be resolved at this time, because they are not the subject of this study, such as the connection with Termibus from Basurto; a matter that will have to be considered in the next phase. Or other types of urban planning, which require coordination with the Bilbao City Council. We are talking about a work of great complexity, which has, in addition – and you have said this – some additional conditions such as the arrival of the high speed and underground train of Abandonment and the transfer by the Government of Spain of a part of the old FEVE line through which the route runs. And this forces us to act on various fronts simultaneously. And that's what we're doing. Negotiating the assignment with the ministry and pushing the works of the TAV on the one hand and moving forward in the section of the line, which is our responsibility, on the other. Perhaps you don't think so, but there is a long way to go, and it would be irresponsible to unwind it and go back to the exit box; neither would time be saved nor would it be socially profitable, it would only generate frustration. From the Department of Transport we will continue to take steps to advance the development of the line, because we believe that it responds to the mobility needs of the neighborhoods of southern Bilbao, and mainly of the areas of Irala and Rekalde, and because it guarantees its interconnection with lines 1 and 2 of the metro, the Hospital de Basurto and the future station of Abando. We have a commitment made and we will keep it. And our intention – already announced – is to tender the drafting of the construction project of the first stage, Amezola-Abando, before the end of the year. And we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u98	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. I'm warning you that the 18th Point has been withdrawn. fourteen points in theme list: "Interface, the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörkurs-Ciudadans, a member of the United States of Equality, Justice, and Polylice Society-IIIII. about the strategic plan." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief Department, Chief Artola generouss, good morning, legislative members. Today, II of social service. We direct an interpenetration on the strategic plan, considering that the plan I has been in force from 2016 to 2019, and that we have had a long time. That we're planning a plan and we're holding a very important delay. Even if you consider the evaluation done, I., the evaluation of the strategic plan in 2021, we can say everything in this area exactly... Too late in this area... she came. And I think that we should criticize that, too, and that even reflection is indispensable. And to know what is the intention of the political and equality of society II. with the strategic plan. Let's see how he intends to get out of here as soon as possible. But we want to emphasise the delay at this moment, II. the deadline for the strategic plan... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... We want delay now, II. due to strategic plan. That the first term was over three years ago, and II. we don't know anything about the strategic plan. The Social Services Act of 2008 of 5 December defines the Basque Social Services System and regulates access to the services and services in its catalogue as a subjective right. We may say that he plans this plan in the direction and planning of the social service and a public network. Planning is therefore set up in this strategic plan and an articulation of what is the public network of social services. It should be recalled that the Basque System of Social Services is defined as a system of public and mixed responsibility, consisting of public and private-owned services and equipment. It should also be remembered, Madam Counsellor, that the Social Services Act was passed without an economic memory. This was very surprising, but it was approved without an economic memory, and this also required the implementation of all the instruments deriving from this Law, and, mainly, delayed the approval of the portfolio decree that should include a catalogue of specific services. We may as well say, the law of the Social Services did not establish within itself a financial memory, and especially that the order of the wallet had been delayed, and that in this decree the services and preparations of the Euscal Autonomy Erderan were to be determined. The map that resulted in the universalization of the Basque System of Social Services was previously approved, with an estimate of the coverage to be achieved in each service and economic delivery and economic memory. And finally, the decree of 2015 was approved, as you well know. With the evaluation of I. The strategic plan is to determine the number of places - among others, persons who are users of other services or recipients of economic benefits - their coverage, the public expenditure implemented linked to them, and also to identify the results of the plan and its evaluation, especially with special attention to the deployment of services and services, the evolution of the places of users or protectors, the evolution of coverage in the home support service, and the evolution of public expenditure. Among the conclusions, because this evaluation is very extensive and, obviously, we have already had the opportunity to see it in committee and to analyse it, but I will focus on some issues; above all on issues that show that there have been shortcomings in the implementation of the Strategic Plan, I. Strategic Social Services Plan; and above all, I will focus on issues that I believe are relevant, which are reflected in the conclusions and recommendations of the I assessment. Strategic Plan, which must be taken into account in the implementation, approval and development of this II. A strategic plan which, as I said, carries a considerable delay, bearing in mind that the I. Strategic Plan ended in 2019. And I believe that this is a great subject to be addressed, Madam Counsellor, because we have a certain context, with a greater life expectancy, with greater burdens in the area of dependency, with more needs for care - both in the family and institutional environment - with greater disabilities and with greater dementia. I will focus on the conclusions to which I referred. And in relation to the home help service, it is clear that it needs to be reviewed, re-examined; above all, the overall care at home should be re-examined, because the service clearly presents problems. I think you're very aware of this. It now lends itself on the part of the municipalities, but it is true that you have also had institutional responsibilities in the Foral de Álava and, therefore, all these issues are not alien to you at all, apart from now having the responsibility of adviser in this area. Accommodation services for older persons also include the revision of criteria, the revision of service models, the model of services, the general framework for care, and the consideration of differences between urban and rural areas. The respite service says it's developed below forecast... And one issue that I believe is also important to point out is all that has to do with the need to strengthen social and health care. We are talking here specifically about the health area, concluding that it is necessary to move forward and update the health agreements. In short, there is a need to address many key issues, such as the response capacity of the Basque System of Social Services; changing needs, sustainability, the balance between institutional and family care; moving forward in certain services, as I said, especially those related to disability, with the greatest dependence, with mental illness; greater effort in breathing services; adapting residential centres to extraordinary situations such as the pandemic we have just experienced. There are also many pending decrees. I too want to stop here, because, as you know, the regulatory activity for the development of the Social Services Act has been very slow. She hasn't been very prolific. And specifically, since you are in the Government, on this particular issue, only the Resident Centers Decree has been passed, which is, by the way, pending review by the mandate of this House and which we have no news yet. Not to mention other decrees that remain pending, such as the decree on the participation of persons obliged to pay for the financing of portfolio services and what has to do with the personalized PAP Care Plan. We must therefore say that the regulatory development provided for in the Social Services Act itself has not been desirable. With little activity, especially since you are a counselor, with significant delays. And this has also influenced slowing down and execution and putting in place... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... that you are a counselor, with significant delays. This has also influenced the slowdown and the implementation, the implementation of the forecasts of the first Strategic Plan for Social Services of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. This is the situation, counselor, and I'm not going to stop much longer. We all have the assessment of the first plan, the recommendations, to which I have referred briefly, but we would like to know what the intention of your department is, and that it can clear up the question of how the situation is in relation to the elaboration of the second Strategic Plan for Social Services, which is supposed to be key to addressing the challenges we face as a society. We have a higher life expectancy, addressing all those situations of greater dependence, disability, mental illness care, and, on the other hand, matching existing resources and benefits to the scenario that we are also looking very closely at ensuring the sustainability of the system. It is therefore important to have that second plan, and also to know what actions are planned for the future to address all these issues to which I have just referred. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u100	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In the name of fun, Mrs. Artolallun, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u101	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Mrs Garrido, for your question. I begin my speech by answering your question directly, and I thank you for your inquiry, because it allows..., allows me to inform you about the situation of the plan, because I share your reflection that it is important to have that second plan. I also appreciate your questioning because it will allow me to contextualize the work we are doing for its elaboration with other planning efforts, facing the social reality, and I assure you that we are very busy and busy. I admit that our team is working late, with a small delay, but at the same time we have focused on longer-term planning. Moreover, first of all, we had to launch innovative programmes to address the social consequences of the pandemic, and now we have had to deal with the reception of Ukrainian families and the consequences of war on the most disadvantaged groups with new initiatives. At the same time, we are also working on the preparation of the second plan, which we have very much advanced, but there are two fundamental reasons, so we have moved its approval to the second half of this year. The first is a social and demographic situation, and, as we believe, from the Euscal System of Social Services to begin with social and demographic transition, it requires more plans than one stage of future and legislation. And the second is the influence of the two crisis which we are dealing with social services and demands, especially in the sphere of dependence and neglect. As I was saying, the first is the social and demographic scenario before which we are – and which you have also mentioned to him – and which we believe requires a strategic horizon and a higher planning than that of a legislature to address the social and demographic transition, among other tools, from the Basque System of Social Services. And the second has to do with the impact of the two successive crises we are facing, the needs and demands for social services, particularly in the areas of dependency and exclusion. And as I said, with the need to articulate these extraordinary programmes twice and urgently. We have assumed that our Social Services System is a universal system of public responsibility. You mentioned it, too. A system that since 2008, with the approval of the Social Services Act, is configured in Euskadi as a pillar of the welfare state, and an important part of our protection system, along with other systems such as education, health care, or income guarantee. It is a young system, but recognized year after year as a pointer in the state. It is a system that has been able to respond adequately to a situation as serious as the pandemic and its social impact. A system that complements and complements others that are part of the Euskadi protection system. Our system has consolidated as a subjective right access to an extensive catalogue of economic services and services aimed at promoting social integration with the greatest possible autonomy of the entire population. We have developed and evaluated the first strategic plan of this system, which is still young. And from experience and evaluation, with the second plan and its strategic framework, we intend to focus on the key factors that make it possible to sustain the system. We have focused on the 2030s horizon. We have internalized that we must react to the social and demographic scenario that we face by the end of this decade, because the Basque System of Social Services is already consolidated, but it is subject to great external pressures arising from the social and demographic transition, such as the health system, or also the educational system. In order to continue to respond to the four contingencies addressed by the system: dependency, exclusion, lack of protection and disability, it is necessary to strengthen and transform the system in this direction. We believe that a strategic framework is essential because of the importance of this second plan, because of the content of its objectives and axes, and because of the relevance of the initiatives in the field of policy planning or innovation that we are pushing to respond to the social context. During this time we have been working both on the elaboration of the second plan and on the construction of a strategic framework for the 2030s. This involves, among other things, demographic projections with this horizon, and working on packages of services and services. I mean, about the combinations of approximation and services that people can use, rather than the projections of every economic service or preparation. Therefore, from the experience of the first plan, we have advanced on the road to a better and more engaged plan. And we're working on the combinations of... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and we went on our way to get more involved. And we are working on the combinations of benefits and services that people could use instead of making projections, service per service or financial benefit per benefit. We have therefore moved forward from the experience of the first plan towards a better and more committed planning system. We have debugged the methodology by integrating the long-term and focusing planning around a small number of key objectives and axes. In addition, among other aspects connected with the planning of the Basque System of Social Services, mention should be made of the following initiatives: we have launched many innovative projects of a strategic nature that feed the planning, in addition to responding to the emergency needs arising from the impact of the two successive crises; we have launched, we are going to launch in short time, programs such as Altxor 7.0, offices where retired people will have all the information regarding their new situation; Helduak Zabaltzen, which is the programme we are working on to update the centres of older people. We are also working on the European Cross-Border Pole and all this related to European funds. We have completed the design of the Basque strategy for the demographic challenge, together with other sectoral initiatives for the planning, evaluation or design of these policies; and we have already initiated some key actions at the internal level, such as the implementation of the design of the Basque Information System on Social Services. I would like to stress that one of its fundamental purposes is to feed and facilitate the planning and evaluation processes for the deployment of the Basque System of Social Services. And for all this, Mrs Garrido, we are now in a position to close the plan, once this meteorological work has been carried out, and to announce that soon we can present that second plan. In its day I committed myself before this House to account in detail for this second plan and I maintain my commitment. As soon as the plan is approved by the Interinstitutional Body for Social Services and presented to the Basque Council for Social Services, I will present it to Parliament itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the explanations, Madam Counsellor, but I regret to tell you that the reasons for the delay in the preparation of this second Strategic Plan have not been clear to me, given that the first one ended in 2019, that the evaluation came late and that after this first Strategic Plan ends in 2019 we have no news of this second Strategic Plan. You have pointed out the situation of the pandemic and the situation resulting from the war in Ukraine and the gathering of people who come there. But I also have to tell you that the validity of the first plan ended in 2019 and that these dramatic circumstances or situations you (?) complicated to which you have referred, have occurred after the expiry of the second plan, the first plan, forgiveness, the first Strategic Plan of Social Services 2016-2019. Therefore, the reference, mention, to the pandemic and the war in Ukraine, when they are situations that have come after the expiry of the first Strategic Plan of Social Services in the year 19, rather sounds like an excuse, don't they? I believe that in addition to everything that the pandemic has taught us and all the shortcomings that have been put on the table, the functioning of the social services themselves, structural problems that have emerged must have served as a accelerator precisely the elaboration of this second plan. We're gonna be late. I didn't just... I understand the rhythms of administration, I understand that this issue is complex, but also a strategic plan of these characteristics is an absolutely valuable and necessary tool to continue the deployment of the Basque System of Social Services and to continue to make progress in the objectives presented by the Basque System of Social Services and in that catalogue of services and services and above all, to be able to take corrective measures to remedy also the shortcomings and those services that are not being provided adequately, where there are already very clear recommendations and conclusions in the evaluation of the first Strategic Plan. I also think that the picture you have described that presents some very clear signs of alarm about life expectancy, about the demographic challenge itself - which are also issues that we have already dealt with here - about the increase in social and health care for dependent people, people with disabilities, people with mental illness makes it necessary to address this issue with the speed it deserves. And I, with all due respect, have to say that this Government, Mr Urkullu's Government, on this occasion - as on so many others, but I will focus on this occasion - is not acting with the diligence that this issue deserves, as I say to you, to address all the challenges we face in this particular area. We are one of the most ageing societies compared to the rest of the Autonomous Communities and the rest of the countries of the European Union. This has an undoubted impact on the social services system and the health system, and I therefore believe that these issues cannot be addressed above all by referring to external factors, can they not? In that sense, I have to tell you, Madam Counsellor, that I miss a self-criticism, because you tell us on the one hand that you will come shortly, but then you have told us that before the second semester. I would say that this is a priority for us, and we regret that it has not been so for this Government and, among other things, because if it had been a priority issue, we would have had this second strategic plan for social services drawn up and in this Parliament in order to have it... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... because if it had been a matter of priority, we would have had this second strategic plan for social services drawn up and in this Parliament in order to be able to analyse it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u104	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u105	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Garrido, the fact that we have not approved the II plan does not mean that this Government has not been doing things and that the Basque institutions have not been putting in place new programmes and new services and services. You tell me that the Plan ended in 2019 - and that is true - but I remind you that in March 2020 we were immersed in a pandemic that this Government and the rest of the world's governments, of course, had to face. And he did so with the best will, with the best knowledge and with the unquestionable commitment of all his members. You blame us for lack of diligence. I'm telling you, they're not excuses. And I recognize the delay, but it's not an excuse. We have faced a pandemic for two years, we have had to face the arrival of Ukrainians as a result of an unjust war. And, of course, this Department I think has been up to the point in setting up different programs to protect the people who needed it most. From the evaluation of the I Plan, we have drawn a number of conclusions and you have referred to some of them. The first thing we want to do is to simplify the II strategic plan, without trying to put an end to all aspects of intervention. Without wishing to cover, I'm sorry, all aspects of intervention and management that could be improved. We are focusing on (...) the deployment of the Basque Social Services System according to the community model of care. We are also trying to ensure the social and economic sustainability of social care in the short and medium term. To this end, a small number of tractor projects will be identified and promoted, mainly geared to the object, services and services, the principles and model set out in the Social Services Act, the voluntary European framework for the quality of social services and also the European Union's Social Protection Committee, among others. And we will also make adjustments to the diagnosis and strategic lines arising from the inter-institutional reflection heard by the Basque Council of Social Services, the Basque Civil Dialogue Bureau and taking into account in this reflection those recommendations and guidelines of the evaluation of the Plan. You are well aware that the Strategic Social Services Plan must have a high degree of consensus among the different institutions that provide services at the country level. What we want is for it to be a preventive and social-integration-oriented system that gives the maximum possible autonomy to the entire population. A system that offers continuous and personalized comprehensive care, mainly based on what the community is and that fits your expectations and aspirations. In addition to this objective, it is worth noting, among others, the following developments for the design and monitoring and evaluation that this II plan will contain, because I agree with you that it is an important strategic tool for development and to continue to improve a model of social policies recognized at the state level as one of the most important. Firstly, what we want is to have systematic procedures and tools to provide basic information: places, users, collectors, public current expenditure on the services and services of the system. Secondly, to carry out the final evaluation on the basis of the data collected directly from the administrations responsible for each service or service. Thirdly, take as a reference the data for 31 December 2023 for the final report of the evaluation of the Second Strategic Social Services Plan of the Autonomous Community 21-24, concluding the evaluation report at the end of the XII legislature. The 2024 data will not be used to develop the III plan. And it is also important to note that we want to establish two projection scenarios for the years 23 and 2030: the horizon of 2023 will serve as a reference to take into account in the final evaluation of the strategic plan for social services, of the II plan; and the year 2030 will be an important date as a horizon to deploy transitional policies to a new model of care and socio-health. We have called it "Gizarte zerbitzuen euskal system eraldatzen 2030", with three main objectives: to reverse the pyramid of care, to promote a new balance of institutional and family care in favour of the former, and to redesign care networks in the area of dependency, exclusion, disability, taking into account the community approach of care and strengthening the connection of primary and secondary care, particularly in the community. As you can see, Mrs Garrido, we have continued to work on the preparation of the II strategic plan for social services. Meanwhile, we have had to deal with a lot of contingency, and we will continue to work to improve this social service system I believe is a pioneer in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interadectition, of Mine, of the Kortha in Ibaña, a member of the Combats, of equality, justice, and the head physician of the Society, concerning the need of a new universal system of family commissions." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. And good morning, chief of the Artola generouss. Well, I don't think there should be any particular projections for the future to know that one of the most important challenges we've ever had is a demographic challenge? You mentioned it just now, back in Mrs Garrido's interpelation. I'd say this is almost the subject, so in capital. I would say that that should be one of the political issues par excellence, and that I believe that we talk and debate little about it, and that we need to talk and debate more. The first chance was to give us the monographics brought up by collecting the Basque Country for two weeks ago, the discussion of the demography strategy that the public policy of ten years should lead to, isn't it? It is true, in this discussion, that we did not succeed in building a shared soil, which our public policy will confine to. There were, indeed, some settlements, but as things are, it was not a matter of great extent; it was not an agreement that would encourage changes of structure, especially if we consider that the frame was a strategy of ten years ago, is it not? And it wasn't the base end of the challenge... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] If we take the frame, we're talking about a ten-year strategy, right? And it wasn't possible for me to agree with a basic system of mentalization on the round of the challenge, for instance? We proposed. President Urkullu told us about a demographic winter, but he didn't tell us what it was for him to be a demographic summer. We did not succeed in agreeing, for instance, with fresh steps in pretty societies, in order that the burden should not be left behind for the women during the next few generations. The difficulties and delay of producing the young generations and making their lives a project (the first anxiety for the first time) (... but afterwards it was refused to be agreed, for instance, against the prevarietion which is at the bottom of it. Se votó en contra de dejar de financian con dero público la precarariad laboral o el establecimiiento de un salerio minimo. And in another matter, which is essential to the young, it was not agreed that the price of the house should be limited; You've talked about the old age of society, now about Mrs Garrido, and the new model you were talking about looking at 2030, haven't you? But, curiously enough, to support public and worthy care, he voted against our proposals to develop the public system of eucalyptic services, which also happened. We must remember that this was the political construction exercise of a ten years' strategy, the exercise of building the challenge we have in our hands with an intelligent, planned, and direct way of answering the political script. But it was not in this exercise that the public policies were agreed to the reconstruction of the spectal and individual and collective courses which have been added to these endless crisis. And it partly condemns itself to weakness, partly to different generations are condemned. The President saw the greatest danger of losing his balance, and he spoke of it in his word. Well, we couldn't get a new balance to agree to significant public policies. And, as it is a matter of little importance, we think we must continue to promote political discussion. We believe that even a challenge of this size demands a keen glance over the present, and a light vision of the future, and we do not see it in the future proposals. Apart from the auto-comitant and paralicative exams and − and this morning, we've had that in what you've been through this morning, Mrs. Artolalli−, well, the bottle has holes. I don't think you know how to prepare the future, and now you're not making up for the future exercise. And I think there's an example of 200 euros per child during three years, isn't there? You're making the announcement of President Urkullu's stars look a little shiny. At last he answers to a long-lost engagement, which comes from the family treaty, a question of universal assistance to families, and is small and short; There's a short cut. Why three years of support? The President explained that it was the suggestion of Unicef's recommendation, but Unicef himself, with other motives, had three colleagues, Sare the Childen, Cáritas... They said that these helps should last until 18 years. You don't understand, especially when you design a ten-year strategy, to be short-term, right? This help might have been a step forward as the first step we'd told the President −, but not as the destination. In this monographic discussion, though progressive in the course of ten years, the aid of being extended until at least 18 years had ceased to exist. The Basque Country proposed that we agree, and you said no. You know, I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. And it's short, and, to be honest, it's a little short of scientific. It's very important to look after the interval of 0-3 years, of course we protect that. But isn't it important to look after 3-18? There is, for instance, no greater accumulation of poverty in families with children between 0-3 years old and above 3.18. Then you don't understand why it's restricted to three years. "Pero se entide todavos que en una strategy a diños se descarte, se rechace, rechar, rediseñar de comperar comperare el system de ayuda por hijas e hijas." As the President described, he wants to encourage a permanent and constant system of assistance, but for a decade, the strategy does not plan a new design of a universal system of family preparations, although in the treaty for family and childhood, and in the plan of the fourth Family, he has been compromised and justified. These are expressly your engagements, Chief Artola generouss, and I dare say they ought to give some explanation, against which he voted in the monographiclo, and in another dispute which had preceded the matter, and which I think it would be your commission. The President explained in the plenoe that the subsidy will be compatible with the present tax-collectors, and also the revenues to guarantee the rents, which will strengthen the support and coverage of several assistance, which will form the most suitable system of income and family construction conditions. That's what the president said. But you know that's not true. You know, among other things, that the most vulnerable families are excluded from this system, with the lowest incomes. You are well aware that the current family support system has a very important socio-economic bias. Zuk ondo dakizu systemen adabakiak aspaldi daudela identifikatuak; bear was Argian, sheath. The dysfunctions of the current system are known and recognized; they are perfectly described in the diagnosis of the IV Family Plan, for which you are responsible. Moreover, the plan itself already proposed the design of a new system of aid of a universal nature. The Lehendakari said in the plenary that the stake is to promote a sustained and sustainable aid system. But, well... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... aid of a universal nature. The Lehendakari said in the plenary that the stake is to promote a sustained and sustainable aid system. But, well, the present one already knows that it is not; but you do not propose to change it. Betiko botilak zuloak ditu eta horretan maintainen da. It is not possible to raise a permanent and bearable system without attempting to rectify one of the most important parts of the system, one of the most important parts of the taxing, and not to correct the patches that are now in the system. At least the holes must be covered, or we should make an effort. And we know that this requires an agreement with the aldudias which have jurisdiction on this subject, but it is supposed that you have agreed with them in all this matter of demography, that they have contributed to it; that the process of participation has been effected with them. You see, 350 million is the amount of difference between the tax prosecutors or the tax attorneys. In a system that creates 350 million differences. And this isn't an opinion, it's a constation, it's a family plan, it's also a report you've got in the background. This report, well, maintains that there is now a combination of those who are called by the family of the non-commitant de cargas, that hejos manifistente regresvo, greato de una visión ignorantia que corresponde apoyo a la familyes cargo, quevida quien nos obtiens licentes y, no portito, no poti del impo de la Fedo de las ques sodres soz. That's all in your report. So, to correct all this, Chief Artola generous, do you intend to do anything on that strategy for ten years?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, señora Kottaja. As a large part of European society, Euskadi faces the challenge of developing social and demographic policies that address the progressive ageing of society and the need to foster birth. We all agree, you have also said this in your speech. In this regard, care for the elderly - and especially in a state of dependency - and support policies for families and children are two fundamental pillars of social policies, and that is what this Government is already doing. This is the basis and this is the origin that led to the birth of a key pact for the future of this country: Familien eta Haurren Aldeko Euskal Ituna, Familiaren Euskal Kontseiluak 2018an aho batez onetsia. Konpromiso institutionale éta sozial izan zen helburu komun batekin urtetan eta urrengo urteetan ezartzen ari direen plan sektorialak eta zeharkakoak bultzatzea. The pact contained ten commitments, the first of which being to guarantee a minimum number of economic resources to all families with children. Another key commitment was, and is, to prevent child poverty. Compared to the model of direct economic aid to families, our model is an effective, albeit atypical, model in Europe, because of its dual nature, as it combines direct aid with tax deductions. Faced with this model, we understand that Euskadi should move towards more universal aid, and Euskadi has been an example of family support policies in the state, and remains an example. But it is also true, and I have stated on numerous occasions, that a review was necessary. Because the effects were not being translated with the Government's efforts to help families. Such more universal aid must be extended so that financial benefits can reach all families with children. But we share his commitment that they will arrive in a more effective way with regard to child poverty. So we signed the pact, we committed ourselves to working on this line that we thought was more ambitious. Advancing by analysing and adapting (if necessary) tax policies and public spending policies. Both could contribute in a harmonious manner to the achievement of the objectives of the pact. Madame of the Kortja, in order to protect the families with children, we defend the universality as an instrument of social confession, as an compensation for the expense of raising minors. Our purpose is to strengthen the economic protection of the families in the most vulnerable condition, because we want to place financial preparations and tax measures better in the area. And we bet and bet then, and now we also do, Mrs Kortajarena, for maintaining the universality of the Basque model of protection for families with children as a tool of social recognition, and also as a compensation for the expenditure involved in raising children. Because our intention and objective is to strengthen economic protection in families in a situation of greater vulnerability, and because we want to move towards greater integration in the area of economic benefits and tax measures. As you already know, Mrs Kortajarena, on 24 October 2019 the inter-institutional working group was set up within the framework of the Tax Coordination Body. An action contained in the IV Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support, specifically its action number 35. This group is fully involved, although it has not yet forwarded its final conclusions to the Coordinating Body itself. This means that the working group is completing its proposal, and the result of this work is the announcement made on 18 May by the lehendakari during the course of the full monograph. At that time, a new monthly aid of 200 euros was announced for families under the age of 0 to 3 years, with a strong economic effort that this Government will have to make, and that we must see and analyse the effects of this measure in order to continue to implement it progressively if necessary. An aid that will be implemented in the year 2023. And with these increases we are approaching measures in force in the European countries that most promote family policies. I would also like to remind you, Mrs Kortajarena, that the aid announced by the Lehendakari is not the only initiative taken to support families with dependent minors. There are other measures aimed at the most vulnerable families, which are complementary, for example, within the framework of the Basque system of guarantees and in other areas of public policy such as education... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... measures aimed at the most vulnerable families, which are complementary, for example, within the framework of the Basque system of guarantees and in other areas of public policies such as education, in which progress will be made in the free supply of food, health, employment, housing and culture. With the agreements reached in the Family Monograph last March, with the proposal to amend the Income Guarantee Act, in addition to the development of the Child Guarantee Strategy, among many other initiatives, significant progress is being made in the progressive and protection of families with children. Another significant number of actions have also been implemented at this time, and many of these initiatives were already included in the Fourth Family Support Plan. But others were not foreseen in this document; but it has been necessary to put in place the circumstances in which we have been and have been involved in two crises in recent years: aid for reconciliation in situations of special vulnerability generated by the pandemic; socio-educational support for minors and families in situations of social disadvantage; extension of aid to families for the recruitment of persons for the care of children aged three to 14. Three years have passed since the adoption of the Basque Pact for Families and Children. The past exercise was beginning the process for the preparation of an evaluation of that pact. This report is being prepared by two working groups, one of a political nature and one of a technical nature. And as I have told you before, the conclusions have not yet been forwarded. Our impression is that we have made a great deal of progress, but that we are facing such a challenge, which we still have a great deal of work to do. And we would like to continue to make progress from as much consensus as possible. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u111	Thank you. Well, we'll have precise commitments received in the family treaty, but it's just that it doesn't go any further. And this pact is 2018, and we're in 2022. And we shall be in the evaluation, but we have repeated the treaty in two different ends, which had two ends: the reduction of child poverty has gone up −; and our birth rate is in the mining −. Therefore, from this I believe that this also requires reflection. Eta was telling us that... that Euskadi has been an example in family policies in the State. Is that the reference? I thought that one of the things the pact raised was precisely convergence with Europe. With this, we will have to look at Europe, and we will have to see what we have with regard to what they have in Europe. Y no satemos si el informe esta o no está. We, who brought that report immediately, conducted an initiative to this legislature. You'll remember. We asked for that report to be done by that organ. And the crews that support the government voted against it. Even when we talked about it, it was the reason that this report was used to determine a certain amount of date. The Government was waiting for this report, which marked the coming of the monographic. And now you've told us the report hasn't arrived. Baino komunikabide batan ikusi ditugu zenbait zati. Eta konkretuki ikusi dugu exaten from her: "What a good thing, that the current system consolidates a treatment of family burdens by clearly regressive sons and daughters. Apart from an egalitarian vision that corresponds to the support of families with dependent descendants, that forgets those who do not have enough income -kanpoan utilten dituela zaurgarrienak - and therefore do not generate enough quota in the IRPF. And that leaves aside mothers who are not contributors, while at the same time allowing them to obtain tax benefits and support in the birth of descendants, close to and even more than 20,000 euros, but not for the most vulnerable groups." Eta hori ez du Euskal Herria Bilduk exacten. It says so in a report signed by the head of department of the Department of Finance if I'm not mistaken. To this end, I believe that, in that sense, there is already enough data to at least do the things to which you had committed yourself. Eta begira, laugarren familia plan esaten zen osorik diseinatuk zirela berriro euskal familiak gaur egun jasotzen dituzten zuzeneko dirulaguntzak; diru sarrerak bermatzek preszioak eta kenkari fiskalak, denak. This is recognized in the Fourth Family Plan; the importance of economic benefits in reducing child poverty; and, in general, in the compensation of child-rearing expenses. And besides, it's something that the plan takes as a reference point. But you are putting forward a ten-year strategy, in which we are not guaranteed that this review, that this new system, will be there. And in addition, you – well, the groups that support the Government – have twice voted against this revision. Once after that initiative, I say that we were asking for the delaying report, that of performance 35, to be brought immediately. And another one in the full monographic. It's a nik you're going to have a double gehiago itxoin, a double gehiago itxoin. And here there is no pandemic, no Ukraine war, no excuse for you to cling to. These are commitments that you made in the framework of a pact that you sold with a lot of... with a lot of candy and a lot of dish, and you have to fulfill those commitments. Because especially given that we have a system in which very large amounts of money are being invested: 350 million are shared in tax deductions. But how much money is there, Mrs. Artolazabal? Can you tell us? Of all the help that is given to families with dependent children who are not... i.e., which are budgeted and not used? How much money is left behind that could be spent on a system of these characteristics, which would benefit many, many people? We believe it is urgent that two things be done. One. Family support cannot be limited to three years, but must be extended to 18 years. And of course, in a ten-year strategy, you can't tell us any stories. That is, if there is convergence with Europe, it has to go in this direction. And besides, there has to be a system-wide review. You have to bring here that new system you committed to. Batzuetan politicakan asmatu Egyptian yes, eta beastetan esz. Baino gauza jakinda ez egitea...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u112	Thank you, Kortja's. Miss Artola generous, your word is yours... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Only knowing how to stop...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u113	Thank you, Kortja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u114	They're no excuses, Mrs. Kortajarena. They're obvious and they're realities. And this government has promoted various initiatives and aid, of which its evaluation is made; it has found that they are not effective and that, therefore, another set of measures, such as that of the EUR 200 monthly up to three years, have been proposed. As initiatives that are the most advanced in the European countries, they make the most efforts in family policy. We look at those examples. That is why we have implemented those measures. That they may be insufficient measures from their point of view. But that, of course, for ours, with the economic effort that this Government has to make in order to be able to implement them, is something we hope that it can help Basque families to have the sons and daughters they want. The demographic future of this country, like that of the rest of Europe, requires tools of social recognition and compensation for spending on the upbringing of our children. We believe in the need to specifically strengthen protection for families in situations of greater vulnerability. And then I'll talk about that in particular. We believe that progress should be made towards greater integration of economic benefits and tax measures. And in that line we continue to work with new measures, such as those announced by the lehendakari in the past full monographic. The Basque Pact for Families and Children adopted in 2018 is a road map to articulate the strategy of this country's child and family policies. And we are also going to implement the consensual resolutions adopted in this House last March. You will acknowledge with me that we must respond to a challenge at European level, that this is not just something that is happening in Euskadi, and that there are no infallible references, and that we have our structure, and that we have our history, and that we have some deductions - which you have valued at EUR 350 million, which is a very important amount - that the Basque families receive, and that they also have direct support that this Government is putting in place with an effort, as I say, very important. Faced with complex situations, different innovative measures, which is what we are doing, test-error, with evaluations. And we'll see if we're right about the decisions we put in place. I would like to remind you that we are working with that tax coordination body to know exactly what assistance Basque families have and what we have to do in order to be able to help them in a more appropriate way. This group is analysing the possibilities for integrated management of child and child benefits and tax deductions per descendant. For its development it has been involved in various areas of government: education, equality, housing, income guarantee, culture, social services, health policies preferably. And not only the government departments, but partnerships have also been sought with close collaboration with Eudel and the Foral Diputations of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, as it cannot be otherwise. You can think or ask what you want, Mrs. Kortajarena, because you are perfectly legitimized and besides it is..., you would miss more, you would miss more. But it cannot say that this Government is not doing its job and that it is taking stock of the situation of the most needy families in Euskadi. And you can't say it because you'd be missing the truth. And let me also remind you, Mrs Kortajarena, that the Basque system of income guarantee and inclusion has proved to be a system of protection with a positive impact on society as a whole and on the elimination of inequalities. And you not only have to look at the part of the government if you do or stop doing it, but also the opposition leaders, the gentlemen and the people who are in the opposition groups will have to do and will have to be responsible for their decisions. And I'm telling you this because this House is dealing with the bill on the Basque system of income guarantee and inclusion. It is a project that is recently approved by the Governing Council that aims to reach the new family realities. It is a project that seeks to support more intensively those households with children in charge. And so it is proposed that a family with two dependent children increase their income by more than 250 euros per month in income guarantee income, or a family with three members adds more than 350 euros. We missed a time and a great opportunity with the proposed law of the Basque system of income guarantee that was already in this House on the table last parliamentary term and that parliamentary balances then did not allow its approval. We've lost a few years. This proposal collected, just like the one it collected... which is being dealt with here today, a remarkable improvement for families with children in their care, people who are in a complex and very vulnerable situation. And they're the people who have to be more and better protected. There's been collateral damage for this lost time. And let us hope that we will have the opportunity to improve their situation by adopting the law that we have in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, given by Erasitz de Egililaz, the parliamentary laws of the Ramos EH of the Union, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society of the Police, concerning the improvement of the conditions of the young." Ms. Saez de Egillaz, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u116	Yeah. Thank you, Chief. Good morning, chief of the Artola generouss. It's been raining from the crisis in 2008. And from the very beginning of a virus that forced everything to stop, it's been two years now. They told us that he would stop and that everything would come back to his senses. But it was all a lie. Under the livers' conditions, wrong is structural. And we're seeing that unless we take the preventive measures of structure, nothing will change. The words and actions between you and me are, in fact, far from that integrating reply. Therefore the question is clear to him who is chief of youth: Will you take the initiative to improve the conditions of the young man's life by form?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u118	Thank you again, ma'am. And good morning, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. You are well aware that this Government is already carrying out initiatives, programmes and services that constitute a comprehensive youth policy. You and I have discussed on numerous occasions what has to do with the scope of emancipation. We agree on the concern. We also agree on the solutions, because we have a budgetary agreement with your group to improve some of the items and programmes that we have already been working on. We're not just doing it from the department area, but we're also... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...with your group to improve some of the games and programs we were already working on. Not only do we do it from the department area, but we are also implying, and that is a cross-cutting policy, to other departments and other institutions. And we are doing so with the aim of improving the living conditions of the young people of Euskadi. V. We use instruments such as young Plana, which bind the traditions of primogeniture, or the euscal network for the young, and all the enterprises planned in the law of the youth approved in March, to encourage the donation of youth. We will agree, Mrs Egilaz, that we must try to facilitate the tools so that young people can build their life project autonomously outside their home. We encourage programmes for their access to information, to educational leisure, to intercultural learning, to awareness-raising in the field of cooperation, and above all, we incorporate support services for their life and emancipation paths. Finally, I'm trying to tell you that the integrated policy of young people listens to young people. To this end we encourage them to participate in the forum, which speaks of their interests, and is designed for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u120	Yeah. Thank you, chief of Artola generouss. The data seems to us to be to look at and to see what lies behind them, because what is not looked at is not seen, and among the young people it is a general sensation that those who decide upon our lives do not want to see us. 2022ko otsaila, The Basque Journal: "Only 35% of young people were emancipated in Euskadi in 2020". 2021eko azaroa, El Correo : "The highest temporality in Europe cuts the wings to young Basques". 2021eko urria, El Diario Vasco : "The cost of rentals reaches its record in Euskadi". And, according to the young Euskal Watchery, the report goes ahead, more than half of the young ones feel inability, which causes anxiety, and the sadness in life has become more general. What do you expect with these centurions, the young men to stay at home or remain silent? Or perhaps you'd prefer Ajurya to sit outside and applaud yourgestio, but you wouldn't. That's not the way it is, and we're going out into the street. In different ways, as much as every one can, and as much as he can: some of them by their daily millions and initiatives, or by their marches. And so it was that on the 7th of May, 2021, the young men took the streets of Donostia, Iruña, Bilbo, and Gastine, against the impossibility of giving, against the abuse prices of rent, came out against the prevaricator, because they are in an emergency, and need not answer. Instead, AMUGHTER sent the edge, calmly, against the young men who were proclaiming their rights. And this has caused some severe consequences, especially because 60 young people were wounded, because 8 people were arrested and 7 people were just waiting for the trial right now. But then the DA has reviewed the young Renaissance organization after having tried a crime of hate. But even the prosecution says there is no crime of hate, that divergences are filed, and yet the edge is still open to this investigation against Ernai. What's the point? What's the point? Who will explain to us the crime of hate? Who beat who? How will the border be victim to young people who are marching in a peaceful manner? You can see that, can't you? that this one has no logic, and that you have been playing a long time ago, and that this is serious? And besides wasting time throwing away crimes of hate, what have you done? Now, instead of shutting the doors to the prefect, the young men in the law instead of armoring them, you refused to do so. When we propose to limit rents, you ask us to wait. When we ask you to increase the public rent market, you tell us to wait. And when we asked you how you're going to lower your numbers, you told us to wait, there's a strategy. This is what you're proposing: he has no effective proposal. And besides, when citizens demand and bring them to the legislature, you say no. Always say no, no and no. So, chief physician of the Artola generouss, how can you improve the lives of the young people?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u122	The question you were asking me had to do with how the living conditions of young people have significantly deteriorated, and what the Government is going to do to improve the living conditions of young people. It had nothing to do with, or at least, what I have understood in this second part, with the burdens that have been suffered by part of Basque youth in I don't know where I don't know who. The aim of this Government is to work towards the coexistence of this country, which we have been doing, and for that we have different tools to be able to fight against everything that violates the human rights that people in this country can suffer. And in that no one is going to give us any kind of lesson. I would also like to say that we are perfectly committed to the diversity of this country, and that we are therefore implementing different policies to work, and that young people... are a fundamental part of policies, and that all the policies that this Government is putting in place to promote their emancipation, and to encourage them to develop their rights in full freedom. I sincerely believe that the objective is to promote equal opportunities and life projects for young people. And we are doing this from the point of view of access to employment and housing, improving housing programmes such as Gaztelagun, encouraging the granting of loans, or also working with local entities to develop youth emancipation plans. I believe that, moreover, I said this in my first round, that we are doing this together with them and they, and for that we are also working on a free time educational coordination table, and the Basque Youth Observatory is going to be the one that is going to be giving us this global and permanent view of the situation and the evolution of the youth world. We want to know your expectations, assess the impact and know... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... to give this global and permanent view of the situation and evolution of the youth world. We want to know your expectations, assess the impact and whether we are right, to improve and give opportunities to all Basque youth; which is the present and future of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo García Together by the parliamentary law of the Podemos-Ituerda Unda, the chief physician of the political department of Cultura and Language, in relation to the treatment given to the legislative nation for an unconditional income." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u124	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, señor Zupiria. Two Fridays ago, I asked him in plenary, in a monitoring session, about a very specific issue. On what criteria were they using or deciding which issues were newsworthy or not newsworthy in the EITB. His answer was to take him to the Governing Council. And my answer right now is no. I, as a political representative of Basque citizenship, have a right, and it is the right of citizenship that the Government responds to Parliament. Because a government is subject to the control of Parliament, and this function of control is the premise and basic condition of the division of powers. And, therefore, of any democracy. Today, now, as at the time, I ask you again what assessment the Basque Government deserves of the treatment that ETB has given to the popular legislative initiative on unconditional basic income.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u125	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u126	Mr. President, Congressman, good morning, Mr. Angulo. I am as a member of the government in this parliament, and I have no opinion as the chief chief of the Cultural and Language political department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u127	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u128	Well, then, like now, we'll have the silence back for an answer. It is not the silence to me or Parliament, it is also the silence to the 20,000 people who signed this ILP. It is the silence to the voters of Elkarrekin Podemos, in this case. And I also think I'm going to appropriate some of Bildu's voters who also supported that initiative. It's all that, it's all that silence. It's also, I don't know, everyone's public TV abuse. We care a lot about television, communication and ETB, since it is autonomous television and the only one that can show reality to the Basque people in a much closer way, and it is a public service. And, as such, we believe that it should reflect the social plurality that we live in this country. The criticism of the informational treatment that I make, this complaint, we believe is necessary to visualize a problem that exists in ETB, and it is the treatment that from ETB, from the informational ETB are quite unbalanced. You remain silent, but well, I will continue to make my criticism and my complaint, not my complaint. Two weeks ago I set him the example of two laws and how you were collected. Today, this morning, I have been reviewing the times devoted to political parties that are referred to the House on a monthly basis, and I have seen that the times devoted to opposition parties in ETB are 50 minutes, compared to the 310 minutes devoted to the Government and the parties that support the Government. That's what we call imbalance. And as I said before, we do not come here to complain, but to try to change things, to solve problems. And, first of all, we believe that a diagnosis must be made, and also... and unfortunately this government is not making that diagnosis. Unfortunately, all we have is silence. You, with your silence, have made our criticism of the informational treatment of the ILP and the political tendency stand in the background, and the government becomes... Let us say the important news is that the Government refuses to respond to Parliament and denies the legitimate right, in this case to my person, to the function of control of the Government. I said that in my speech two weeks ago. I find it regrettable, because the only thing it does is to take Parliament's citizens away from both impulse and control functions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u129	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u130	President andrea. Mr. Angulo, the government has not refused to come and answer this parliament, I am here to answer. And the government has not denied you the right to control the government. It's your right, and it's legally established. That's one thing, and it's another thing to ask the government about the editorial line of a public media. And I won't do that. I have said more than once that in this room I respect those who are informed of EIB and those who make decisions, and you don't. If not, you wouldn't ask me this question over and over again. You have the right to ask me, and I will answer you; but I will not give you an opinion on the question of the Noticiable EIBn. And I'm not going to give an opinion how EIB ought to give the news. And I wouldn't want you to do it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-03.u131	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon.
