ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I inform you that the ninth point on the subject has been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, concerning the consequences of the Revolutionary Revolutionary Committee of the Sub-Separations of Michael, the head of Economics, the Economics of Economics, the Economys of Economics, the Economics of Russia." Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, lords and ladies of the department, Mr. President, good morning. Madame Tapia, whom Putin has plunged us in a half-hour, has upset the European peace which he had built for over 80 years, and has invaded the Ukraine. To-day we would fain confirm two yesterday's messages: On the one hand, that Ukraine is not responsible for war, the only responsible is Putin, the only responsible is Russia, and the second is that the Ukraine has the right to determine its political existence and its political future in a free manner. That is why we are not only staying in a no to the generic war that blurs and divides responsibilities between the two sides, between Ukraine and Russia, but also adding a no to the invasion and a no to Putin's satrap. As I have mentioned, the war has caused suffering, more than 3 million refugees, displaced persons, thousands of deaths, including more than 100 children. And this is undoubtedly the worst consequence of the war: humanitarian drama. But war also has a second derivative, which also ends up impacting on citizenship, which is the economic derivative. And in this sense we were already struggling in the business and economic sphere after two years of covid, in which the balance of supply and demand has been unbalanced, bottlenecks have been created in transport, energy has been increasing in recent months and years. And, therefore, being the previous situation of uncertainty, this war is worsening, if any, the situation. At this juncture of uncertainty, we see the Government, and we see you too, Mrs Tapia, worried, but above all busy. In the last few days we have seen you meet with the productive tissue sector of Euskadi, with the primary, agricultural and agricultural sectors, and also with the logistics sector. We imagine that by sharing diagnosis, taking temperature to our companies, and we have also seen it making proposals in our area of competence, but also outside our area of competence, of the state and of Europe, because we know that war is a global problem. And that's where our question goes: at the current juncture of difficulty and uncertainty, what is the condition that you may have today and that the Ukraine war on Basque companies may have tomorrow? Thank you, beforehand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u2	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. I'd like to begin today by showing you the complete agreement of all you've been talking about. It will be difficult for me to share with you a perfectly clear and accurate answer to the future, but I think we are able to describe what has been caused by the present in Ukraine in some way. As you have mentioned, this invasion of Esscal society, institutions, economics in general, and a hundred corporations, we must say that we have produced the first sensation, sorrow, sorrow, sorrow, anger, and anxiety. And knowing well that what is going on may be incomprehensible and unreparable, and what our feelings lead us, must also be said to have the effects of both of us in our economy and society. He said that all these feelings of sadness, of uneasiness, of anger, of concern were the first that appeared also in our first meeting with clusters, with sectoral agents, in which we have worked from the first moment. Business associations that must also be said from the very beginning were concerned and acting directly in the vicinity, for example in countries such as Poland, such as the Czech Republic, where we have productive deployments, and their main concern was the working people in Ukraine and their families. Hau da, empresak jarduera ekonomikoa eta en plegua outzen dute, eragile garrantzitsuak dira, batha bagita ere personsonak daude bertan lanean, eta hor dago bagita ere berain jarduera eta beraien okupazioa. As you know, in Russia, 32 companies... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... they are at work, and there also is their activity and occupation. As you know, in Russia we have 32 different companies, installations 36, and there are 13 producers. Much less in the Ukraine, there's only commercial facility there. But still it's a terrible influence there, but it's coming obliquely here, as we see it. Europar Batasunetik ha szarri diren zigor-neurriak ekarri due beita ere gure ekonomori eragina, baina ezinbestekoak dira éta onetsi étabaestu egin behar ditugula argi dago. It is clear that the cost of raw materials and their associated life in the prices being paid and inflation, the uncontrolled price of electricity, fuels, the breakdown of supply chains and the financial situation in general are causing some of our companies to stop temporarily, as we are already seeing. Logistics is manifesting itself as something very relevant to try to fill that situation and help supply chains break, but they cannot do so alone. Mundu milako arazo bat da, ikusten dugu, éta Covidari were present, covidă ez da desagertu, éta, beraz, bi gauzak aldi berean gertazzen ari zaizkigu. Adibidez, atzo, aipatzen zen jardunaldi batan, hemen Arabako merkataritza Ganbara, Txinan gertazzen ari dena: portu bat itxi egin da Covidaren eginez éta horrek ikaragarrizko zarata egiten du mondu malan. So that I think there are some measures, and thus we have examined them closely with the sector, to take them there, but also in the degree of Europe and in the state. There will be a further explanation of how the situation is and what measures will be arranged in this discussion, but I would like to say one thing, and it's clear that if our business tissue is good, if it's tech, we'll be able to get out of here, and I'm sure that even our companies will be able to do it with different measures, and also with different helps, to get back to the situation where it was before. It's important, always knowing that there are people working there, and that there's a tremendous influence on our society about the day economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: The question is, I've been asked by the congressman of the Maddalen Irina, the congressman of the meeting with the president, the Ukrina war. "Madame Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. It's nine o'clock in the morning. One hour, right here in the Basque Country, the president of the government of María Chivite, of Navarre, will be meeting with the parliamentary groups in Russia to examine and agree on the serious economic and social consequences which are being attacked in the Ukraine. And those meetings we've had with the sectors, Mrs. Tapia, the kind we've told us about the rocket. A 350 kilómeters en Madrid, El President del Gobierno Spanish, Pedro Sánchez, ha propuesto al popular, que begina elmento le hagado el pan y la sal, un pato para afrontar de crítacón. You, too, have requested state politics: "Es necesari sumar fuerzas, hay circunstancias que trasciden la ámica habitica, Gobierno-opoción, y est es una de ellas." They're your words and I agree, but I want to ask you what's going on here? Because here thousands of citizens and thousands of corporations, as has been said, could not pay the drowned bills. Because the war with whores has upset the social and economic situation. It is the time of public agreements, Mr. Urkullu; what is the answer to the state of the war in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Good morning, Mrs. Iriart. The first answer is the complete reproach of the invasion. That's the first answer. And with all humility, self-control, we must do everything in our power not to repeat such a situation again. In a way, I'd like to make sure we share a prognostic. In your question, you use the word war. I think you'll agree with me: We stand before a one-sided military invasion, formed without justification and without provocation. Politics require light, military invasion. It is the assault on one side and without justification in Russia, the assault on human rights, the international legality, and the law. What is worth the greatest of our reproaches, and Mrs. Irrea, yours requires an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Berber]] Silence. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u9	I think, Mr. Urkullu, that the Basque Country is very clear in front of the investment. I think it's very clear, if you don't understand, you'll have to confess, but I think we'll be very clear. But, as has been said here, the answers are required in the presence of the situation which this creates. And unfortunately, the second crisis in which the Basque Society lives in a very short period is an exceptional and unexpected one, when it has not yet passed pandemia. And I think it's time to learn from what's been wrong and not repeat it. There's been electricity, gas, gas... The other basic products have cost a lot... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... to learn from error and not repeat it. There's been electricity, gas, gas... The other basic products have cost a lot. The carriers are on strike, the fishermen can't get out of the harbours, and in Europe thousands of refugees are knocking at the door, thousands and thousands of thousands of thousands every day. And when reality is so crude, we must assure people, because that's what people need. When you, when the economy of war is announced, with what is unstable, when fear is so diffused, the citizens need certainties. Knowing that their governments and their institutions will provide for their own welfare all the means they have at hand. That's the day the Basque Country asks of you from the assembly, and we offer it to each other. As in the Pandemian, so also now is it mentioned in conjunction, but it is not practised. And today you've tried, but yesterday we saw that you were involved in politics. And apart from the sterile rehearsals, I think it's time to agree with the shared solutions because we've been up from bed and know what we're doing and what we don't have to do. We make honest proposals. I don't like to raise the tone of my speeches or embarrass the debates, and I'm not going to do it because people expect solutions. We will continue to make constructive proposals of sincerity and loyalty, and look around you and see what is true and what is not. Because to enhance the lives of all the citizens, they have to give people the certainty they need now, and that we need people's agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. Urkullu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Your answer to the majority is that which you do not approve of. At the same time the state which has brought about the incident at the Ukraine demands an answer to the neighborhood, and an immediate answer. Thus, from the first day, we have done the answer structured in four fields: one humanitarian, worthy to receive refugees. We've agreed to work with organizations and operators. Two, the energy area. The European Union has a strong measure of lowering the rate of energy. Three, answer a social response to maintain activity and employment and protect the weakest sectors. Four, European funds, and public funds. Yesterday you proposed to form a special committee, but this committee has the commission to continue all these matters. Euskadin's been giving us answers from the start. The Ukrainian refugees table has been created to receive a reception table, institutions and third sectors have agreed to a contact plan, organizations, klusters, and economics are sharing programs to protect activity and jobs, and we will increase the supply of programmes which have been driven by energy's Basque organizations, and we will accept them on Tuesday for aiding the financial tools of the Basque Institute. With this we have made the following proposals in the state and in Europe: Measures to promote the maximum efficiency, to examine the facilities of re-enviable energy for the purposes of public interest, to create the transcendental European Union, to reflect on the limits of our powers, or to distinguish the price of gas and electricity from the price of electricity. Mrs Iriarte, we have EUR 150 million in grants to improve energy management. Last week we'll meet with all the clusters. This Tuesday we address this issue at the Social Dialogue Bureau. On Wednesday we had a working meeting with the first sector, and yesterday with the field of logistics. We will activate new financing tools to support businesses. The answer demands effective indirect co-worker strategy, in every respect: In the United Nations, in the European Union, in the United States, and in the Eukadin. He demands the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask, Ekain Rico, members of the team of the Socialist Socialists, the second vice presidents, and the Chief of Staff and Empedugus, the minimum income of income in order to guarantee the revenues of the euscal system fully integrated." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, members of the government. Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, today we are congratulating you, and you will allow me to begin by congratulating you all on achieving a goal that is widely supported by this Parliament, such as the transfer of minimum living income. And they will also allow me to do something that the Vice-Lehendakari did last Wednesday, which is to thank all the people who have worked in the different ministries of the Government of Spain and in the different departments of the Basque Government to get this historic agreement. Because this is a very important agreement for our self-government, but, fundamentally, it is important because it looks and looks at the most vulnerable people. As you know, the Socialists have made a commitment to work to integrate minimum living income into our own system, here in Euskadi, into our electoral programme. And it was a double commitment because, as socialists, we led a government, the Government of Spain, which made the express commitment to develop our Statute, and the socialists fulfilled it. And as Basque Socialists we also integrate that commitment into the agreement of the Basque Government, and within our governmental responsibilities we Socialists fulfil that commitment. And we also share the commitment of other transfers according to the indicative timetable of possible negotiations, but today we focus on the transfer of minimum vital income. And, look, there are those who can be content with the agreement, but the Socialists always aim more: we aim to give content to these agreements; they will understand me perfectly. We believe that more self-government must become a better self-government for citizens. And that's what we're in. And that's why... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ...perfectly. We believe that more self-government must become a better self-government for citizens. And that's what we're in. And that is why, the other day, Mrs Vicelehendakari commented on the important challenge for the Basque Government as a whole and for its department the full integration of minimum living income into our system. And in that sense, after that great step that we all celebrate, it is why the Socialists want to ask you, Mrs Vicelehendakari, what steps your department is going to take to integrate minimum living income into our Basque system of income guarantee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u15	Good morning, everyone. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. The deal is really very important, as you said, but also very complex. This week the signature is an example of an engagement which is shared by the Spanish and Basque governments, an example of self-generacy and reaction from social justice. And besides, we wanted to do it in the easiest way, because people who are directed are the weakest. The course of political agreement on something that might seem easy in principle, but which is actually very complex, has been successfully completed. And immediately, just to sign, a process has begun that we continue to share with both governments, and that is also much more complex than one can think at first sight. Last Wednesday's signature did not mean pressing a button and all the solutions are immediately put in place. The agreement itself recognizes at its sixth point the need for the creation of a follow-up committee to address all the problems that may arise during the implementation and implementation of this transfer. And the first decision after that signature was to set up a commission for it to be convened just the next day, on the first working day since its publication in the Official Gazette of the State and the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. We therefore agree that Social Security will continue to take over all the files approved to date and the corresponding payment to June. It will be from that month of June, specifically, when Lanbide will assume the allowances of all the quantities present and delayed, both of the collectors who request it from now on, and of the previous applicants. And this includes those who receive the minimum living income, as well as those who are not entitled to the minimum living income, they do have the right to supplement per child, which is a novelty that was incorporated in the last procedure of the law in December, and that was not in the very management order that we had signed the Basque Autonomous Community and the ministry. Therefore, we have not stopped working either before or after this signature. So from today I can announce two things: first, we will implement a Lanbide Reinforcement Plan with a team of people specifically dedicated to speeding up all backlogs and being able to resolve and pay the amounts corresponding to minimum living income or even child support. Secondly, and in parallel, without pause, we have already started the internal process within the Government to increase Lanbide's structural staff to deal with this management of this transfer. I mean, we're not going to load Lanbide's current template with a new task that could cause new bottlenecks within the body that we don't want at all. And of course, this Parliament... We will report to this Parliament every step of these, which will also have its end in the Governing Council. Thus, we also continue to work with the new law of the Basque system of income guarantee. We were waiting to clarify these terms of the transfer, to be able to sign it, to move forward with all the outstanding reports within the government, to come to this Parliament shortly, to do, as Parliament has asked, always with all the mandatory reports and integrating all the contributions. What I hope, and this has been heard on several occasions in this House, is that in the same way that they have responded promptly to all the needs that the transfer of prisons required for its proper functioning, I too would like to ask this Parliament to speed up the implementation of the new law of the income guarantee system that will integrate minimum living income and provide better and greater resources for those who receive these benefits, and above all, we will cover more people. So, this is the challenge we have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the hatred of Mi is made together by the members of Podemos-To the President by the immediateness of his education." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, sir. Good morning, President. There will be a gathering of pomp to-day, or at least this is his commission, the agreement he will receive. We've had to work in a very short time, and we've all had to do a lot of work, especially because we've taken responsibility on our neck to get a city agreement around the matters of education. And for that purpose, we had to put our own education projects beside us, and because we had to find a common place to give an answer to the challenges of our people. Common places, where we can all sign, which will then be necessary when the law of education is accepted, and even when public education policies are formed. I must say, it was our responsibility to enter that common place to strengthen the public school and the treaty against the segregation. And I have to say that we have felt enough of it for a long time, for that defence, but that we have insisted on it, and we believe that we have laid them on the table, and that we can already talk about these matters, which may take them as a common place, in this popular convention, in the education treaty... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... of these subjects, who can receive them as a common place in this country's compact, in the treaty of education. So that we have now put a way of securing ourselves in this compact, we have set up particular ways to ensure the want of public school, the quality of public schools, and the possibility of the growth of public schools. We also have the right to study in an inclusive school system. We have also laid down the want, the right, of the support of the foundations, in order that all the students may have it. To guarantee these three axes is the work of all, and to-day we have still the last moment to prove that this is the case. Now, from that point on, and this is my responsibility, and I'd like to believe that your government is ready, that you really intend to take these necessary contents to the bill of law and that you intend to take them to public politics. These are the results of very important decrees which must be stopped, and which ought to be grafted on them. So that's my question, Mr. President, to see if your government is prepared to guarantee the main axiss of education treaty in public politics and specific laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Hatch. It's been like you wanted to believe in Eukong until now. I think there are several of the elaborate examples and the agreements we've made, and those you can verify. In any case, an education agreement is here forming a texture between the legislative groups. After this step it's all about working and accepting it and sending it back to the parliamentary. The Education Act will be discussed and approved here. Our desire is that the fundamental agreement should be as wide as possible. For this purpose we have shown the true will from the first day, on the one hand listening to the opinions of all the agents, and on the other to the contributions of the experts. After a month's work, we have a basic document that has been receiving nearly 200 amendments. Your contributions have also been received. And it's closer to making a pact. It's the first step, positive, that shows us the way, Mrs. Hatsy. It is, in our opinion, a proper method of work to go on. If we agree with the principles and the laws, I am sure that its development will also be agreed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch mustn't speak. Mr. President, if you want to continue, I do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u21	Aukera baliatuz, bai zehaztu nahiko nioke, Gorrotxategi andrea. Two weeks ago, you laid the hand of your training to advance the educational pact. And both the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, with the support of the Department of Education, have made an effort to bring positions closer together. The result is positive, and we thank him on behalf of the Government. And I am also grateful for the willingness and commitment to this agreement that is being demonstrated by the parliamentary group of Euskal Herria Bildu. The process is being constructive. The background document is a starting point for confidence in further progress. This confidence is partly due to respect for a working methodology, as I said earlier. Once the foundations are adopted in this Parliament, it will be up to the Government to draw up the preliminary draft law. And our commitment is to collect all the agreements reached. Let us focus on the contents, on the objectives we pursue: transforming Basque education to adapt it to the new challenges, integrating diversity, incorporating new learning systems, combating segregation, ensuring equity, facilitating the participation of the educational community, stability and continuous training of teachers, autonomy of the centres, involvement of municipalities, innovation, new values, excellence, diversity, contract-programme, continuous improvement of the quality of education and, as I said to you earlier, also the essential role of the public school, Mrs Gorrotxategi. The legislative process has the channels for further progress in the implementation of the agreements. Let us therefore maintain the climate of trust and shared work, because the objective we pursue deserves it: to transform Basque education by adding equity and excellence. Trade unions have also had three aspects or three formal spaces to make their contributions: working meetings with the department, contributions to the presentation and contrasting meetings with parliamentary groups. They have therefore been heard and attended to. The process, in any case, remains open. And I, at this time, also take this opportunity to sincerely ask the trade unions to reconsider the open and constructive spirit with which the legitimate representation of the citizens present in this Parliament is trying to build a pact to improve education in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, a member of the Ciudads for the president, about the new law of education." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. President, good morning. I ask you again about the future of education in Euskadi. So far we have known some facts. It is a fact the failure of the educational system born of the current law. His Government's reports on the Basque region said this months ago, and assessments of different subjects in 2019 have ratified it, before, therefore, the pandemic we have suffered. Evaluations that have revealed the worst academic results of the last ten years. We're... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... 2019, before, therefore, the pandemic we have suffered. Evaluations that have revealed the worst academic results of the last ten years. We are, therefore, one of the autonomous communities with the worst academic results and with the greatest expenditure, by the way, by student from all of Spain. It is also a fact the decision to ignore in the new law the unfortunate balance of the last 30 years. Because in this, in giving new twists of nut to a system that pre-empts euskaldunization to education, consist, unfortunately, of the proposals that have been advanced. The latter is controversial about the vehicle languages we have read, one or three: between the Government and Bildu, or part of the Government and Bildu; or what the socialists represent, the Government and Bildu, with the Education Council, leaving much still to be defined in this regard. Because we do not even have a diagnosis of the causes that have led us to this whole situation, but in the search for solutions there are too many looks at the failed Catalan linguistic immersion and sectarian approaches to perplexity of Basque families. For all this, I ask you, lehendakari: With what criteria does the Basque Government approach the elaboration of the future education law?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, sir. Mr Iturgaiz, I would already like you to explain to me which of the laws in force refers to, because the current Basque law of education dates back almost 30 years. In any case, then I'll explain the results as well. You ask me about the criteria in the drafting of the new law. And I will tell you: the criteria for the drafting of the new education law will be those emanating from the debate that is taking place in this House within the framework of the paper created on 14 October last year, which says: "Parliament agrees to the setting up of a paper within the framework of the Education Committee to define the basis for reaching a broad agreement on the future of the Basque education system. The conclusions will be forwarded to the Department of Education to form the basis of the future Euskadi Education Act." End of date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u27	It gives me the feeling that his methodology stands out, because I've been listening to him, lehendakari, and I don't see self-criticism on his part. But the fact is that the 2019 report I mentioned earlier, to which you have not mentioned, is demolishing in terms of academic results, as was demolishing also the balance sheet in terms of euskaldunization. It is more than likely that one has much to do with the other, but I believe you are unable to recognize it. It is the most clamorous - let me say so - and the most regrettable, and the longest impact of the failures of the management of the Basque Nationalist Party. Here's a clear problem. And it is the result of putting forward the Euskaldunization – and let us make it clear – nationalism, education and training. I repeat: the worst results with the greatest means. And that's a responsibility of all of you. And ours, in the opposition, logically, is to demand correction in that new law that will be brought here to this House. And to rectify, lehendakari, is to adopt clear criteria from the beginning, from the beginning, starting with an objective balance of all this. That's what we think. Something you are not doing, because it is the controversy that prevails. I ask you about the criteria of the Government, of the whole Government, but there are many questions asked by Basque society: Can we expect better results, a more plural, less sectarian education in freedom, at the service of training and knowledge, lehendakari? An education that is not subordinate to euskaldunization on this earth? What preponderant role of euskera or two vehicular languages will that law have? Or three with English. Is there going to be freedom of choice in the language of the vehicle or linguistic immersion? Will schooling in the mother tongue be guaranteed, which, by the way, has been accrediting, as you know, because it is your reports, has the mother tongue been accrediting the best results? Should Basque families who have opted for concerted centres or are an option to extinguish? Will the offer be conditioned, or will freedom be guaranteed? That's the point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u28	Thank you. It's over, Mr. Iturgaz, time. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. As a matter of fact, sir, the criteria for the new law of education are based on a career or a career, and I don't know if you know them well. After three decades, the result of this career has been positive, we'll talk about the result. Data shows you this: An early leave of education is that of Eukadin, 6% and a half, nine and nine in Europe. The sum total is a hundred per cent of Eukadin's and fourteen in Europe. The number of higher studies is sixty per cent of Eukadin, forty in Europe. We've got the highest percentage of state-wide graduates at the Hezic High Schools. 80% of the high school students have more than two points in Europe. According to the experiment in Europe, English Proficiency is in the community with the highest degree in English. The school rate of students who are 16 or 17 years old is almost absolute six points more than in Europe. The slightest repetition rate in the state we're in. The school rate for kids who are two years old is 93, more than 30 points higher than the state... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... The smallest repetition rate in the whole state. The school rate for kids who are two years old is 93, more than 30 points higher than the state. The Basque Country University is among the 400 best schools in Shanghai. Three-quarters of all students make it an eucalyptic activity, and 99% of which proof is exceeded. This trajectory was positive, but we don't agree anyway. We have to encourage constant improvement, we must continue to carry on with excellence, we must give new answers to future challenges. And this is the purpose of the new law. To agree on a solid basis for constant improvement, excellence, and new responses. Mr Iturgaiz, all the contributions which your group has submitted have been collected, analysed, evaluated and taken into consideration in the course of the presentation. And I don't know if you're very aware of what the job you're doing in the paper is. In any case, a new law needs agreement. He needs us all to give up maximalisms, and look for a minimum common denominator. Our goal is not to pass a law for a legislature, but for a generation. That is why we are trying to promote maximum agreement and a positive vision. The law does not lend or reduce anything. The law adds, improves and transforms education when the preliminary draft law comes to this Parliament. We are committed to moving forward in a process that facilitates as much support as possible, adds equity and excellence, strengthens our educational system, and instructs our students in the tools and values they will need to meet the new challenges. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Theme list 6 Point: "To ask the question, As Amia Martína Mistha, a member of the Vox team, might have the political responsibilities of those who accepted a cord against the Constitution around Vox, as the Constitution has settled, as the President thinks." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Urkullu, I remember that meeting more than a year ago that I had with you, and in which, among other issues, I urged you to repeal the anti-democratic cordon that your party, among others, made to Vox. Months later, almost four, we had to give up meeting again because you did absolutely nothing to eradicate it. His justification was not sustained. On the one hand, the government is going, and on the other, Parliament is arguing. Mr Urkullu, you are an important part of the PNV and one of the main actors in the cordon of the shame subscribed against Vox. You know, Mr Urkullu, that these kinds of decisions are taken by the parliamentarians who vote for them, but they are planned and shaped in the seats of the parties, in their specific case, in Sabin Etxea. And we have no doubt that you knew at all times what was intended and that such a violation of rights was illegal. But that didn't stop them from moving on with their mafia plot and calling our complaint a patsy, as did one of their comrades. The plenary session of the Constitutional Court has been very clear: "the Bureau of the Basque Parliament has violated Vox's right to political participation, both in the name of the Joint Group and in the limitation of its parliamentary functions". The ruling of the majority of judges leaves a very bad place for the parties that took a decision, knowing that it did not respect the Rules of the House. A stroke that also stains the image of the institution itself in the hands now of a partial and sectarian table. By virtue of the decision against legality, which does not find any adjustment in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we have seen from Vox how our capacity for political initiative and control has been diminished for almost 20 months. The members of the bureau, including their party, have violated the rights of Vox, mine and those of those who voted for Vox in the last elections. That is the undeniable consequence of a pact of shame and political misery, driven by his party and backed by a political formation, Bildu, who still today considers violence as a legitimate tool to achieve its ends. And a violation of rights, as the Constitutional Court has ruled, and with very negative consequences for a political, legal, and democratic party like Vox. They are worthy, as you will consider, I hope, at least political. What is more, the Bureau of the Basque Parliament, its members, have shown so little respect for this House and so little moral squabble, that they are not worthy of the position they hold. They have shown a total inability to regulate the functioning of this institution. They have been so stubborn in their illegalities that they should collect their belongings and leave. And this is more than just adding to the many that your Government and your party have received in these months of the legislature and those that remain to be received. His law before the pandemic is being reviewed in the Constitutional Court on the grounds of unconstitutionality, at Vox's request. His law of local institutions in Euskadi has been elevated to the Constitutional for violating several articles of the Magna Charter and demanding an exorbitant supremacy of the Basque, also at the request of Vox. The High Court of Justice of the Basque Country gives reason to the hoteliers and condemns the Basque Government to the payment of the costs. Mr Urkullu, a democratic curriculum that is hardly equal. That is why I say to you that Mr Urkullu thanks to the judges, that of course, not to you, from now on our name, the Joint-Vox Group, with all the letters and everything that it means to me and to those who voted for us this triumph. That is why I ask you, Mr Urkullu, do you consider that it would be necessary to clarify the political responsibilities that might have involved those who approved an unconstitutional cordon around Vox, as the Constitutional Court has ruled? I mean, justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u33	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mrs Martinez, I will not repeat as many times as you, Mr Urkullu, Mrs Martínez. In any case, what I do know is what your party is trying to do, and that is to bequeath the Basque Nationalist Party and the nationalist parties. This was said by the president of your party, Mrs. Martinez. And I see myself in the need to remind you again of the separation of powers. And, in any case, my opinion is in no way appropriate to raise any kind of political responsibility. We met in front of a... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... to remind you of the separation of powers. And, in any case, my view is that it is in no way necessary to raise any kind of political responsibility. We are faced with a usual circumstance in the normal functioning of the democratic system, derived from the separation of powers. All decisions in the field of political institutions are subject to judicial control, Mrs Martínez. The Bureau of Parliament has legitimately adopted organisational decisions concerning its internal functioning, and these decisions are supported by the presumption of validity of administrative acts. Anyone who feels harmed may appeal to the appropriate court to defend their interests, you have done so. Parliament has not yet received the judgment, it has not yet received the judgment. In any case, there is every indication that the judicial body urges correction of some of the organizational decisions taken by Parliament or the Bureau of Parliament. He accepts his claim about the name of the Mixed Group, yes, and the speaking times; but does not accept, for example, his claim to have more advisers. It is only a matter of respecting the democratic functioning always, and not only when it is favourable to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Martinez andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u35	Mr Urkullu, your party was supported by reports from the lawyers of the House that do not exist; that is, they are once again lacking in the truth. They defended the legality of making the anti-democratic cordon to Vox, supported in a House report by the lawyers. We have requested those reports and they do not exist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u36	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, I represent a government. Elected me as lehendakari and me as advisors and counselors. That I am not Parliament, Mrs Martinez. In this House, look, you have also made reference to laws and non-compliance with laws, and in this House we might remind you of a long list of laws, judgments and decisions that you propose not to comply with, starting with the Gernika Statute itself. In fact, you have not been able to fail because you have no majority and you have not ruled, less evil. There has been no health cordon, Mrs Martínez, which has prevented her from participating and presenting her initiatives in this Parliament. However, it is undeniable that in your institutional relations with the lehendakari this so-called health cord has decided to place it on your own. I must remind you that a year and a half ago, a year and three days more specifically, on 15 March 2021, I have very much in mind, you wrote me a message informing me that you refused to participate in the meeting that I had convened for the next day, as you had done with the rest of the parliamentary formations. You refused to meet the lehendakari. It is you who build a wall in your institutional relations or with the parliamentary groups in this House. In fact, it is their positions that make relationships difficult. Its position is contrary to self-government, Basque self-government, its xenophobic and harassment speeches directed against migrants and minors, its lukewarmness and contradictions over the invasion of Ukraine. It is you who build a wall in your relations with your denialist discourses of gender inequality or violence against women or climate change. The problem you do not have with the Basque Parliament, the problem you have with your own ideas and the impact they have on democratic, civic and plural Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Intertermination, taken from the Congress of the Casanova Alonso EH Collector, to the president, to protect the Basque Autonomy and the members of the Renaissance" in front of the effects of the war. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u39	Good morning, everyone. Yesterday, in this parliament, we had a painful discussion to the point of the war of Ukraine. For once I agree with Mr. Prietus what he described in a shameful word about what happened yesterday. For two reasons. EAJ decided, by the hand of PP, to refuse the war, to reject the attack of Russia, to break the conspiracy, and to destroy the image of unity. The second negative element was that EAJ, once again from PP, had used the iopolytic argument as −, no doubt, but used the soyconomical debate to cover it. And there must also be a social discussion. And as reality is persistent, socionomic discussion will be a discussion about the so-called incenomical impact of ours after the war. Reality is stubborn, and its witness is the order of the plenon to-day. In the plenea today there were four initiatives to examine these social consequences. Four initiatives, one of them has retired. And very significant were the initiatives and who introduced them. EAJ has already asked his question: the effects of war in euscal enterprise. PP has withdrawn his own, seeing that his ideological colleague played in the same line: War incest in enterprises. On the other hand, the left hand, both Podemos, and the Basque People, have introduced an interpelation about the well-beings of war, and about their imperfections, and in their enterprises, but also in persons. The one that EAJ forgot and forgot, PP. And we think it's a perfect and proper discussion. We're not going to refuse the geolitical discussion, but I think... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... EAJ, and what he forgot, PP. And we think it's a perfect and proper discussion. We're not going to reject the gravitatic discussion, but we believe that this discussion can't be used in ours and in ours to cover the discussion of what we have to do in the circle of hands. The situation generated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, by the Russian aggression against Ukraine... We're not afraid to call things by their name... I would like you to talk about George Bush and Aznar and so on in the same terms when members are involved in unacceptable acts of aggression, or when they have been involved, but this aggression has generated a serious socio-economic situation in our society. It cannot be overstated, and it has renounced the exercise of coming here to read headlines, because I have shown and established consensus on the gravity of the situation. We have the stalled stalls, the stalled nekazaris, problems in the supply chain, even on basic issues such as food, we have a part of the carriers standing up for war, we have the citizens afraid to stop at the gas station in front of what awaits them, we have the citizens looking at their current account before deciding whether or not they can put the heating... I mean, I'm not going to go into the description of what we all know right now and it's focusing the debate not just on politics, but on society at all levels. The situation is serious, but we have not come here to make catastrophes or to recreate ourselves in the gravity of it, but to try to bring solutions to it from the political point of view, because we believe that is our responsibility. And at the moment some relevant political and institutional actors, including the lehendakari himself, have responded with the assertion that we are facing a war economy. War economy. It is true that we are in a war, in Europe there is a war, and that war has an economic impact, but we understand that this is an analytical framework, it is a conceptual framework, it is a political and economic framework that has its risks. It has its risks because it can suggest that citizens must assume unconditionally and acritically a series of worsenings in their quality of life that we do not have to assume in a general way. In other words, this is about protecting people who need greater protection from the impact of war. This cannot have a general and equal impact for all. Of course, we must be realistic and know that there must be consequences; of course, we all agree on that. But it is the task of the public authorities to manage the situation, manage the situation and activate all the mechanisms that do exist to ensure that there are people, the most needy, who are absolutely protected from the impact, and that the costs that obviously have to be shared fundamentally among those economic and social sectors that are in a position to do so. It is time not to talk about the war economy, but about the economy of protection, the economy of security, the economy of trust, the economy of solidarity. It is time for you, as the highest institutional representative of this community, to lead the construction of a collective network of solidarity that allows citizens to look at their reality without fear, without fear. It is a moment, of course, of uncertainty; I believe that many and many of us feel slipping by a slide that we do not know where it will end. There is a certain tickle in the stomach in the face of the situation, a situation that we do not know to what extent it will affect us. And in the face of that insecurity, in the face of that doubt, in the face of that vertigo and in the face of that fear, it is the fundamental task of the political power to articulate that network of insecurities and to articulate an answer that gives citizens certainties. That is what we ask again and what we offered you yesterday through a framework of shared governance of the situation, because we also have experience of other crises where we believe that it has not acted as it should. We ask you to face the situation with an integral plan, a shared plan with social operators, but also with political parties and unions, which renders all the citizens well provided and secure. That's what we demand. To activate the economy of protection, because we believe that the economy, the company, and the economic activity must be protected. I believe that wages and conditions of work must be maintained. We believe that people's rights must be protected by energy, and we also believe that every man's economic needs must be satisfied and guaranteed at the moment. And for that, if there's any resources. These resources must be activated in a collective way and in an integrated plan. We believe that the economic activity is −bai − that it must be protected, because some companies have difficulties, and others have already stopped their activity. To do this, we think there must be credits and direct assistance, with the rise of offsets and the cut-off sectors, especially the ETEs and autonomists. But that must be announced in order to secure these sectors. We can't say that the future will help us. Already, people... it has been three weeks since the war began, and the taxator needs people, not a promise to say, but concrete reality, to protect our economic activity. We need also to protect employment, and the quality of employment, and the protection of hire. They're getting paid for a lot of damage already, and that's getting bigger. We need it, and in the state, for example, we talk about an incest income, but we have to push it here from the public department, from the institutions, from the President, and from the Government, from the government, a strong demand for social agents, from the agreements which KPI will be able to resist, because we cannot allow these workers to continue in the capacity of bribery. And the minimum wage here, as we agreed, must be adapted to the social reality we have. This also must be proclaimed, although it is not of its own accord, but it has the Government to encourage this moral self-discipline. Of many things which are not yours, even between OTAN and other things you have spoken for the minimum pay and pay. And what about energy? Right now, it's in the middle of the discussion, and we think it's okay to ask for changes in other instances, and we make one, for example, around the gas, the proclamation that's around the deindexation. Welcome, Mrs. Tapia, welcome, Mr. Urkullu, at the request of the gas deindexation. You've said other things so far, but you also need them. [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...skaeraren sparruan. Orina art beste gauzuk batzuk esan dituzue, baita bathe ere behar dira, behar dira gure hezkuntzen esparruan neurriak hartzea jendea babesteko bono nergetikoak aktibatzeko, eta gure babes system was integral batan aztertu behar dugu egoera honori egokitzeko. We need a comprehensive short-term review and waiting for debates and laws that require other times, an urgent review of the social protection system to get benefits first to adapt to a reality in which inflation is eating prices and also the amounts of benefits, and, on the other hand, to make access to these social benefit systems more flexible, because the new situation is going to generate exchanges of people, who were previously outside, who have to enter that system. That's what you have to do. That's what you have to do. This must be done by a plan, and it is necessary to speak to the people in order to accomplish it, outside the legislature, and also also in the legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u40	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In my name, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, good morning. Basque Autonomy economy and people to protect. Three weeks ago, on February 24th, the Russian government began a military invasion over Ukraine. You asked me about the sizes that's going to happen. Let me tell you the measurements we take. When we talk about people, who are we going to start talking about? We must begin talking about the Ukraine, and when we talk about the Ukraine, we must not leave a gap in complete reproach. For three weeks, on the 25th of February, the principle of equality, of Justice, and of Medical Department, sent a letter to the ministers of the Spanish government, with perfect integrity to assist the ministers in the social answer of the Basque Government, to the people of the Ukraine. First of all, our priority has been to aid the humanist help and the people who are running away. Five days after the invasion, some March, we called the table between the Home and the emigrations. On that same day we opened the address "Refuxiaskad@éus" to direct and coordinate the community. The next day, an association of equality, of justice, and of the Police Department of Society, and of the Presidents began to plan a plan of concentration. On the third of March, the European Committee agreed to apply to people who have escaped the Ukraine a line of international protection. On the fifth of March, accompanied by the Red Cross, information for the refugees of Ukraine, and the first reception centers were opened in the three capitals. We even offered a phone of information. On the 8th and 9th of March, public institutions and social institutions were held together. At the same time the answer of the Medical Department and the Education Department was prepared to give service to people from Ukraine. On the tenth of March, the Council proposal was sent to all the institutions and institutions of society. I made a call to meet the Spanish Government and the social institutions. At the meeting at this table, the Basque Convention was accepted. On March 13th, I took part in the President's conference. I offered my co-worker to answer this emergency in co-ordinately, and proposed the themes which the state must determine and explain. This week, we've arranged two tables to encourage the county plan and follow it. The first was to receive the refugees of Ukraine, and the second, together with the Foru-deeds, to give them an answer to the minors who have no family reference. We haven't missed a second in three weeks. He's taken all his decisions on whatever progress it takes. Our priority was to protect people. Now, what people? Ukrainian. I repeat to him, not a single crack in the total disapprobation, Mr. Casanova. At the same time, we've conducted the social response, to maintain activity and employment, and to protect the weakest sectors. Basque people. The Ukraine situation is not only a great humanitarian crisis but it's a challenge to our economy and even to the economy of the world. This situation affects growth, and produces an increase pressure over inflation. The commercial exchanges which are directly involved in conflict are small. In our case, the year before, one and the other of all our exports, they took seven and three percent of our imports. Thus the greatest impacts will follow from the way of offering, and from the consequences of the inclination to the other economists of Europe. On Friday 25 we opened a direct communication channel to gather sectoral analyses and convened a meeting with the Industrial Council Observatory on Thursday 3 March. At that meeting, we shared a diagnosis with the clusters and analyzed the first steps. Through SPRI we open a service of care to companies that need support or want to carry out some consultation, offering a specific phone. In parallel, the Basque Energy Agency prepares a report with programmes that respond to the needs to lighten energy costs. As I said earlier, we have EUR 150 million in grant aid programmes. This Tuesday, at the Governing Council, we decided to activate new financing tools that are being defined by the Basque Institute of Finance and will be announced next week with a view to supporting companies operating in these markets or being affected by their consequences with our resources, Mr Casanova. And we have agreed with you to increase the budget for social emergency aid by 4 million with the aim of alleviating energy poverty, and it will be expandable. On Tuesday 15 a meeting of the Social Dialogue Bureau was held at which a declaration of condemnation of the unjust and illegitimate invasion of Ukraine by Russia was approved, and a decision was made to work together with companies, trade unions and administration to minimize... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... the unjust and illegitimate invasion of Ukraine by Russia, and the decision was made to work together companies, unions and administration to minimize the impact of the situation on the economy and employment, of course, with the unions participating in the Social Dialogue Bureau. This Wednesday, the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment held a working meeting with the first sector. It is noted that this conflict will lead to problems of depletion of key elements for primary production, as well as an increase in raw materials and energy prices, aggravating the situation. At this moment we are examining the macronomical influence, though there is much uncertainty. We're updating the predictives for the next two years and the results will be published before the end of the month. To face the great cost of energy and fuel, we have requested the European Union to distinguish the price of gas and electricity from the President's convention on Sunday. At the same time, we hope that the Spanish Government will take measures which will ease the intensive sector of power. On our side, we have decided to activate new funding tools that help the marketing tools of the Ucraine countries. We'll run them through the Euscal Institute in Finantz, and we'll report them next week. In the same way, considering that in sects connected with minor costs we have called eucalyptic companies, we have called the eucalyptus companies to use programmes driven by the Euscal Organization. These helps are the goals of saving energy, of producing and managing energy separated from efficiency and the sources of the century. We will increase the supply of these programs as necessary. In the economic sphere, the action of the Basque Government was also immediate, Mr Casanova, in advance of the investment, in advance of the invasion the departure of the people is planned, attention to the people, the exit of the people who are working in the area, in Ukraine and in Moscow. The same morning on 24 February, the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment is in contact with and monitoring the situation of Basque companies in the area, or those most affected by this situation. We have proposed the launch of contingency actions, triggering new resources that can be enabled within the framework of legal action that the European Union authorizes. We have set up the Behatoki of the Food Chain Observatory, and the aim is for the cost of production to be quantified, and for this cost to be guaranteed by the agents operating in the different links in the food chain. Yesterday Thursday, the Basque Government held a meeting with the Euskadi logistics sector. The aim is to share the problems caused by the energy and fuel costs in the transport sector affecting the logistics and distribution chains of the Basque industry. In the same vein, yesterday I sent a letter to the third vice-president of the Spanish Government, containing the five initiatives proposed by the Basque Government to reduce the costs of electricity consumers. All this in three weeks. In this way of helping us restore Euscalal economics, we'll also encourage European funds and public investments. We maintain the funds of Europe, and even the commitment to use their own finances with impatience and efficiency, to promote the vast future of the Euskade by means of the tracation of public investment, the green and digital transformation which will be guaranteed to the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u43	Egun on, scream. In these days of world jozobra and extraordinary situations, I have done something extraordinary as it is to hear enough of the Cope when I go in the car, the radio Cope, and thanks to that, that new experience, I have discovered things. Listening to your Tertullians I've discovered that (?) has invaded Ukraine. And listening to you, it gives me the impression that sometimes you have the temptation to focus things on yourself (?), mixing things that should not be mixed, and questioning things that I don't understand what comes to be questioned. We have reached enough clear agreements here in Madrid, including with you, to reject what must be rejected, to call aggression to aggression, aggressor to aggression, and war to war. And then, I don't understand why you persist in insinuations that only divert debate. You, Mr Urkullu, I think you have a problem with co-governance and I tell you frankly. And you don't know what co-governance is, because you here... when you come here to tell us if we practice co-governance among all those we govern at different levels, we (?We'll get together. No, that's not it. Governance itself involves the participation of actors other than institutional actors, and how co-governance will not involve it. Co-governance is not that those who govern come together to talk to each other, co-governance is to open up to different actors, to different sectors of society, participation in decision-making. And if you don't know what a thing is, you'll hardly be able to put it into practice. You, Mr Urkullu, who have asked for state agreements with the People's Party in Madrid, probably because you do not like the left being in government, prefer that a party with which you identify more ideologically, such as the People's Party, have more participation in decision-making, but at least the coating you have given it is that you ask for state agreements for Madrid, and here why not, here why not, what is the difference. Why Chivite is meeting with the political parties and you despise any kind of input, and it is even aggressive questioning our position against war, when we are posing a commission, dialogue, agreement. You have not only not activated extraordinary mechanisms of dialogue with the parties once the crisis has been unleashed, but you have not even kept the ordinary open. So, it's normal for us to understand that you want to repeat the mistakes of the previous crisis management, lock yourself in your ivory tower, talk to the companies, to the clusters, to the unions that more or less tell you what you want to hear, but refuse to engage in a dialogue with other social actors, even when they're reaching out to you, and what we're asking you to do is precisely frameworks, meetings and points through which to channel participation, as in the committee we requested yesterday, which you despised. In the last crisis, we believe, the late and little response was given to people's needs. You were improvising a patchwork of late and insufficient measures as the social pressure... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ...a late and poor answer was given to people's needs. You were improvising a patchwork of late and insufficient measures as social pressure demanded it, or as new fronts were being opened. Eta guk eskatzen says a little bit of Egypt's justu kontrakoa. One of the things that impressed me most in the policy of what we have been doing for the century is the capacity of incidence and transformation that had a single sentence, which you will all remember, of Mario Draghi, when he said in 2012 that of "We are going to save the euro and we will do everything that will be necessary". Probably few phrases have been more important in Europe's contemporary history than that. And what I am asking of you, Mr Urkullu, is that you make a similar sentence, make a similar statement to this society and tell them, with total clarity, that whatever happens, whatever happens, you will not let anyone fall. What happens is that you have a credibility deficit, because that of not leaving anyone behind and others is already said many times and not fulfilled. So, apart from that solemnity in your statement, we also want to see material and tangible facts. That is why we have come to ask you for a concrete, immediate and comprehensive plan. I know you're doing things. Yesterday we bet, in the preparation of this interpellation among the comrades, how many elements there were going to be on the list that you were going to read to us. Of course they do things in the government, they meet, they send letters, they do things. But what you have not done, today, is look into the eyes of the citizens of this country and tell them: whatever happens, whatever happens, we will not let anyone fall. And that means, as I said, setting up energy bonds; that means that if we have to change the protection system, it changes; that is to say that we cannot allow people to think twice before heating up; that is to say that wages cannot continue to deteriorate; and that is to activate all the resources that still exist – and many of them: economic, political and other – to activate corrective measures. That's what we're asking. And we are also offering you - given the gravity and exceptional nature of the situation - to cooperate with you. Please stop scorning those offers because they really are I believe walking in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Casanova, I am sorry that you have been so alluded to or so alluded to with a general reflection on what is the condemnation that this situation deserves. So much problem you have, so much problem you have in using the word condemnation, which is that we use the absolute majority of the House also yesterday? Is there such a problem with you? As for the concept of governance, co-governance, collaborative governance, I think you confuse all the plans of what governance is with what participation is. And as far as participation is concerned, I believe that in this Parliament, as was also said yesterday, I believe that there are sufficient tools, such as that there is a parliamentary intergroup meeting today. I do not know whether it exists in other parliaments, but in this Parliament we also have tools to address issues from what is the involvement of parliamentary groups, which has nothing to do with governance or co-governance, Mr Casanova. However, in any case, in the concern for people, in the concern for people, I believe that this Government, at least in the time that I preside over the governments that I have presided over, enjoys the confidence of the majority of citizens, also because we are true of what we say about commitment to people. And in the economic sphere we have put in place mechanisms to assist and accompany the companies concerned. Our goal is to help maintain activity and employment. And so, we have liquidity and financing aid through the Basque Institute of Finance: aid to ease the cost of energy through the EVE, measures to support the first sector through the Food Chain Observatory. These are measures and actions that we are taking in collaboration with companies, sectors and social groups most affected by the crisis and its impact on the energy price of fuels. They are, however, palliative measures. We are facing a global energy crisis, and decisions are beyond the scope of action in our community and the Basque Government. They also concern the Community, the Spanish. These decisions must be implemented at the European Council on 24 and 25 March and at the Council of Ministers on 29 March. You do not entangle citizenship with what are the areas of competence that each one of us has, it is worth redundancy. Some of these decisions have already been raised in my speech at the Conference of Presidents. And they fit into five lines of action. Disconnect the price of gas from the final price of electricity and the decoupling of the price of natural gas on the daily market, limiting the price of natural gas also in cycles combined with a module also of an established reference price. To carry out gas purchasing operations at Community level and to implement a strategic gas storage system in the European Union. Set ceilings at the maximum price on the wholesale electricity market. Tax reduction on fuels and reduction in the price of fuels. The Spanish Government has the legislative capacity to impose an urgent reduction in taxes on diesel and petrol; every passing day is essential and urgent. This means that if it can be done today, it is better not to wait until tomorrow, indeed. Expand the budget coverage of the social bonus to reach all those at risk of energy poverty - but I have already said what: the measures we have agreed with you, Mr. Casanova. Complementaryly apply palliative measures through subsidies in electro-intensive or strategic sectors such as transport or the primary sector. We are aware of the seriousness of the situation from a humanitarian and economic point of view. And we have acted in advance and following developments in close contact with the people, associations, sectors and enterprises concerned. We are working on implementing measures which must be complementary to the urgent decisions to be taken by the European Union and the Spanish Government, because we are not facing a local problem but a global one. And these measures must not make us forget the human tragedy that the citizens of Ukraine are experiencing, Mr Casanova. We must remember the fundamental: there is no justification for a unilateral invasion and armed aggression that we condemn with... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ...remembering the fundamentals: there is no justification for a unilateral invasion and armed aggression, which we condemn with all roundness. Respect for human rights, especially the right to life, is an end in itself. And this is a maximum ethics that we should always apply anywhere and in any situation, past, present and future. And I don't know if we share the same maximum ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpelation, made by Carmelus Barrojal, the popular team of the Ciudadans to the head of economics, patience, and environmental department, about the state of the Erestan Politics." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u47	Good morning. President, Lehendakari, Councillors, Councillors, Mrs Tapia. Many things have changed since the last time we spoke here also about agriculture, about the Strategic Plan of Spain, where the autonomous communities were participating, about the common agricultural policy. Some things have changed. No, no, I also have to say that from time to time I hear COPE. And there is a very interesting program called Agropopular that identifies very well..., is a program that identifies very well the problems of the primary sector. And, of course, that I advise you all because I think it gives keys to where some policies or issues so essential to our economy could go, to our coexistence as well. Agricultural and livestock farms and many food industries, many processing agricultural enterprises, were living in a very complex situation to maintain incomes prior to the pandemic. That situation, of course, has persisted. Moreover, after rising production costs, electricity, feed, fertilizers, seeds, insufficient prices and imbalances between supply and demand make many farms and many realities or situations unsustainable. And if not unsustainable, with great difficulties. Moreover, with the invasion of Ukraine agricultural priorities have changed even further. And in a situation of high inflation, it is necessary to look for solutions to maintain agricultural activity, to guarantee the same activity and supply, since Ukraine and Russia supply us with some essential products to Europe: cereals, maize, sunflower, etc. We are already talking with firmness and demand that to ensure the profitability of the farms it is necessary an extraordinary and urgent tax reduction, anticipate CAP payments, bonuses and activate immediately an emergency fund and a modification also... the structural change in European policy, as well as in national and Basque policy, in some aspects relating to the primary sector. On 21 March, on Monday, the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries of the European Union will meet to discuss the invasion of Ukraine and its impact on the primary sector. Recently the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Mr Planas, appreciated the deal with the autonomous communities at the Sectoral Conference on Agriculture and Rural Development at the Consultative Council on Community Affairs. And, then, those are the issues we certainly want to know about. Indeed, we are asking and talking about the Spanish Strategic Plan for the CAP in the coming years, knowing how it is and, in that sense, how it is valued after the latest events. Exceptional measures are needed to compensate farmers and livestock farmers. And, above all, we want to know that opinion of the Basque Government on these issues. We have on the table a strategic plan for the CAP for Spain, which is now being analysed by the European institutions and which will presumably have the answer by the end of this month, well, presumably. That just like that strategic plan, even that whole CAP, the same as today is just as unsustainable or as... or the same is very difficult to comply with as it is written today. Italy and France, without going any further, are already firmly speaking about the common agricultural policy which should enter into force in a few months' time. Italy has been asked to review the CAP, revise the common agricultural policy, or extend its entry into force for at least one year. They're proposals that you're making. For the difficulties that will lead to entry into force for farmers and livestock farmers. France has called for the European Union to rapidly increase its agricultural production in the face of the risks of food shortages and, called by the French Minister of Agriculture, the possible global food crisis. Those are his words in relation to this lack of supply and demand for increased agricultural production in the European Union. And we must remember that the French Minister is the one who is currently chairing the Council of Agriculture Ministers of the European Union. The new CAP and the Spanish Strategic Plan, if it enters into force as it is currently drafted, will be a new element for farmers and farmers. If it comes into force as it is today, it will demand many more demands - we had already analysed that - it will demand many more demands from farmers and livestock farmers. That is why the strategies contained in it, in the new CAP and in the Strategic Plan, need, from our point of view, to be revised or postponed, but in any case they do need to be revised, because as the Strategic Plan and the CAP are drafted, they can cause serious and serious problems and be added to those already in the primary sector. That is why today the question is: What proposal does the ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries have, and by the hand of the departments...?... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... proposal has the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, and in the hands of the agricultural departments such as Mrs Tapia, to review or delay the CAP or the strategic plan? That is a question that is there, on the table, and on which, of course, my group and in this Parliament also want to hear your opinion. It is a very important sector the primary sector, well, it is proving itself right now. You have supported, Mrs Tapia, you have supported the government position and, of course, you will be in contact with the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries at this very important time in order to make decisions that have to be far-reaching. And to know how you also see the sector in this country - with which you will normally meet - the situation for joint analysis. Since it's what you're playing. As I said before, things have changed a lot since the last time I asked you in this plenary about the position of the Basque Government with the CAP and the strategic plan. It is not a quiet or comfortable time in Europe to talk about long-term agricultural policies in the primary and food sectors, so we will have to analyse them, we will have to reflect and we will have to review, surely, or postpone. And, in that regard, we asked him what the Basque Government's purpose is for implementing the CAP strategic plan agreed with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in this context at this time. It is clear that this inquiry that we are raising today is more necessary than ever, moreover, because in order to know, since the situation adopts a complication, a special complexity and of important dimensions, to which it is necessary to respond. And that's why, Mrs. Tapia. We ask you this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u48	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u49	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, you are going to allow me to start with a subject that we have already discussed on more than one occasion, which is the principle of subsidiarity. The application of this principle makes it possible for the authorities closest to the territory, in this case to our agriculture, to develop the competences that were not taken into account by the Ministry in the implementation of this CAP strategic plan, as you will recall and have commented on it in this forum more than once. But that is the same thing that applies to that famous program that you are listening to in the Cope about the agrarian sector, I would ask you to listen to Lur bizia on Radio Euskadi, Landaberri, in Euskadi Irratia or to see the Sustraia program on ETB, which is much closer to our agrarian sector, talks about our agrarian sector. Because in the Spanish state, as you know, the agricultural sector is not unique, each of the autonomous communities has at least a differentiated agricultural sector, a livestock sector, a food industry. And, in fact, in this strategic plan of the CAP - which is sent in a unitary way by the Spanish State - there are, as a rare case, 20 agro-ganaderal regions throughout the union. So get closer to the local, that we're really going to learn a lot more from the local and what's going on in our case. Moreover, it is true that we have been working with the Ministry to try to approach positions in some of the interests of our sector, for example, on the subject of eco-schemes with the whole cantabrian cornice, as I also mentioned on more than one occasion. However, the last strategic plan sent, the last document sent by the Ministry to the European Union in December, was taken without a specific sectoral conference. So, have there been any agreements? Yes, but there are also discrepancies. And, in that sense, of course, the competitive constitutional framework, as I said, we believe that it could have been otherwise respected, we could have gone to a much more regionalized strategic plan and much closer to each of the areas. And it wasn't like that. We disagreed in figures such as that of an active farmer, who really wanted policies to be directed at that farmer, a truly professional farmer, who basically lives on his work, on his agricultural and livestock work, and who markets what he has worked, on his agricultural production. And, thirdly, we have also discussed and disagreed deeply with some of the distribution criteria set by the Ministry, because we believe that there are also communities that manage their resources in a much more efficient way, and that they should be considered as priorities and should in some way be rewarded, precisely for that efficiency in management. Some minor improvements have been made, it is true, but we certainly understand that this is not the strategic plan that Euskadi would have done if he had had to do it by his own means. However, we believe that, well, some measures have been introduced that are good for the sector. What time do we meet now? We met... administratively. The document was sent to the committee on 29 December. At the next meeting, all strategic plans from all states will be analysed. And as I said, of course, in these so-called agronomic regions the Spanish State presents 20, with the aim of approaching a convergence objective in 2029. And we still have a lot of work to do to converge and try to get closer to what that CAP should of course be. What are the next steps? Before 30 March the commission itself will send to the member states suggestions for improvement, requests for clarification of what appears in the strategic plans. And at the moment, moreover, the Ministry itself is in the process of public presentation of the strategic environmental assessment that this plan has to carry out. And more than 150 contributions have been received, according to the minister. They expect to quickly process this integrated environmental assessment, so that we can respond to that letter of request for statements from the committee in about four weeks... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... quickly this integrated environmental assessment, so that the Commission's letter of request for clarification can be answered in about four weeks together with the integrated environmental assessment. And the final adoption of the document is expected by June 2022. They have also agreed that we are not going to work together between the committee and the 27 Member States, but that we are negotiating bilaterally, which we certainly think is very appropriate. However, this is the usual processing, and I think we do not have to be wrong. Forgive me, Mr. Barrio, but we don't have to be wrong. The situation we are experiencing at this time is serious, it is true. But we cannot forget that the objectives we have set ourselves in a CAP strategic plan that reaches at least 2027 - we will see if we have to extend it - the objectives are clear, they are of economic, social and environmental sustainability; and those long-term strategic objectives cannot, cannot be changed as a result of a situation that is cyclical. Yeah. And that we will have to flexibly and adapt those measures that we are going to implement in the strategic plan without forgetting that it is really important to achieve those objectives. The urgent cannot make us forget the important. Then, what was said at the last sectoral conference last Wednesday afternoon and we agreed with all the autonomous communities, is that the objectives are clear and we do not give up on them. The strategic plan can be modulated in terms of implementation, it can be made more flexible and that's what we agreed and that's what we're going to do. But, of course, the application of these resources can be much more agile; we can at a given time make some controls more flexible, define the cause of force majeure that was already applied at the time of the COVID, bring resources to farmers, farmers, farmers and livestock. But on an exceptional basis, it is also possible to introduce one that can be cultivated all over the European Union without leaving spaces in a beard. Even those moments of difficulty as to the possibility of access to raw materials, such as cereals that we had established very well from where we could import them and under what conditions; the use of fertilizers is also made more flexible so that this type of cereals and that feed for livestock are not lacking. But of course we have to be aware that - and I want to insist on this - the objectives of the strategic plan throughout Europe are well defined, and now it is up to us to be flexible and try to measure the actions we carry out. Perhaps the first years in this serious situation, make it easier to apply them and then put more intensity. In addition, it was said that we should give priority to proteinising raw materials, cereals and so on, mainly for animal feed and, where appropriate, for the production of oil for the canning industry. That under no circumstances were they used for the production of biofuels, leaving aside the needs of the agricultural sector. And I think that these are really important agreements and that they are going to be moved by the minister at the next conference that is going to take place next Monday, where there are two things that are related, but they are different. One thing is the strategic plan and what is its administrative processing. And then, what measures must be taken concretely to deal with the situation we are living in; and where all those who were present there, all the autonomous communities, we showed our main, let's say the main problem we were facing, which should be focused on the cattle, milk and meat farming sector. These should be our priorities in the attention to this flexibility of the CAP. Why? Because they are the ones who are suffering the most when it comes to setting those prices. And where we also talked about the actual implementation of the policy associated with the food chain law, which leads us to set those prices are fair to each of the elements of the chain that are currently suffering as a result of the situation of war. It was also suffering as a result of COVID, because it must not be forgotten that all the thought that was coming to our farmers was suffering a very important price increase prior to the crisis in Ukraine. Therefore, these are elements that we need to take into account and that we need to address as a matter of priority. Yes, but without forgetting what is important, which is the long-term goal. Close and far, urgent and important. Both are, of course, perfectly compatible, but let the urgency not make us somehow forget what is important, and transform it into a way that we will certainly regret in the coming years if we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u51	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. As Mr. Casanova had come out, he had mentioned the Cope, for that is why I had spoken of agro-popular. But it is quite clear that yes, there are indeed many good programmes in our media; Lur bizi without going any further, or effectively subtracts. And, of course, they are analysing the situation in our primary sector and I am certainly awaiting what they can say on issues like that. But I do not deviate much from what Mr Lumberas says in relation to any of the problems that our field has. And those media don't either. I also read the websites and newsletters of (...) or UAGA. I also meet with them, and that is why I know the problems and that is why I am doing this. Because those thoughts and questions, or this interpellation that I am asking you, are also at the head, it is also in the concerns of these people who embrace and represent the farmers, the farmers of this country and who are there. That's why I wanted to go a little further. He talked about the discrepancies. There were discrepancies with regard to the regions. Finally, much more important decisions must now be taken in relation to the current situation, and that is why I was asking you your opinion in relation to the revision of the CAP or the strategic plan... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... much more important decisions need to be made in relation to the current situation, and that is why I was asking you your opinion in relation to the revision of the CAP or the strategic plan. And he says to me, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.We're afraid we're wrong"; I'm completely out of (?)agreement. The objectives are clear, they are there and they will have to be implemented. Therefore, the question was whether there is a need to review or postpone, that is, the urgent, that which you also referred to, the urgent in relation to... The objectives are there and those that are going to be implemented, but at the moment I say again that there are countries where these measures are already putting them on the table, important countries in the agricultural sector, like Italy and France, are talking, they are not going to disqualify, of course, their strategic plans, nor are they going to disqualify the CAP, but they are already talking about measures, and that is the important thing and that is the fundamental thing, I don't know, those measures that have to be put in place to defend the sector are going to apply and will also affect the Strategic Plan or the CAP, I say again, that it is useless, or not removing it, or not derogating it, but understanding that it needs to be reviewed. Because we are talking about flexibilising the application of the CAP by 2022 with a real advance of payments to producers, an increase in advance of payment of 50, 70, that is, we are talking about such things, greater flexibility in the use of beard surfaces and ecological interest to alleviate the effects of drought elsewhere, or here to alleviate the situation of production, with the possibility of using beards with protein products. There is also talk of modifying the proposal of the Strategic Plan of Spain. It sent it to the European Commission on 29 December last, taking into account the current circumstances. There is also talk, even further down the road, of revising the European Green Pact, because I say this again, this is the urgent, not the long-term, this will be the urgent or the revision of the European Green Pact in its different strategies, such as the farm strategy at the table, the European Union's strategy on biodiversity 2030, so that its implementation will not result in a loss of productive potential in the agri-food sector at this time, nor will the food sovereignty of the countries of the European Union be jeopardised. Those are the questions that are on the table. Indeed, because perhaps the answers are complicated, but that is what we have to do with what the French Minister of Food, who is again saying that he is the President of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, was saying about the global food crisis. In the face of those expectations or those forecasts or possibilities, such decisions must be made. There is also talk of asking the committee to activate the crisis reserve, designed to support the sector when it affects production and to be able to finance exceptional measures, to help in the search for new markets to ensure food supply. It has been said that we are interdependent in relation to cereals, oilseeds from Russia and Ukraine. We also have in the United States, in Canada, in Brazil, in Argentina, countries that supply us, which can supply us, what happens is that they fail to comply with some of the European Union's measures, but those are the issues that we can see if we need to review, and those are the elements for which I will continue to ask, Counsellor, and I will try to bring a motion for us to discuss it by the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u52	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u53	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. These are precisely the issues, Mr Barrio, that were discussed, and those that we have supported the ministry to take all these proposals to next Monday, to the meeting on Monday. But I do have to tell you that we also agreed with the minister on something else, and it is that to revise the European Green Pact in order to modify objectives, no. No, because we have put them on for 2050, and of course I believe that we must sincerely carry them out, because otherwise it is what I was saying, we can regret it. Perhaps these years will have to make the intermediate objectives a little more flexible, but 2050 yes, no doubt, and from the farm to the table, of course yes. It is a strategy that we agree with and that we have to work on the entire value chain. This is what we are doing from Euskadi from the beginning and we fully share that strategy, we do not want to change it. It will certainly be better, yes, but as such, as an approach it is appropriate, and there I think we do not have to go down to those limits, because we are repentant, I insist. He said: special attention to the milk and meat beef sector, which is the one that is suffering the most and the most throughout our area, why, because our geography is as it is, and of course, right now, I think it is worth paying special attention to, as was done with the covid in another type of agricultural sector, food sector. Special attention was paid to areas such as wine in Castile La Mancha. Well, I think that right now we are asking this to be the priority sector. Flexibility, yes, to attend to the urgent, but flexibility, not to modify objectives. Measures such as lifting the beard situation we were having at 5% by obligation, yes, but bearing in mind that later we will have to reconsider how we introduce it. Pay special attention in the food industry, because we talk only about cereal production, but what we do to transform them. It is a great opportunity in the midst of a crisis that we also have to transform that sector. And of course, from Euskadi we consider, and so we are told by the trade unions themselves and the cereals workers, that it is time to be able to attend to this situation as well. A supply chain, he also said, must be flexible at a certain time, probably, those cereals and those needs that we have, that have to come from third countries, to which we previously set limits by subject, for example, on the use of fertilizers. Yes, but carefully, exceptionally and transiently. We have to work to ensure that our farmers and our farmers are sure that what they work for will have an appropriate price in the future; that is, they will not work at a loss, they will not work to sell at a loss. That is an important element. The Commission has just approved this week also the CO2 adjustment mechanism at the border, which is very important for many of our products, what will happen when we bring... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... on the part of the committee the CO2 adjustment mechanism at the border, which is very important for many of our products, what will happen when we bring in imports, for example, of this type of cereals, will also be considered with these adjustment mechanisms, which will still have a higher price. I think it is not just security of supply, but security of supply at an appropriate price. And we continue to believe the same: the closer we get. Anything that can be zero kilometre, better. At a fair price, of course. And of course I am glad, even in this case, Mr Barrio, in your mouth to hear about sovereignty, even if it is food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that the legislatures of the Ostero Galirdos, made to the head of economics, patience, and environmental department, have been adopted by Eudel on the projects of public public interest." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u55	Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Madame Tapia, though we may be able to discuss a long time with the climate law, there is something that must be solved first. I'm looking at a top-level public-interest project created by the Environment Administration Act. In his own time we accused the municipal autonomy which we accused him of breaking down the municipal plan, and denying that a process of preventing the local defence of the townships was now used by means of the law of the country's projects and the public suffrages of the country. But now, when the term of office is opened, the councils have spoken through Eudel. And how to talk? They've put a new proposition and put the front upside down with the Solicitors. Esandako guztia, guk esandako guztia, puntuz puntu azpimarratu due and I will read parts of the report of allegations, as Eudel summarizes: "the statement of reasons completely obvious an absolutely transcendental disposition from the point of view of the municipalities and their autonomy. These projects would be superimposed on municipal and territorial plans with clear and clearly municipal authority. The Environmental Administration Act and the preliminary draft presented denaturalize and disauthorize territorial and urban planning. It gives rise to indeterminate concepts of impossible justification. The Land Management Act is being denaturalized. Timely actions are superimposed on planning, which until now has been guaranteed through respectful procedures. Projects of higher public interest are imposed on municipalities with little participation. It generates disagreement and concern. And projects of particular initiative increase the doubt from the prism of the public interest and the constitutional doctrine. It violates the clear and repeated jurisprudence that would not make it advisable to use this mechanism as a tool of the legal system and less to extend it to private promotion projects and to all types of projects, as this preliminary draft does. It may be caused by unconstitutionality." And rivet: "it is not respectful of municipal autonomy or the good practices that can be demanded." Esandakoa, the demolition. Sinatuta: Eudel, Gorka Urtaran, Santano eta konpainia. This to us. ? ) You threw us all into confusion and manipulation for saying it. What do you think of what Eudel said? Because we think it's time to take a step back and recite it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u57	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, I think it must be clear that we are at the beginning of the law's tramitation. In December, it was accepted to begin and for months it was in public exposure. What for? Well, all that you have to say to yourself in order to receive, Eudel, of course, you said in the former law that Eudel had no opportunity to speak, he has an opportunity and has spoken. Beraz, now Honetan, Eudelek exacten dituenak bi gauzatan oinarritzen will say. It speaks of the lack of references to that additional provision, as you mentioned, and that in these projects of higher public interest they have little capacity to speak to the municipalities. And I'm going to refer you to what? Firstly, the subject of the additional provision; of course we are in a very initial, very incipient process, we are collecting the contributions that are being made, the allegations and so on, and then they will be reflected in the bill, which also has to continue with different bodies issuing information. And of course, it will be collected according to all the law in force, as it must be. Therefore, the allegation of unconstitutionality would be understandable if it were a time when the law was already in this Parliament after it had been approved by the Governing Council, not at this time that it was in initial processing and still without collecting all those contributions. Secondly, Eudel speaks that, in fact, I have already read the document, it is much longer than all that. You've spent some time reading it, and I'm not going to do it. With your allegations you refer to that you do not have the capacity to report, do you have the capacity? No, but even three times you are consulted. The first, at the time when, as the preliminary draft Environmental Administration Act says, as soon as such projects are submitted to be considered as in the public interest, the first is dealt with by the municipalities, if they have a period of two months for the municipalities to issue their report, which will, of course, be considered and evaluated by the corresponding Department. Secondly, in the Committee on Urban Planning and Planning in the Basque Country, where a binding report is also required and where Eudel is present the second time. And the third time is that all these types of projects have to have the corresponding environmental assessment, where they also consult the municipalities again, then, up to three times. However, I insist, we are at a very early stage in the process of the law and there will be an occasion, as you have rightly said, to talk about everything to talk about, including the report by Eudel and many others that we will have on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u59	Yeah. As you say, we are at the beginning, and that is why I tell you this subject is to be decapitated, but your intentions are very clear and written: "negro sobre blanco. " It was sheath, kezkatzen nauen beast kontu bat aipatu nahi said age iruditzen find mugen inguruan era hitz egin behar dugula. Zinismoaren mugez, hain zuzen ére. Because in the plenary that passed the Environmental Administration Act, between you and the person who defended the law from the jeltzale bench, we were repeated, up to six times, that projects of higher public interest served only to carry out projects of environmental interest, of public promotion. And we were accused of criticizing her, not only of making noise and manipulating, but of lying and even playing dirty games. But while the nine... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... public promotion. And we were accused of criticizing her, not only of making noise and manipulating, but of lying and even playing dirty games. But, while December 9 was telling us these things, and while you were saying that the PIPS were exclusively to defend the environmental interest of public promotion, it turns out that two weeks earlier, on November 26, you had already affirmed the preliminary draft that intends to extend the PIPS to all kinds of projects and private promotion, while accusing us without blush of lying. Mugak don't give, Tapia andrea? And in the end, when we see nothing but instability, changes of structure to ensure the future, to face the climateal emergency, to lower our dependence on external energy, to control the waste, to promote the circular economy... There's a lot of work ahead, Mrs. Tapia. You have to choose the way to action or the path of agreement. "Please don't let the big stones that will only interfere with our needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u61	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. If we talk about cynicism, we have a lot to say. Nevertheless, what is received by law is not implicated; it is in the law. Anyway, I'd mention a subject that's very important. We talked about the public at that time, because that's what the law says. And now, in transmation, completely transparent, the projects of another kind have been placed. Completely transparent, in public exposure, without any concealment. There is, therefore, no such thing as cynicism, but they are directly referred to it. We're in the important moment, and in Europe, it's true, a few weeks ago, that the retractable energy of President Ursula von Ley, the president of the Usula von Ley himself, was the time for retrospective efficiency, strong, strong, strong, and strong. That moment has come, too, and it has also come to Basque. That's the situation we're living in, and, like european, I think that's the time to promote it. And that we have to do all we can to encourage it from here, even from our own jurisdictions; let us not say that we leave it to Europe, and that nothing is done here. Let's do it here, too, and that's part of cynicism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interression, by David Soso Rodríguz, together Podemos-Nozzeral members of the Antish team of Economics and the Chief of the Treasury, the homes, the small and middle-class corporations, and the economic shield that will benefit the industry." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, good morning to all of you. Well, there has already been a long and detailed discussion of this issue, but, in any case, Mr. Counsellor, I think it is important to ask you a number of reflections and also a number of questions on this. It is clear that we are experiencing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis following Russia's invasion of Ukraine: three million refugees, displaced persons and thousands of deaths. But it is also true that there is at present an economic consequence derived from it, which does not appear to be of a cyclical nature. At the time, already in December - it has since rained - your macroeconomic forecasts spoke of a downward revision of them, although it is true that you yourself, in those reviews or revisions, spoke of a retardation in production - not so much of a weakness in the productive fabric - and therefore that the downward revision would probably give you an increase in GDP forecast in the following year - in 2022 - as a result of these delays in production. I mean, you framed that review into a temporary framework. Of course, right now, and considering what we're living, I understand that you won't be doing the same consideration anymore. It is true that his Department has publicly left, saying that the likely revision of the economic forecasts in March is down. Here, too, I would like to ask you a question, and it is what effect do you expect, to the extent that this is probably not temporary, what provision do you think there may be in terms of collection. Because it is true that there is, on the one hand, the economic forecast of a fall in real GDP, and then, on the other hand, there is that which has to do with nominal GDP. But given the price escalation and the CPI, and on the other hand, if we are going to have any impact on collection, I would like to know whether the downward forecasts that may occur in the coming months can affect some aspect of the budget that is currently in force. And we will hardly encounter forecasts that are not down if we do not apply a powerful stimulus plan. So here is our first consideration, and it is that we put in place, as soon as possible, what your government announced so boldly when it presented the draft budgets, and it was that level of investment of 1.5 billion euros. That it be implemented, and that it be implemented as soon as possible, because otherwise, probably, the forecasts over time - this year - will go down consecutively. On the other hand, we also have doubts about the structural aspects. That is to say, the energy crisis, which is actually the underlying consequence or the underlying element of the problem that we are currently experiencing, and which, well, at the time when the downward forecast was revised in December, was due to a lack in the supply chain or some failures in the supply chain, and also a drop in the state forecast, but, as I said before - at the beginning of my intervention - it seemed that this was going to be temporary; now it does not seem to be. And with regard to the energy crisis and the dependence that Euskadi has on it, well, I don't want to be overly insistent on this either because there are probably many elements that Mrs Tapia should answer and not so much you. But I would like that, beyond what is already a consensus, and that is that the marginalist pricing system at the moment is generating... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... beyond what is already a consensus, and it is that the marginalist pricing system at the moment is generating what is generating in the European economies, but I do think it is relevant, as far as green taxation is concerned, and also as regards instruments of equitable sharing of what may have to do with this drop in economic forecasts and the need to stimulate the economy from the public, if you make any consideration. Eustat claimed that Euskadi is below the European average in terms of green taxation, in terms of green taxation. If you want, I'll transfer the data to you. But, according to Eustat, green taxation in Euskadi was 1.65%, it is true that in 2020. But it's still right now... or still below the European average of 2,25 %. And we do believe that, in this sense, it is necessary to make an impact... We need... And I don't want to do populism about it. On many occasions I have already told you that our parliamentary group believes that it is necessary to make an overall review of what has to do with the tax structure... with the fiscal structure of this country. But at the moment, and taking into account the energy problem and the energy crisis that is underlying and the need for stimulus plans for households, SMEs, businesses and industry, we believe that it is necessary to influence that those who at present and over the years have taken advantage of the marginalist system, which is oligopoly, and that last year, just last year, they increased their profits by EUR 2 billion, Iberdrola has calculated their profit account by EUR 3,885 million, we believe that it is necessary to make responsible for the payment of what is expected to be a new crisis, linked to the previous one of the pandemic, we believe that it is necessary to make the electrics responsible in this case. And also in Euskadi, because in this we do have the capacity to influence and have the capacity to self-governance. Not only for what we're interested in, but also for this. And, in this sense, here in this House, we could apply a surcharge, a surcharge, to the electrics to deal, in this case, with the co-responsibility that we believe must be given in this stimulus plan that should be developed by the Basque Government. We believe that there are crises that have occurred. Of course the pandemic was, without a doubt. There were others who, in the end, even if their consequences could come to pass, had the capacity to foresee them. I believe that the financial crisis and the policies that led to the financial crisis were, well, previously alerted by experts and international political actors. In this case, what they have to do with energy dependence and what has ended up resulting in this crisis also for decades was being warned, counselor. And you know it perfectly well. And, in this regard, we want to comment on it, and it is that the duties of the Basque Government have not been done with regard to this issue. We have told Mrs Tapia on more than one occasion for decades. Since the 1990s, it has been stated that it is necessary to move on to democratisation and energy sovereignty and that, if not, that degree of dependence would lead us to scenarios such as the present one. And with regard to what has to be done at the state level, as can be the reduction in the fallen benefits of the sky... I do not want to recall here the PNV's position on this a few months ago, but with regard to the limitation of the fallen benefits of the electric sky, in order to make them responsible for those stimulus plans, I invite you here to apply the same thing through the surcharge, as I have come to say before, and through green taxation formulas that your Government should apply and should be studying already. On the other hand, and in conclusion, we believe that this stimulus plan that I was talking about, in addition to activating what the public investment funds are in the budget and that this is actually being implemented and materialized, we want you, Mr. Counsellor, in addition to doing an accounting exercise with regard to the economic forecast that your Government may have, to also tell us about the extraordinary stimulus plan, beyond the budget, that the Basque Government can now plan to implement at this juncture. What are the axes they're studying? Are they meeting with social, trade union and business partners to that effect? Are they considering lines of action with regard to the most vulnerable? Are they going to activate more public resources, beyond those contained in the budget itself, in order to meet the needs of the most vulnerable because of this energy crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u64	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u65	Mrs. President. Partners. Mr. Soto. Good morning, everyone. Eskerrik asko, Mr Soto, for his intervention. I really appreciate the talent and the content of it. But, in principle, I want to keep the first sentence of the text that you presented in the inquiry, which said that "War is one of the worst forms of human experience." And I'm staying with her because I obviously share her 100%. Before I begin with the answer, I should like to say that the sanctions on Russia adopted so far by the European Union have been unanimously adopted, even by non-NATO countries. Indeed, at a time when the problems arising from the pandemic were beginning to be brought to trial and confidence returned to economic agents, Russia's invasion of Ukraine has disrupted the economic situation around the world, and the Basque economy... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and confidence returned to economic agents, Russia's invasion of Ukraine has disrupted the economic situation around the world, and the Basque economy is being adversely affected by the consequences of the war and the sanctions imposed on the aggressor country by the international community. You spoke - or interpreted it - of the economic crisis, Mr. Soto. I wouldn't talk about the economic crisis, at least for now, okay? The economy is growing and is doing so in a solid way. And when the economy grows and even, even, jobs are generated - and jobs are going to be generated too, even at this juncture that we are living - we cannot talk about crisis. That does not mean that it is not a problem, because it is a really important problem, and it will be an economic slowdown that will also have its economic effects. That is, we will not go as well as we would have liked to go; and that, of course, is a problem. You ask for the measures that the Basque Government is going to take to establish a social and economic shield in Euskadi that favours households, SMEs and industry. Unfortunately, as Miguel Delibes said, in wars no one wins, they all lose. Therefore, I regret to say that it will not be possible to take measures that favour households, SMEs and industry, although we will try to alleviate to the extent of our possibilities and competences all the negative effects that this war is going to have on them, especially on the most vulnerable. The ways in which the conflict affects us, both in Euskadi and the rest of the European and developed countries, are varied. By pointing out three ways, it would highlight the rapid rise in energy component prices, the shortage of raw materials and industrial metals, and the uncertainty that spreads among economic operators. In addition, the tensions that will reappear in supply chains will have to be added, and that will be even greater if the outbreak of omicron in China forces another massive confinement in the Asian country. At the moment, although there is great uncertainty about the duration of the war conflict and the fiscal and monetary response that will be given from Europe, from the Department of Economics and Finance we are carrying out an analysis of the macroeconomic effects of the war. The results of the update - to which you referred - of the forecasts for the year 2022 will be announced shortly, as I said two weeks ago, because we are obviously working on it. You were referring to what impact this will have on the collection. Well, I think it's still very premature to know what the impact on collection is. In fact, we only know the collection data for the months of January and February, which are not significant for the purposes of making neither comparisons nor drawing conclusions for the future. But, in principle, the data for January and February point to a growth of more than 10% of the collection in these two years. And we understand that in that sense, well, it doesn't seem like it's going to be that bad right now. Another issue is that it depends on how the invasion, war, etc. goes, well, because we have to review this data more intensively. We know that the greatest impacts will come from the supply of prices and supplies, or from the spillover effects on the rest of Europe's economies. We hope that the European decisions linked to the decoupling of energy price, gas price - in line with what the lehendakari requested at the conference of presidents - and the measures that can be activated at state level will help to alleviate the price escalation that affects households and the most energy intensive sectors of our productive fabric. However, we are aware that it will be necessary for Euskadi to also rely on its own tools to solve this situation. Thus, in the Governing Council last Tuesday, it was decided to activate new financing tools in order to support companies operating in these markets or affected by the consequences of the war that are being defined by the Basque Institute of Finance, and whose characteristics and amounts I will transfer to you next week after the Governing Council, as Lehendakari himself commented this morning. Investments in this framework, Mr Soto, not of 1,500, but of (...) million by the year 2022 are very important. And, indeed, we are going to try to make them stronger and have additional investments to what is now established so that, in fact, investment is a strategic variable that at least helps to alleviate in a sensitive way the negative impact that the war situation can bring. It should also be pointed out that since family budgets and business competitiveness are being affected by energy costs, the Basque Government calls on Basque families and companies to take advantage of the programmes promoted by the Basque Energy Agency that are in force, contributing to savings, efficiency and the generation and management of renewable energy, as already reported by the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment on Tuesday. In particular, we are talking about aid for the energy efficiency of the industrial sector, the MOVES Alternative Vehicles Plan, aid for self-consumption and storage with renewable energy sources and the implementation of renewable thermal systems in the residential sector, the PREE plan for the rehabilitation of facades, aid for the transformation of transport fleets and aid for the development of renewable thermal energy and marine energy. As we have already reported from the Government, these programmes currently have an aggregate budget of EUR 150 million, and we would expand their allocation as the situation progresses. We also maintain the determination and commitment to make efficient and effective use of European funds, as well as of own financing to promote a green and digital transformation that guarantees a prosperous, sustainable and just future of the Basque Country through the tractor effect of public investment. In this respect, I would like to make a nuance to a statement I made at the beginning of my reply. It is true that in wars no one wins, but at least we should learn lessons that we should not forget to build a better future for future generations. The real lesson of Ukraine's battlefields is that Europe must get rid of its dependence on fossil fuels as soon as possible and become dependent on renewable energy sources. We have to do this to avoid energy blackmail and, at the same time, send a message to the rest of the world that we take the climate crisis that is coming very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Soto, your word is yours. [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Counsellor, for the answers and for the reflections you have made. Starting with the first, which is also the one that has ended, and it is with reflection that no one wins in wars, sometimes there are those who win; in economic terms, sometimes there are those who win. In any case, tell him and insist that one of the lines of intervention that Mr Lehendakari has maintained today you did not specify, surely correctly. And it is that one of the elements that, a priori, in the short term, can benefit citizens and businesses is the tax reduction in the bills of light in this case, or other energies. And while considering that in the short term this is indeed a valid and successful instrument, it is also true, as you well know, that it involves a consequent loss of public resources to the extent that it is not collected. And that's where we and we put the same thing that I've come to ask you in the interpellation. And it is that these measures that the Administration, in this case what has to do with the tax reductions on the bill, in this case the State, have to make responsable to those who have been enjoying great economic benefits, when we were also worse in 2021 regarding the price of light - last year doubled the kilowattage in this country - while they also doubled, well, rather they took 2 billion profits from electricity. And, in this sense, I again focus on the part I mentioned in my first speech. I believe that here we also have self-government, we have the capacity in this case to fix, and fiscal instruments that make electrics co-responsible in what has to do with these stimulus plans that have to be put in place. And that, of course, it is not just the Administration, and in this case, therefore, also the public services, which are deteriorating in order to be able to cope with this moment that we believe that, presumably and unfortunately, it is not going to be temporary, and that, therefore, what can now be an economic slowdown we do not know how it will end. And it's not because it's aggravation, it's that the situation doesn't paint, of course, anything good. I understand that from his institutional position he cannot speak in any case of economic crisis. But I say to you that although we are not in that situation at the moment, and although it is true that in recent months in terms of growth and employment generation - both within the State and in the Basque Country - there has been an increase, of course, it is not what was expected, and of course it does not paint well what has to do with supply chains and the storage of raw materials for the development of certain activities of the productive fabric, and the closure, moreover, of certain industries, because of the rise in prices and the scale of energy prices, because it also means that indirectly we do not know what we can find ourselves with in the coming months. We agree with the issue of decoupling gas from the price-fixing system. A few months ago that was called almost communist postulates, but now it is to be thanked for the consensus on this issue, which even the People's Party joins in this. We do believe - he did not want to address this issue, but we will insist on it repeatedly - that there is a need for global reflection. If this is not what you do not want to touch, which are the deductions, incentives, exemptions from societies, the high sections of the IRPF; if you do not want to touch all that, well, but let's think about new tax modalities that could be applied in Euskadi and are not being applied, beyond the concertations of certain taxes and taxes at state level to come and apply them here and take that part of the quota - totally legitimate and that we consider that so it should be - but that we also do or enter into a reflection regarding in this case the green taxation and a possible charge to the electrics from Euskadi, that makes them responsible for what is right now an energy crisis that is paying the usual and the usual ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u68	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u69	Mr Soto, I am not going into crisis, not crisis, but technically in recession we enter when there are two consecutive quarters where GDP falls. We're not at that stage much less. We are not even in that sense in recession, because we are in economic growth which, in any case, even after the review, will be called solid; yes, it is affected by this situation, and it is affected in a considerable way, much more than we would have liked it to have happened. You tell me about a reflection. Of course, we are doing tax thinking, we are doing it among the institutions. We are trying to assess a little what the impact of the previous reform has been, and let's see what is going to be able to adapt in the future, what measures can be taken. With regard to the reduction of VAT in the case of electricity, energy or excise duties on petrol, diesel and so on, I sincerely hope that the State will adopt these measures. Measures that will, of course, directly affect us, because we participate in the part of those resources that we have. But we believe that it is necessary to take such measures, especially for sectors - I don't care about transport, agriculture or electro-sensitivity - that need cheap energy in order to be able to continue with the activity. And that's a key issue. Let us hope that these measures will be adopted in the Council of Ministers, I believe, on the 29th, which the Spanish Government has announced so many measures. Let us hope that these measures and other measures will be taken as soon as we can... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Let us hope that these measures will be taken in the Council of Ministers, I believe, on the 29th, to which the Spanish Government has announced so many measures. Let us hope that we will adopt these measures and other measures which will also benefit us if they fall within the scope of their powers. We will act within our own sphere. Mr Soto, in Europe the Next Generation EU initiative, and its main instrument, the recovery and resilience mechanism, represent the increased commitment to emerge strengthened from the health crisis and guide and build a more sustainable, resilient and just Europe for the next generation, in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Until the outbreak of war, the European Union's expectation was that decarbonisation, digitisation and investment in resilience would dominate the agenda of priority actions in this decade. Both economic and defence security are now added to this agenda. From the Basque Government we will work to ensure that the conviction of the European institutions in maintaining the commitment to environmental and digital energy transformations, which will contribute to the construction of a viable, sustained and just future for all. We must move on to depend as soon as possible on renewable energy sources, and everything in Euskadi is about keeping the course and strengthening our commitment to the green energy transition. The European Union now has the opportunity to rethink not only the tax rules but the broader fiscal framework, giving European funds a stable character as risk-sharing mechanisms when it comes to European public goods. The historian and writer, Yuval Noah Harari, explains very eloquently in his book "Sapiens. From animals to gods," that the key to human being is the animal species that dominates the planet, is in our ability to cooperate flexibly and on a large scale, and also argues that we can do so, because we are the only species capable of imagining and creating stories. And as long as we all create the same stories, we can all follow the same rules. Next Generation funds are an example of shared vision and collaboration at all levels: private audience between states and regions and between administrative levels. Let us move our motto of Auzolana, Euskadi common, to the project of building a new European governance for transformation and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the organizations of the United States, made of economics and of the chief of the Ogas, of the measures necessary to lighten the consequences of the great energy-dependence of Europe." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u71	Mr Azpiazu, what measures is the Government planning to take to alleviate the consequences of the high external energy dependence of Euskadi, which, as you well know, is hampering recovery and growth?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u73	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gordillo, today we have talked a lot about this issue, and surely and unfortunately, we will have to keep talking a lot more about it too. The absence of energy sovereignty in Europe, and in general in Euskadi and in particular, is not something that has arisen with the crisis in Ukraine, nor is it an issue that puts the growth of Euskadi at risk per se. In fact, an industrial economy like ours could not have reached the levels of growth and well-being that we now enjoy if we had given up on energy imports; therefore, it seems to me that attributing the consequences of the current crisis exclusively to external energy dependence is, at least, an oversimplification. Euskadi's commitment to the transition to a low-carbon economy has forced our region to accelerate the process of building green energy infrastructure, to improve our capacity for self-supply, while reducing electricity production based on solid hydrocarbons. Each and every one of the many energy and climate policy actions being undertaken by our Government and the rest of the European institutions goes in the right direction to diversify so that energy markets are competitive and well-stocked, to encourage through market signals the transition to renewable sources, and to compensate for the protection of vulnerable people and sectors during the transition to a low-carbon economy. Meanwhile, our dependence on transitional energies, and more specifically on gas, has increased. One added problem is that Europe does not have gas either and that the world market is subject to high tension. Once again, this is not an exclusive problem of Euskadi or even of Europe, but I tell you more, this is not a problem generated by the war conflict. I would say that it is rather a problem aggravated and evidenced by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u75	Mr Azpiazu, man, it is a problem of Euskadi, because considering that according to the latest calculations, Euskadi is barely able to supply by 10%, and a rate that is well below the Spanish average, 32 %, and the European average, which is 43 %. Which, I think we do have a problem with. I'm going to talk to you about oversimplification, your famous Basque economic thermometer, which says we have solid growth. I give you some data that deny triumphalism: inflation, 7.6 in February; barrel of oil (?), 140 euros; revaluation of the dollar against the euro, the BC has announced the end of the stimulus, and the Fed has already risen a quarter point; the Spanish bonus to ten years in historical peaks; the decline of Basque exports, recognized also by their own data; the Funcas report two days ago, which will have read it, strong, less growth, more inflation. You yourself have already announced that you have to review, as every March, that you always do, you have to review downwards the forecasts you had made when you made the budget. And other variables, that this is true that many of them you could not predict. Some yes, but you could not foresee them, and it is true, the costing of freight, the issue of semiconductors, and of course, the invasion of Ukraine. The subject of the invasion of Ukraine, in addition to the fact that it will affect, according to the latest estimates, European GDP, which will reduce it by two points in the coming years, as calculated. You know that in Ukraine more or less 40% of semiconductors are manufactured that are critical to the development of the electronics industry, specifically in two cities, in Mariupol and Odesa, and it is not known at this time what these two factories are in. Well, my question in all this, and my concern, Mr Azpiazu, is whether the government intends to do anything. You've talked about energy blackmail before or lack of foresight. Man, if we don't do our homework, if we don't make proper medium-term forecasts, then, indeed, we can have these situations. I believe, Mr Azpiazu, that the war in Ukraine has made us wake up, but the problems were already old. These problems that we are having with energy and with the transfer of costs to the final consumer and to businesses, as they were already coming from behind. Sooner or later we have to have a serious debate on the subject of energy, but, well, that I recognize, Mr Azpiazu, that's from another business, it's not yours. In any case,... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Well, they were already coming from behind. Sooner or later there will have to be a serious debate on the subject of energy, but, well, that - I recognize, Mr Azpiazu, that - is from another business; it is not yours. In any case, from the economic point of view, so much so that we talk about that Basque is different, that here we manage better, that, in short, it goes much better..., here it goes much behind the National Government, that is to say. That he has no intention, on the other hand, of doing anything until the end of the month. And this is compounded by the serious problem that has arisen in recent days of the interruption of the internal supply chain as a result of a series of strikes in the sector. I repeat, Mr Azpiazu, have you thought of any kind of incentives, aids, incentives, whatever, to alleviate the situation even partially? You already know the weight of the electro-intensive industry in Euskadi, we have already spoken; I myself have put forward some initiative on this, also to your partner, Mrs Tapia. But, going back to the realm of your competence, have we thought, are you thinking of doing something? I leave you some ideas: energy bonds; the Galician President, Mr Feijóo has already established them. Meet with the Deputies, but not to raise the tax burden, but to reduce it to families and businesses. Open additional funding lines, support programs... Put into operation all that money you have saved, Mr Azpiazu, which is losing value as a result of very high inflation. Finally, Mr Azpiazu, because there is also much talk in Parliament about this issue: when should a minimum living income or a GIR for firms in difficulty be used?, for those who produce, for those who want to undertake and for those who give work to others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u77	Mr Gordillo, I thank you for your thoughts, for the proposals - which I believe I cannot answer in two minutes because this is over, right? - but we will have the opportunity to speak. However, the decline in Russian supply linked to the war conflict in Ukraine has triggered the rise in gas prices, which, together with the particular price-fixing mechanism in electricity, has, of course, greatly increased the energy bill. This self (...) the economic and geopolitical cocktail in which we have to develop and be able to qualify as an energy emergency. You said that the inflation situation is unsustainable, that we have failed in forecasting... The thermometer is from March 1, and collects the February data. I believe that, then, no one could – or you surely – predict what is going on. But, in fact, the economy today is growing, too, as I say, despite everything. We'll see the future how we're looking at it, but the growth of the economy is still taking place in a solid way, huh? And, as you will understand, we have already seen in all the major crises and emergencies we have experienced recently, the solution to these kinds of issues comes from cooperation at all levels: from the public-private between states and regions and between different administrations. I believe that this is an important issue to which you have also referred. Let me use the Basque Hydrogen Corridor, a public-private partnership project that aims to boost hydrogen as an energy industry, as an example of the many initiatives in which this government participates with the aim of promoting the decarbonization and reduction of energy dependence. As you will know, green hydrogen is an important component in the energy mix: first, because it provides a solution for the massive incorporation of the electricity system of renewable energies which by their nature are not manageable and need the support of a storage to marry supply to demand, and, secondly, because it offers a solution to the remaining decarbonisation of sectors with difficulties in eliminating carbon dioxide emissions to the atmosphere, and which have an important weight in our industry, such as in the steel industry. Reference has also been made, you have sued actions by the government... I have communicated it earlier, also said Lehendakari himself, on Tuesday we are going to move forward a series of financial measures to solve specific problems of specific companies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u78	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Appeal, Ubeka Ubanz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, on development of the Osss in the 21st/2021 Act of December 28." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u79	The lady's head, good morning, Madame Cedui and all, well, good noon. It's sad to have to be part of the frame of Madrid, and it's sad to wait for Madrid in order to start the stabilization process in Osar. And even more sad and sad to face the provisionalness of Osarism that has never done anything so far. It's true that Osacides has made public offers, but these public employment offers do not respond to the provisionalness of Osacism. Most of the squares out there are facing interinoes in the structure of the planet, but we haven't seen the temporal dimension until now. We have not seen, for years and years past, the squares where the workers of the everyday work are occupied, that is to say, code them, insert them into the structure of the planet, and stabilize the workers by a worthy contract. We didn't see him. Nor have we attempted to change the model of contract which has become the mark of co-operation, since we have not seen, the contract according to the necessities of services, the contract of kangaroo, or several other contracts. The health department and the Osaur if anything has been stabilized, the Osata member contract has been a prior contract. But we still don't know whether Osarides, the Medical Department, will take advantage of the possibility of the stability process that Madrid has opened. We don't know if he's planning to do that, seeing what he's seen. Mrs. Garage begins to move, as far as the GMP is concerned, there are gestures, but, you know, the health department, the Ostiform, he's planning to move? We have this question and worry about the fact that we are already on the April April, and that we are about to enter, and that we are about to execute the trials of stability, to execute the duties, because the first step ends on June 1st, because June has to take place before 1st, and the second step is before December 31st. So we're late, and the rest of the time is very little, and we don't know what the plans of the Medical Department are. Besides, we see that the Sacred Table of Osectorials is broken, and that negotiation is to be made there, though it is true that there is no negotiation in the course of years, we do not know how the matter will be directed by what we have seen. At this moment, we see the Medical Department and the Osardi, right now... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... the way the subject will go. At this moment, we see the Medical Department and the Osar, at the most important moment. Not only for stabilization processes, but from different aspects, and from the necessity of a foundation of the Osa. But instead of having to act collectively and to answer the wants of them, the Department of Health is acting with one-sidedness. What's happening in the company plan doesn't happen anywhere. We have a 50-50-cent temporary breakdown. The month after month, the Osata plane changes. The number of workers who work in it changes the number of nomines. For instance, in November 2021, we had a full exercise of 38.715 nomines, but at work we had 36.047 people. You remember, don't you? How tall we lived in that time of day. In January 2022, 41.548 nominary and 38.684 people working. Not counting half of the performances, one-thirds, and partial ones. But the plantilla is from 27,600. I mean, that's the planilla accepted by the Council of Administration. Look at the people and jobs they're working at Osa in the daily place. It's awful. On the planetuture, that is, 27.600 of those jobs, those who are fijo are on the way back to 20,000. Of these 27,600, there are 23,800 jobs occupied. Then look at the situation. Besides, 1,500 have been retired for the last few years. That's the only one in the real planet. The chief physician, Mr Darpoon, was cheating on my plantilla for throwing down the temporary rate. Think of the planchilla situation that works every day in Osar. Her motherly affairs, except the licenses and the substitutes, were centered only on the rarests. If we sum up the situation between the two planets, and on the one hand we take the code jobs that fill the intercoms, it's − 2000 jobs that need them easily to stabilize. And on the other hand, if we take jobs without codes, one 3,000. In all, we'd be in 5,000 jobs. All this according to our calculations. And we should add to that (... ) After we have rated, then we should be obliged to post-stations. For by the example of Contract in force, because one man makes divers functions, because he is in different employments, or the Distribution of the functions hee does, is founded on fraud. But, well, the calculation of all these things should be performed by Osarides, and as yet, not to be said in legally, the job should be uncovered and coded for once. And also our public health systems are on our way to only one plan. Hence another exercise, to be performed in parallel and parallel, is, no doubt, in the frame of the law of Madrid, of changing the contract model, and of changing the criteria in order not to find itself again in the same state. And there, no doubt, the model of contracts has changed. Because we have, at any rate, large differences from EA En Madrid, at least for the moment. We have shortcomings in the measures we are required to remedy the high temporality; we have shortcomings in the articulation of effective measures to prevent and sanction the abuse and fraud of temporality in the future; and we have shortcomings in the adoption of tools and the culture of planning for better staff management. So, Miss Apple, what we want to know today is whether the Medical Department and the Osarides will use the opening path by Madrid to open the final stabilization process. We want to know how willing the health Department will be to make a real bet to reduce the provisionalness of the OsC planet, and how willing it is to reduce it. We also want to know if we're going to get the negotiation back, and whether he's changing the contract model to offer stable and lasting contracts. As for our young men, the talents to stay here, and the people who work at Osac, may also have the opportunity of constructing worthy projects of life. Without waiting all the time for the diary, without ever hanging off the phone, and how not, patients for their reference equipment. And every time they don't go, they'll find a different doctor with different teams. The care of quality health inevitably requires stability, stability.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer it, Mrs. Apple. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u81	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers. I'm telling you, it's just, um, you know, the Red Beetle program that you're making in the health section, you know? We have undertaken to fulfil these five commitments (... ), without taking pandemy for an excuse for the last year and a half. The consequence of the Covida has been very sensible in health... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... not taking pandemy as an excuse for the last half-year. The effects of the Covida have been very remarkable in the health system. In addition to the addition to the increase of the burdens, the object produced by COVID-19 has also conditioned the continuity of the planetal activity. But yet, we've been keeping commitments. First, by strengthening the primary attention and advancing to the persistence of the integration. Second, modernizing and adapting health installs and equipment. Third, we develop our own health research system and push the company network connected to the health area. We have a new strategy. The fourth, to spread the planets, to renew and strengthen them, and to improve the preparation and consideration of the professionals of health. And lastly, to get health without distinction, which is nearer and serving in the service of men. The first initiative that this fourth engagement strengthens is this: Renewing the orchids and increasing the number of them in stability, calling in 2020-2024 Squares in public employment offers. He also foresees how to make this trial, by applying new examples of elections and promotional processes, by adding the measures approved and proposed by the Euskulian law, and confirming transparency, justice, and justice. And this initiative has taken place in the following activities: We have completed the public offer of LEP, 2016-17, public work, except the 14 categories of OPE, which continue to operate under judicial investigation; the rest are completed; the public offer of 2018-19 is also approved and published by the public reposition of −3.535 at the first stage. It is recommended and published by −1.200.1.21 and published by the public reposition of the place. Therefore, considering what orders we have, and the will which we have shown by exact actions to attain the end of the planet, we shall not lose the choice given us by the 14/2021 law. According to the conditions defined by the king decree, it could enter 2,800 squares in the process. Now we are in charge of this public offer of work to publish and publish. With the development of these initiatives that are already under way, we are going to fulfil the objective that we set ourselves at the beginning of the legislature and that is nothing other than to consider the staffing of Osakidetza. In the government program we were contemplating the call of 4,000 places, which will be more at the end of the OPEs, which are already published, and those that we plan to approve and convene. Because, just as we committed ourselves to the start of the legislature and to continue the 2016-2017 OPE, we are immersed in an ambitious and complex process of stabilization of the Osakidetza staff, to reduce interinity and temporality. Over the past year and a half, and despite the difficulties that the pandemic has posed to us and which have also affected this objective, we have taken very important steps to improve the situation of the staff working in Osakidetza. On the formal side, we have defined a more stable framework of relations with trade union representatives through the regular calls of the sectoral bureaux, which have not been interrupted at any time. Monthly calls in which both management and trade unions define the agenda items. The issues are raised and discussed. There are agreements or it does not depend on many factors, but when possible, it is agreed. The 2016-2017 OPE has practically been completed. Except in the following categories under judicial investigation, the rest, 85, have been completed: the OPE 2018-2019, with a total of 3,535 places, is approved, published and convened; the OPE 2020 replenishment, with 1,002 places, which is approved and published; the OPE 2021, which is approved and published, with 1,273 places. The OPE of stabilization provided for in Law 14/2021 is awaiting approval and publication, but, as provided for in the same Decree, we will approve it and publish it before 1 June. 31 December must be convened and the process completed before the end of 2024. He mentioned that the Basque Government had taken steps in that regard at the Civil Service Committee. Let us not forget that Osakidetza is part of the Basque Government. At the moment, moreover, we are immersed in the implementation of the OPE of 2018-19, which takes place in two phases: the first has registered a total of 38,654 people, 83 % of them women, who will aspire to the 1,610 places that are called in this first phase and whose tests will be carried out between 18 and 19 June and 2 and 3 July. 19 categories are convened, giving priority to those of Primary Care, with the intention of stabilizing as many places as possible in an area that we agree is priority due to the special circumstances that are given in the same. The categories are: Family Medicine, Pediatrics, Nursing, Occupational Health and Mental Health Nursing, Physiotherapy, Matron, Optics, Optometry, Logopedia, Occupational Therapy, Social Work and technical persons of the specialties of Pathological Anatomy, in Audioprosthesis, in Dietetics, in Sanitary Documentation, Laboratory, Radiodiagnosis and Radiotherapy, and finally, the category of Administration. Last Tuesday 15 the courts drew lots on a census of 7,088 persons who met the requirements to be part of them. Appointments shall be made in the first half of April, once the allegations of persons who have been elected have been met. Each court shall be composed of five members plus one person to occupy the Secretariat, and the Presidency shall also be established by drawing lots. From here it will be the courts, as sovereigns, to decide the content of the examination, to elaborate it themselves or to choose to commission its elaboration or the accompaniment of external expert entities. As I said before, all of this involves intense work that is demanding a lot of dedication from us, and therefore we are not going to give up on... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...experts. As I said before, all this involves intense work that is demanding a lot of dedication from us, and therefore we will not give up the opportunity provided by Law 14/2021 on Plant Stabilization. And what I have told you are facts, what I have told you are firm steps that are being carried out, they are not intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u83	Well, you told me to begin with, you were engaged. It wasn't like that. We could give many instances, and it is not because we say that you have also told us on board that you had to abandon them because of the pandemy, and you told me today that pandemia has not been an excuse, but in the case of endurance, it is an objective data for the promotion of plans, and that you have confirmed them in the same way in the commissions. Then I've been told that you've dug out 4,000 squares in OPE, 3,35 Squares in OPE, and that's what you're always predicting in the square from the legislation of 2012 Marching publicitarians. The new announcement of the different squares is over and over. Por cyto, it's not true and false, it's OPE's criteria that have been negotiated and arranged here, here OPE's criteria are not agreed, and they're not agreed. What else? You have stated that the clarifications of the sactorial table have not been interrupted, the clarus, the convictions have not ceased, but the conversation and the negotiation have been interrupted. It's broken. We're glad you'll use the opportunity, but you'll forgive me, but 2,800 squares aren't enough, they're not enough. It doesn't say that we're responding to the provisionality we have at 50%. How much do you have to scale? How are we gonna get to the 8% target set from Madrid? You mentioned that you're working, but it's what we need here. We need precise commitments, we need deadlines. And what we need to know is the deadlines and precise commitment to those duties before June, and how you will do it. No negotiating? How are you going to publish the call you mentioned without negotiating? You have to add that to the table, too. We want to know when the Osapart will go on to increase the structure of the plan, because he has to open a file. The Kidiese has to show up, and he has to work for it, when, how, we need the deadlines. Besides, you mentioned the OPE process that has been running for two years now, our medical professionals have been charged with a lot of hard work. And even now, two calls from OPEnna, then the stabilization process, these people need to make the job easier, they need to be more efficient, and there, the health department, the administration, they've got an enormous inability to influence it, to resolve the treatment as required... for people can't be constantly present at OPE, presenting themselves in the process. People need to get easier. So this is where OPE and the Tribunal are resolved: speed, management: We want to ask for speed and efficiency at once from the Medical Department. And in conclusion, what we want to ask from the Medical Department is to actually negotiate as it should be with the delegation of the workers to negotiate. That these two hundred squares are not enough, but they are very far away to face the temporary point we really have. OPEa, solving the processes with speed, solving them efficiently. Because we can't keep workers in trouble, whether they've passed or not, and are forced to present them to another. We can't treat our employees like that. We'd like to ask you to get the interview and the negotiation with the unions, it's not enough to be a member but we need to develop conversation and negotiation, at least 3000... see from below, I've put 5000 calculations on your desk. All that you have to do is work there, and it seems to us that Hosaides and the Medical Department have the fat piece of work in the house, and what we want you to know is to start that fat job at home as fast as possible instead of the workers of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u85	Mrs. Ubera, with what speed we use the word lying. Please consider what this parliament gave its orders, and what we're doing and what we're doing. It's only to be seen that the left hand knows and that it can be publicly looked at here that they were given orders and criteria and that we're trying to obey them. On the other hand, you say that 4,000 squares don't get you out, no, we get more if you do it right, and I won't mention 2016-17, but 3535+1.002+1.273+08+2002 public offer. Make up your mind, and that's it. Because if you don't, it's a lie, because it's all you've got to do and you said they don't get you out. There's more than what you've already said. And all we can do by law, all we can get, the commitment to get out, no! Actions! I told you about the facts and I gave you the dates. And the phone calls are on. And that's what I said, even though pandemia was there, we've been working. That's... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] They're running. And that's what I said, even though pandemia was there, we've been working. That's what they did. Because, you know, you know the way that the public function imposes on them, and they must be fulfilled. And that requires calls. And this demands that all the squares which are called in this calling may be justified just as well as they are called; otherwise, what we place in it is the future of the people who go there, and their work. And that's it, too. It's about professionals. And everyone is responsible for the administration, but they are responsible for their union representative. And when you say, it's easy to say: they call it, and there is no conversation, and there is no dispute about it. That's why we have to come, Mrs. Ubera. And I remember again, that in this calling they don't only put on the themes the Administration wants, but that they don't go on talking about them alone. There are four points in an assembly every month. From these four points two unions propose it and take it away and are discussed. Like I said, there are times when there will be agreements, and sometimes we won't be able to make an agreement, but that's why we should sit down. And I think I have given enough arguments of what we have before us, and that we must sit down for that, for all of us. That's why we've kept them and kept them, not just hands open, but calls. That's the only way, and you know it. Otherwise, what do we want? So these public jobs are suspended? Don't you think they're guaranteed? Because, really, that's gonna give him stability, stability, our planet. That would make our professionals know that the relationship between our patients has been more stable, that they have been longer, that they may know them (... .). And for that, we've been working for a year and a half. Wasn't Pandemia giving us the opportunity to make things the same veil we wanted? Yes, but don't tell me that we're making excuses sometimes... Yes, of course, but from the beginning I have said that the pandemics have been affected in every medical system, not only in ours, but in every department of health. And that'll guarantee them all. But you can't say we don't keep our word. You can't say it's out of action, in that stability of the planet, can you? They're here. Here they are, there are summonss: June, July... It's dated. And dates and numbers. Numbers are: 3.535, 1.002, 1.275, 2.800 or more this year. But that's why you have to sit at the table, looking at everyone's responsibilities. Thank you. We'll stay firm and firm to move forward.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, made by the lawmen of the River Iriarte EH Collectors to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the health quality which the people of Toulouse receive from the clinic in Asuncie." Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u87	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...doers, ladies of Parliament, chief of the department, good morning. During the past few weeks at Asunción's private clinic, which offers a hospital service in Tolsos, the events of which have increased the concern in the region. For all this, chief physician, the question which I am asking you to ask the following question: Does the health department think today that the people in the Tolsala are taking care of their health through the clinic in Asuncie?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u88	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u89	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...andrea president. In this case, the most important thing is not that the chief physician of health is thinking of the workers' exits or contractions in La Asuncion during the last few weeks. The health department's technical services and the inspectors believe that it's crucial. They have to confirm whether the clinics in Asuncia are fulfilled or not based on the terms of attention, quality, and security. Last Wednesday, according to the inspection of plans and the scientific inspection of the director of the sanitarian organization, he conforms to the conditions of development of his activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u91	Chief physician, I don't know what to think anymore. I think you're backing the truth again, and today you've had the chance to give it a shot, and, beyond being informed of the problem, you've taken my steps and turned my back. What's happened in Toulouse for the past few months doesn't have a name for what's happening. We've been seeing doctors without specialization for years. Today, half doctors don't specialize in Asunción's clinic. How many other cases are in hospitals? Years with low medical ratios, years with endless rotations and wanderings of workers. We've been dealing with secondary health care for years and, of course, accusing him of it. But in the last few months, the situation has exploded (... .). In September, already the hematologist had gone to Barcelona, another job, and had taken care of the town by telephonic consultations until December. On the phone. It's been more than three months since January, and the service isn't to be executed. A nurse said to me yesterday: "Who can't control the symbol?" Now and then two hematologists in the hospital are working every week − according to their options in response to a written question that you've already asked us. And now we've learned that in the last week, in Dierio Vasco, director of the clinical medicine, Maria Carballus, the Hematologist will be coming in the next month: four months on the telephone, four months without service. But look at you, sigue. In a region above 60,000 people, a single cardiologist. The irpologist just arrived in Osaparte. Now, he's come to our private clinic to work. But this is what happened in February, and you made a small quote. All the internist doctors from Asuncion, together together at the same week, left the job... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... all this is coming to us in February, and you made a small quote. In Asunciion all the internist doctors of clinical clinic, together together in the same week, left the job. In the conversation mentioned Caballero called it "desvencias entre elquipo y la dirección." But do you know why the doctors left? Mr. Montoya, the owner of the clinic, reported a report that from 2016 to this day he had climbed into 69 talking about the cargo of work, and that to answer this the three more doctors were needed. All the internists have left in Asunción clinic. And the medical experts, the ambulance doctors, the residents have been derivatives of Donostians because they weren't serving in Asuncion. And at the Costian Hospital they've closed the doors to Toulouse, Asuncion, sending them back. And they didn't treat them here because there were no doctors. And therefore, in truth, the inquiries which your vision has made, or the examinations they have made, say that service is of quality? Really? He says the last month is the cake gin, but here, in the heart, there's a private clinic. That clinic that has no other end to making money. But what's incomprehensible is the department of health department accepting all of this. It's time to make the medical department serious, to complete at least the contract signed. How clearly the Covenant itself determines the Penalty of those things, which may be present before them, or the possibility of quitting the Covenant. It says: "la mala calida de los servicios con trascendencia para la salud, sorrowición desde 1,000 francs," or "a prepación del servicio persona no obitado debitamentedo, Penicilio de 1000 a." And then, for the sake of falling one after another, penalization and indemnization increase. For some are subject to the want of money and want of health, and the consequences of neglect are the victims of the people of Toulouse.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u92	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u93	The first news that comes to us about the lack of a professional is January 13. It is a single person, and it was not considered to affect the part of the service that contracts Osakidetza, because, as you well know, the Assumption Clinic has its own services that are not arranged with Osakidetza. On 19 January and 26 January, additional information was received on possible new abandonments of staff, in this optional case, in particular of Internal Medicine. In both cases, communications were sent to the persons responsible for the clinic, requesting information on the actual situation of the institution. The same day 26 was answered from the clinic confirming the march of several professionals for reasons of governance and organization of work. A contingency plan was also announced for the recruitment of four new Internal Medicine professionals. On 1 February, the clinic was required to update the situation. On February 2 and prior to the meeting held, from the clinic send the first contingency plan and road map with the requested report. On 4, 7, 10, 16 and 17 February, contacts and meetings were held with those responsible for the clinic, in addition to almost daily meetings between those responsible for monitoring the functioning of the Assumption, culminating, as I said, with an inspection carried out by the technicians of the Health Planning and Planning Directorate of the Department of Health. It is up to them and not the counsellor to assess whether the quality service that the Asunción maintains with the Department is being offered. The inspection carried out on Wednesday concluded that it did.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u94	Thank you, chief physician. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, given by Erasitz de Egililaz, by Ramos EH, to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society of the Political Society, concerning the Competitation of the younger." Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u95	Good morning. Good morning, Congressman, thank you. Good morning, chief of the Artola generouss. Our question is clear today. As you're saying, "EunkMork" is going to start 2030 this year. So, is this strategy of yours likely to be effective in getting down as much of the younger ones as clearly?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u97	The lady's head. Pues mi respuesta no puede ser más croa: It is the principal aim of the euphora strategy of the young men to be visibly lowered. Eukadin has not hitherto been an artificial policy for giving birth to young men, we have had no policies which are evaluated according to the purpose of increasing the rate of fertility. With the adoption of the new Youth Act, Basque society and its institutions have made a commitment to develop these specific policies. We will focus on objective and subjective factors that influence the exit from the home of origin. We will also develop innovative initiatives. We will launch the Basque network for youth emancipation and, above all, we will assess how the different specific policies do not impact on these results. We're going to have to work with the successive practices of testing, error, correction. And I'm aware that it's not going to be easy to achieve our goals, but, like our entire team, we're stuck in this commitment. Based on evaluation and learning, we will make corrections to a transitional policy. And this policy will be characterised by innovation, evaluation and learning which, once consolidated, will be transferred to the regulatory sphere.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u99	Well, chief of the Artola generouss, thank you for your sincerity. According to what I've been saying, RedMonk would like to send us a message this time, tell us to be patient, not to complain so much. By the way, I hear it's starting to develop a strategy that's going to be 2030 or something. We'll be talking about one of these other plans, which means we're going to make a plan that says we need a plan. The chief physician, therefore, of Artola generouss, is this: a goal, a mantra, which, in expectation of a plan, has but little power to give its fruits. And, look, chief physician, I say this, because it always happens with pretty young men: plans and plans, but no one knows what these plans are about... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... you see, chief physician, I say this, because it always happens with pretty young men: plans and plans, but no one knows what these plans are about. It's about 30 years old enough for the harba, the Bizia and the gym. And this is a drama when we have one of the lateest European sports age. We know that historical moments are living hard and hard, but we can't wait and wait for eternity, especially if we wait for them to cease to be young. And that's the problem, we're told to young people that we'll ever be able to make a plan, something will happen, but that never gets there, and we stop being young in the way. And if we look to what has been hitherto done, this government, for example, in the former legislation, IV. He started the young man's plan for 2020, which was running until 2020. And what did this plan bring? What is the evaluation of this plan? Well, we don't know. And now you're telling us that 2030th of the New Year's Economics strategy will be built. Your name is very popular, or else it will be only a plan of a young man's life, my own. And our question is, whether it will serve for what it will do, exactly what it will do. And even here, we don't know. And we don't know, because we asked through a written question, and you, March 1, two weeks ago, three weeks ago, because you answered that the opening phase of the design was in progress. That means you've had time to design this, but it hasn't been done yet. And it will be, it will be... It will, but we don't know when, and what will be done. To say he's going to make a strategy doesn't mean he can offer anything. I can say it will rain tomorrow, but if it doesn't, nothing will happen. The fact is, that to give these young people the means and precise measurements required are to be real. And it's a dramatic situation, yes, but the impossibility for young people to act is not like a meteorological phenomenon, it's not a coincidence. And here again it will be connected to the high price of rent, to pay for the $160 euros, or it may be that young people are concerned only after they have finished their studies. Well, of course, we'll have to consider all this, that it's essential to consider all this as well as the impactal plans must be this. And the policy must be integrated and co-ordinated that will coordinate among different departments. And for that purpose it will be indispensable for us to talk about rent prices, it will be indispensable for us to begin at once with bold steps in the field of work and employment. The young man's chief object of the law was to lower as much as he had been twenty-eight years. That's not going down as clearly as a result. That's not a ambitious goal. And what you show us today is this strategy. So I'll ask you again: Do you really think that this strategy is going to throw down a significantly-population scheme?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u101	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Egilaz, I have never said that young people have no right to complain. In your question you do not specify what you mean by a significant discount. The Government has established it, and it is to go down two years, until 28, in 2030. And, man, and you will understand that policies to have results, in this case, these kinds of policies have to have a transitional period. And it's not going to be overnight when the results come up. That reduction is a very ambitious reduction. We know that this indicator has hardly changed in a decade. We know that both the pandemic and the current situation resulting from the Russian-Ukraine war have a negative impact on objective factors, such as employment, as well as a number of other factors, such as the uncertainty that companies are going to have in order to be able to make such investments. But I would also like to thank you because your group has helped to design this Basque Youth Strategy. Although I'm sorry they didn't take the step of not voting against it. The no-for-no mantra is not of this government, but I believe it is of you. Your amendments have also led to a strategy that allows you to anticipate and consolidate the exit from the family home, expanding your opportunities, bringing it closer to the wishes of the young people, because you have amended the budget and included items in order to achieve this. And our bet is called the 2030 Basque Youth Emancipation Strategy. And we want it to be a priority. And we want it to respond to the current situations and needs of young people in the fields of employment, emancipation, equality, housing and health. In addition, the strategy will be linked to other strategies and other plans of other departments. And the strategy is at an early stage of design. Because I remind you, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, that during the year and a half that this Government has been carrying out, what has been done has been to pass the Youth Act, the first youth law in this country. The Euskadi Youth Council itself has acknowledged that the newly adopted law is a very good starting point for our common objectives. And in that law there are new concrete resources to be able to initiate these steps. The Youth Act has been very detailed and the structure and the different elements appear there. I would, of course, like to thank the parliamentary groups for their work. The article on rights includes the right to emancipation with the Basque youth emancipation strategy and network as fundamental means. And let us hope to continue to reach concrete agreements with a general consensus on youth policies. And I encourage you to participate in that agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barrius Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the Division of Equality, Justice, and Poly-Political Society, concerning the homage made to the Aginaga and his fellow-in-law." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u103	jaunak: Good morning again. Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. Good. We must denounce that a new blow to coexistence took place last Sunday in Berango, a lamentable tribute to the age of Aginaga, an attack on the essential values of that peaceful and democratic coexistence, a new expression of radicalism, intolerance and a new humiliation of the victims. It was carried out in a sports field disguised shamefully as a cultural act. And always on the same side, the left abertzale in pure state. Trying to turn a criminal into a symbol or an object of recognition. There are shown the values of the organizers, of that left abertzale, once again. And this very week the European Parliament has called for these humiliating acts to be banned. The municipality of Berango has allowed the celebration of this tribute in its municipal pediment. And these kinds of acts we already know have received the majority rejection of this Parliament and of democratic society, so that means humiliation to the victims of the... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... And we already know that these kinds of acts have received the majority rejection from this Parliament and from democratic society, which means that the victims of terrorism are humiliated and that we all want to live together. That is why, Commissioner, we ask you what measures the Basque Government is going to take and consider that should be taken in front of the organisation of such acts of tribute with municipal authorization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u104	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Miss Artola generous. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u105	(Artolam Albeniz): Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Neighborhood, with all due respect and also with the affection that you know I have, I see myself first of all in the need to clarify and matify and correct if I allow the first paragraph of your justification. It says that the Berango City Hall has not allowed any... well, it says that the Berango City Hall has allowed a political act on the municipal pediment, and that's not true. I invite you to read the explanatory note that the mayor of the town has made public explaining and clarifying all the extremes and making an exhaustive chronology on the development of them. I extract some sentences from this municipal note: the authorization granted to the Cultural Association Kandaru-Euskal Kultura Sustatzeko Elkartea, is granted only and exclusively for a session of verses and a meal. It is not legally admissible for arbitrariness, to refuse an application on the basis of subjective assumptions or convictions or assumptions. The resolution itself expressly indicated that any other activity involving the use of the premises for political purposes was not stopped at the premises. The banners reporting the presence of Ibai Aginaga in Berango on 13 March, at no time reported any act, that he was in that act. Although this fact was brought to the attention of the Ertzaintza and the local police. Auzitegi Nazionaleko Instruzioko 2. zenbakiko epaitegi zentralan doktrinan eta autoan, ez du evagiten halako egintzak prebentzioz devekatzea. As I said to you, I would like to remind you of the doctrine and the act of the Central Court of Instruction number two of the National Court, stating that there is no reason to prohibit acts of this nature. Finally, I would like to remind you, Mr Barrio, that in the face of the flagrant failure to comply with the municipal decision of the Berango City Council, the latter has already initiated a sanctioning file on the person responsible for the act. The municipal performance was impeccable and adjusted at all times to law and complicity, Mr Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u107	Thank you very much. I haven't talked about complicity that you said, but in any case, I'm going to tell you that everyone knew there was going to be that act, at least in the area. You have to do something, Mrs. Artolazabal, as a government and as a party. As a government, one more illegal act. And that act is illegal, it is covered by the laws of victims of terrorism who cannot carry out such acts that humiliate. And those acts also go against the strategy – that would have to seriously reflect – the Udaverria coexistence strategy of his own government. Something will have to be done by Mrs. Artolazabal for her Government to prevent such acts in public spaces with the assistance of minors. That's very serious. Boys and girls applauding the criminal. I think the Ararteko would also have to analyze these situations, because there are minors used for the exaltation of criminals with homage and Basque symbols that lose value in these scenes. Aurreskus, traditional music or makilas, gets dirty with these acts of exaltation of ETA. Existing legislation has legal remedies to prevent such acts. The Basque Act on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism in article 4; the Law on General Courts for the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism in article 61; the Criminal Code in article 578. And you could also do something like a party, Mrs. Artolazabal. The Town Hall of the PNV of Berango, gives a license or a cultural collective, and at the same time the tickets for food and homage to the age are moved throughout the village. You know that, counselor. What's wrong with Berango City Hall? Did you look somewhere else? Because I knew it, Counselor. Are you uncomfortable? You don't mind? Do you share any goals? Don't you think about the victims of ETA? Very bad. Rule a town hall has complicated moments. Is it easier to say no to a Berango neighbor for a license or subsidy, than to say no to who's cheating on you and you know it? You have to do something, counselor. This has to be solved. There can be no more ongi etorri. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u108	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u109	(Artolam Albeniz): Thank you, ma'am. Are you uncomfortable? Do you share some goals? Is that what you told me, Mr. Carmelo, to my face? Have you told us that, that we share the objectives that Mr. Ibai Aginaga represents? It seems to me that it has overcome the issues that have been raised in this area by the representatives of the People's Party recently. In my first speech I gave you the first paragraph of your justification. I shall now express my agreement with that second paragraph in which you note the rejection, which you not only note, but also that the majority of this House and of this people, Mr Carmelo Barrio. It emerges in this democratic society that condemns the humiliation of the victims of the coup to coexistence. The position of this councilwoman and this government with the ongi etorris is clear, firm and strong. And I invite you to read this paragraph of the Udaberri 2024 Human Rights Plan well, because in its first chapter it says: "radical political and social delegitimization of the culture of violence, and consequently we condemn public ongi etorris to former ETA prisoners". I don't think that can be said any more clearly. I also invite you to recall the words that Lehendakari himself spoke in this House in the past general policy debate. Ibai Aginaga committed serious crimes and was therefore tried and convicted. And when he served his sentence, he regained his freedom. Because we're in a state of law, Mr. Barrio. But he's not a hero, he didn't fight for freedom, and all he did was fight freedom... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... We're in a state of law, Mr. Barrio. But he's not a hero, he didn't fight for freedom, and all he did was fight freedom. The ongitorris never had justification, and they don't have it today, and they never will. And man, I remind you of the doctrine of the Audiencia Nacional car, which you say is that a preventive ban cannot be made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Elisabet González Rodríguz, together Podemos, the parliamentary member of the Anic team, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society, in order to receive persons transferred from the Ukranine War." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u111	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, The fact that the Basque Government has devised a contingency plan to accommodate refugees from Ukraine is good news, eta garrantzia ematen diogu elkartasun-mekanismok aktibatu izanari. This plan was introduced a few days ago. It is considered provisional, and includes the possibility of overburdening accommodation capacities. That is why it is possible that this question that I am asking you today will serve to define in greater detail what we are talking about. Mrs. Artola generous, how will the planet secure and protect and secure the right of all people to receive worthy, human, and quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u113	Eskerrik asko berriro, mahaiburu andrea. Well, Mrs González, the whole of the Basque institutions and society have an explicit will, as we have shown, to contribute to the reception of refugees from all over the world, and in this particular case from Ukraine more if possible. This determination rests on ethical principles and principles of solidarity. The principle of responsibility and shared responsibility (... 'tis also founded on tables, both in civil society and in euscal administration. The contribution of the Basque institutions is aimed at complementing the response of the General Administration of the State, which is responsible for asylum and asylum. And I take advantage of your question to reclaim the transfer to Euskadi of the competition for Immigration and Asylum. We are now ready to act in the event that the system of reception and integration of the State is insufficient, and the last dates at this time are already beginning to be insufficient the places that the State has prepared. Therefore, the Basque Government's willingness is to act in a framework of full and loyal collaboration with the Spanish Government in the area of the competences and resources that so require. And we will, and we are already doing so from a humanitarian perspective, from dignity, solidarity and universality. And I said at the beginning of my speech that our response is justified by two principles: ethical principles and principles of regulatory responsibility. And ethically, we take as a reference the Basque Social Pact for Migration, signed with a very high level of social and political and parliamentary consensus. Therefore, from the point of view of responsibility and co-responsibility, we are working both with the Basque institutions and with the Government of Spain, and we assume our obligations under international law, human rights and refugee law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u115	The Contingency Plan document states that we are in what can become the largest..., the biggest refugee crisis in Europe in this century. What the document does not say, but in fact, is the biggest crisis, because it does not see Turkey as the back yard of the European Union. And at this moment there are only four millions of refugees in this country, of which there are 3.6 million Syrians, who also are fleeing from the war. Almost a million Syrian refugees arrived on the shores of Europe fleeing the war, who did not drown in the Mediterranean. Badakizu zenbat hartu zituen Eusko Jaurlaritzak: 29. And I say this, because no one escapes the fact that the European Union incurs a great hypocrisy when it welcomes people according to their nationality, origin or skin colour. And that's what's happening. And you have to say it out loud and clear. We've all seen how the police beat the kids up in Melilla fence. And we know that the jurisdictions of migration are those of the state, but I want to talk to you about what is in the hands of this government. At first I praised the contingency plan, but now I want to question what this government does when refugees are not Europeans. And it is that the plan they have designed demonstrates one thing: gobernu honek skumenak, gaitasuna, bitartekoak eta baliabideak ditu harreran Arloan. You are willing to mobilize housing through Alokabide, to provide hotel stays, to coordinate with deputies and municipalities, to expand the portfolio of social services. And I ask him: zergatik ez duzue berdin jokatzen migratzaileak siriarrak, yemendarrak, kamerundarrak edo senegaldarrak direnean. He was a berriz god, Ukrainian given to be the harrass of Egypt elkartasun ekintza bat da éta azpimarratzen dugu. But you will agree with me, Mrs Artolazabal, that if solidarity depends on the place of origin, then it is not solidarity. Welcome be the Contingency Plan, the Reception Plan for refugees, baina behar duten pertsona guztientzat; biestela, diskriminazioa baga. Izan ere, giza eskubideak unibertsalak will say. Because in Euskadi there are many registered people who are already here, who live here in inhumane living conditions, who have no housing resources, who cannot access decent work. Is she an egingo two horrekin? Ukraineatik datozen personentzat egingo duzuen deploys egingo bazenute egingo, jaioterriari begiratu gabe, we would practically end the sinogarism in Euskadi. Furthermore, we do not escape that most of the people who are arriving are women with their children, and the contingency plan must have a gender perspective in particular in order to detect possible cases of trafficking and trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. It is being alerted by NGOs and we wonder if there is Ertzaintza working in coordination with social services to detect such cases, and if there are people prepared to provide care... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... if Ertzaintza is working in coordination with social services to detect such cases, and if there are people prepared to provide specific care to women and girls who are victims of sexual violence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u117	Thank you. Mrs González, I find it unfair and I also find it very serious and dangerous that we begin to compare solidarity with one another depending on origin. This Government and Basque institutions have always been strong defenders of human rights, and have treated all people equally. I repeat the competence of the Spanish State for asylum and refuge, and we have put all our resources in order to be able to give the best services to the people who are suffering from these situations. We have launched Community sponsorship to cater for all people, we have given dignified attention to people in transit, but this is a European country attacked by a nation such as Russia, which has a 2001 directive granting it a different refugee status, and which therefore have a number of rights that we have to fulfil. Of course, women are one of the goals, because the profile of the people who are arriving is minor accompanied by their mothers. And of course, that aspect is very well taken into account. We are prepared with a contingency plan that is coordinated by this Government together with the collaboration of the Foreign Ministers in a first emergency and emergency care, because we do not know, Mrs González, how many people are going to arrive, nor do we know when they are going to arrive. What we do know is that when they arrive we have to take care of them, and that's what we're doing. At the end of the month we will assess the situation, we will see what are the flows that from Europe, in these groups, will arrive to Euskadi and we can evaluate, review and improve, giving and implementing a medium and long stay plan, because these people are going to stay here and we are working, we have been working and we are going to continue working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 18th point in the subject list: The question is, that Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, made of equality, justice, and the head physician of the Society, about the means of the victims of the machita of violence, and the defence against them." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u119	Thank you again, ma'am. Urtarillaren 11n, Barakaldon, etxetik boot zuten emakume bat haren bost, 11 age 14 urteko hiru semi-alaba adingabeekin. Egyazuta zegoen indarkeria matxistaren biktima izana zeala, age urruntze-aggidua era bazuen. This woman has been in an appeal for more than a month and a half for women victims of sexist violence, waiting for her to be given access to the appropriate residential remedy. From the social organizations accompanying him, it has been reported that neither the social services of the municipality nor the Basque Housing Service Etxebide have offered a stable housing alternative to this woman, as required by current legislation and all current protocols of action. Por eso le pregunto: How do you appreciate the coordination of institutions in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u121	Thank you again, ma'am. Well, Mrs. Gonzalez, I'm going to answer the question clearly. I value interinstitutional and interdepartmental coordination as positive, without any doubt. Eta prove zuk zeuk eman didazu zure galderen justifikazioan. And I'm going to explain myself. The Department of Housing was going to execute the eviction in May of last year, but decided to delay it and set up the inter-agency coordination machinery. The City Council's Basic Social Service assessed the situation and agreed that it was appropriate to refer the user to another type of residential remedy, to a remedy that falls within the jurisdiction of the Provincial Council. We cannot and should not talk about concrete data, I have given none. I have neither mentioned the territory nor mentioned the capital, nor the decisions of the person to whom you refer, who also adopted them. As we are talking about a woman who is a victim of sexist violence, you will know that she has also been able to be served by the Victim Care Service, by the Department of Security for her current removal order, and that she has been able to receive the one-time payment assistance that my department manages. And therefore, the question that asks me of how I value inter-institutional coordination, for I would tell you that it is appropriate and has been necessary. The object of this government is to protect women who are victims of genetic strength. The final test is there, when the principle of equality was admitted 15 days ago, by strengthening the attention given to the victim and to his children. It is necessary, therefore, to cultivate them as persons and politics, against this disease, prevention and combat.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u123	Well, I think your answer is correct. Of course there's been coordination. Yes, yes, but the reality is that nothing has been done. This woman continues to wait with her children in temporary accommodation. Eta berak bizi duena benetako egoera da. Eta Barakaldoko Udalak ez Eusko Jaurlaritzak ez Gizarte-Zerbitzuek ez Alokabidek ez dute bermatu ezta etxebizitza iziziko eskubidea. And this woman feels doubly victimized, she feels victimized by sexist violence and she feels victimized by institutional violence. Zergatik? Because he has been judged by his decision to leave temporary accommodation, and he is being denied with administrative silence his rehousing in a stable space, because no social benefit is being processed. Etxebide and the Barakaldo City Council contravene the Manual of Resources for Women Victims of Machist Violence of the Diputación de Vizcaya, by which there is an institutional obligation to make available to these victims a decent housing alternative, excluding shelters or shelters; that is, a housing within four months, etxebizitza bat lau hilabetetan. But the system is responsible for putting so many requirements that what it does is not solve, not help, not accompany... and they are truly traumatic processes where in addition to surviving the macho violence they ask you: whether you have been requesting apartments or reception centers, that you prove the impossibility of staying in them, that you have sought housing for long enough... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... they ask you: that you have been requesting apartments or reception centres, that you demonstrate the impossibility of staying in them, that you have sought housing for long enough, that you lack a social or family network to maintain yourself, and, moreover, that your request has the signature of mayor, councillor and a report of the social services. And these requirements turn out to be bottlenecks instead of access doors to a protection system. It's not easy for victims to bring a discussion about her future. He hesitates several times, and, for instance, because they have spent time looking for the house or seeking the work. This is reflected in the answer of the housing adviser asked about this particular case; as if this, as if the time of search were measured by weight, as if the stress, fear, impact of aggression, extended violence in the time that undermines trust and security were not enough. Today I was asking him about this case, because, beyond the specific case, there are structural elements that make this and other women - who come to institutions to protect themselves from violence - become revictimized; because the attention given to them does not take into account their needs or the emotional and psychological impact of the violence they have experienced, nor is it done from a model that favors their empowerment and autonomy. If we think that every implicated administration has had an exemplary activity in this case, then we're doing something wrong. In fact, we haven't helped this woman and her children against a recovery process...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u125	Thank you. Well, Mrs Gonzalez, over the years we have been working and articulating an organized structure of care for victims. In relation to the specific case you tell me, I have replied that the city's basic social service valued your situation, and agreed that it was appropriate to refer this family to another residential resource. Several government departments work, and work, in a conscientious way in the area of violence against women: security, health, housing, education and, of course, ours, equality, justice and social policies. But we are counting on this path with the collaboration of the outlaws, the municipalities and the judiciary itself. And we have, I believe, everything can be improved, but I believe that we have - and we are an example in the State - a consolidated portfolio of services to care for victims. I am talking about the Satiti, I am talking about the service of care for victims - over 30 years old in the judicial framework - now with accompanying programmes such as Zurekin, the Coordinating Centre for Violence against Women, the Osakidetza Protocol, which has recently been updated in the face of gender-based violence and sexual assaults, or the EBA project for the unified management of gender-based violence crime files by Ertzaintza and local police. And I could continue to list a lot of projects, but I sincerely believe that the goal we have – and it is your goal as well – is to give attention to victims of violence, attention, the best possible, and coordinated attention. And we will continue to work, no doubt, so that the victims have access to housing, to a protected residence, to social and economic resources to build their housing, to free legal services, to social protection systems, such as the IMV, the RGI or the AES, to comprehensive care, in short, and integrated from the different doors of access to the system. And we have a long way to go, Mrs Gonzalez. 900,840 111 increased their data by 10%, receiving more than 3,000 calls; 290 women received one-time payment assistance. As you can see, we're still working....
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-18.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Time is up. So we're out of line, so I'm finishing the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one and eighteen in the morning.
