ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u0	Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Silence. Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before dealing with the list of subjects, I remember that Gustavo Angulo, a member of the legislature, has left the vote in the spokesman of his other party. First point in theme list: "Observation made by poncience to determine the basis of the future euscal educational system. Discipline and final resolution. There's a side shift and a counter shift. Are you guys taking the split shift? All of us, I think. Okay. What about the other round? On the side shift together Podemos-Nozzer Anitz team. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. It has been almost a year and a half since that power has been formed to establish the foundation of the educational system. From the first moment we listened very carefully to our group, to know whether it was a game or a matter of education; a fundamental right, which belongs to the whole community, and enables all citizens to form an equality. Considering this, taking our responsibility around our neck, we drew our document from the first moment, in which we proposed 80 measures which should be considered in this transforming educational system. These 80 measures were what should be indispensable to us in the presence of such a challenge. And also from the first moment, and when the poncism started working, we took the responsibility to be defending the schools of public headlines and to be a pusher. Because we thought that the two kinds of education system contained evils in the general education system. We believe that the school that is really common to all of us is a public school with public headlines, and that it does not have the importance and the strength it requires in our country, and that this transformation of education was an opportunity to strengthen it. So that the public euscal school was to be turned into an axis of the euscal system, and with it we began to work in the struggle against the segregation in which we had these two ends in mind. That's what I mean by our efforts, they've been honest and clean. We have received no other pressure, paid heed to all other things; this was our challenge, our aim, and we have done faithfully for it, and that it should be a concrete reflection. In this trial, too, there are social motives which have contributed, because we have not acted alone, I mean in the struggle for the public school and in the struggle against the segregation. Social agents, active educations, have been there otherwise, in other places, to hear its strength and voice also, and we have tried to hear and to introduce their own and their demands into this power. It must be said that there is a moment when poncia introduced her sketch, and we must say that the critics appeared, we were surprised, we didn't understand that draft. This sketch did not acquire all the data and demands given by the operators of education. This sketch did not take into account the doubleness, the unusual duality of our educational system... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... All of them. This sketch did not account for the duality of our education, nor the common sympathy of our education. This sketch paid no heed to the question of the segregation, and it was very vague, very general, and a draft that presented itself without any definite measure. That's why we became very critical at the moment. We didn't understand the draft. Anyway, we went on working. Although it's hard to work from that point. We worked, because we thought they needed us to have a concrete reflection in the last document. And I think, we believe our team did it. It's true the agreement we signed isn't our ideal agreement. It's not our perfect agreement. It's not what our 80 measures would ask for documents. But we believe, really, that after the work we've done, we've managed to include, put a lot of things into that document, put them into it, transform them, transform the education system, which they're going to do on a better frame, considering those two axes that were ours. On the one hand, we managed to convert this document into a programtic document, not a general text. And besides, as we have already observed, there are several measures which are necessary to us. The other, in this compact, is the foresight, that the rule will be accepted, which opens the doors to the publicization of the schools under the treaty. In a way. It's also received that the strategic plan for public school is going to be done. And that this strategic plan will also allow the strength of the public school to have a better quality, and, too, to spread its territory. In this treaty, yes, it now stands, and it also appears, that the index of complex education, which is known as −, who is known as −v, will be a public regulation. It is also received that in this treaty the child-school will be strengthened, and that universal, quality, and free offering. We have also concluded, that the universal compact, the universal compact, should be concluded by the compact of the treaty; for we should ask those who wish to be under the compact of the schools, to fulfil so many certain measures. Even studying and accepting students must be balanced. That is to say, a certain amount of difference between our contributions and those which are present. However, this is the first step, the first part, and now the second part comes. We have an agreement, but how this agreement develops, it will succeed more or less. Not just the law, the law will soon come, the educational law. But before and after this, certain very important decrees come to us, and decide what our education system will be. Here, as we have been, our team will be watching and watching and watching, as always, in this agreement. That what we've accomplished to insert really happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. Alegez, the socialist Basque, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u3	Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. In the first place, it is a special and delightful day, which is doubtless due to the work done in this chamber. Therefore, my first words will be to thank the members of the legislature who have worked so hard for this time. Mien hator, Ilérese, Leixuri Arrigalga, and Jose Antonio Pastor, my teammate. Especially for you my deepest thanks. Because you can make a deal, because you've put politics, dialogue, and people's sense into practice. And it's not a small thing in those days. Today is not the end, it's the exit. And how important it is to start with a responsibilities-based deal. Today, we take a first step to develop the future, and in this way our principles are clear. Public education, tringuism, improvements of the results. It's just the accounts we've been up to these weeks of socialists. Today, as in recent weeks, it is a day to show Basque society that, beyond differences, the agreement is possible. That education also unites different sensibilities, in a system that welcomes plurality with absolute naturality. To make possible inclusive education for all and for all. Today, as always, the Socialist Party is as it was and will continue to be, in the great agreements. Because this is a great agreement, the one that lays the foundations for an educational system, which shapes the future of this country. What should make of Euskadi that land of opportunity where our young people and our young people, have opportunities, find in education the tool to make possible the best tomorrow's Euskadi. We are a serious party, or, at least, so I think, responsible and country-wise. That's why, that's precisely why... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... we are a serious party, or, at least, so I think, responsible and country-wise. That is why we have been particularly demanding. That is why we have set aside the complacency to look tomorrow with ambition. The proud look on our past, on the law that has brought us here, cannot cloud our eyes. And that ambition tells us about the need to improve results and to be consistent with the economic effort being made by the public, about the need to strengthen and improve a public school that has been an example and that has to remain an example for many, and that should not be relegated to the agreed one. The unacceptable rates of school segregation and the need, of course, to strengthen the inclusive nature of education and social cohesion itself. From the effective contribution of the education system, and particularly of the Basque public school, to the recovery of the Basque language, which often does not correspond, to the misfortune of all of us and all of us, with the use. The Socialists are clear that the central axis, the subject, the recipient of all this effort and of this great agreement, must be none other than the Basque pupil, because education must be an instrument for achieving equality in its maximum expression, equal opportunities for achieving school success and competition in all the teachings. If Basque society has changed a lot in the last 30 years, the education system cannot be alien to these changes and that transformation. The Basque Socialists have been demanding and demanding for three fundamental reasons: firstly, because we need a commitment decided by the public school, because it is the one that truly guarantees the right to education; secondly, because the commitment to a single model is not in keeping with the socio-linguistic reality of Euskadi, because we want our pupils to have more competence to face an increasingly globalised world of work, and because it is not a question of our children speaking a language well, but that language allows them to learn much more, and thirdly, because we understand that an objective of the reform must be to improve the results, and this requires the establishment of evaluation systems that allow the autonomy of the centres to be enhanced and the management of their educational projects to be improved. That is why the Socialists said so far at the presentation table to reorient a project that was headed in a way that we did not like. And if today there is a contrast of ideas, if today there is a deeper reflection on the future of our education, it is precisely because of the objections that socialists raise on those issues that are on the table today: public school, trilingualism and the evaluation of results. And time, modestly, I think it has given us reason, because those, precisely those have been the pillars of this great agreement. But this is not the point of arrival, but the point of departure. The text that we are working on and agreeing on here must be a worthy successor to the education law that has brought us here, that law of the Basque Public School that we adopted in this House in 1993, and it must be, of course, responding to the challenges that we have raised and others that we must not forget, such as the demographic challenge, the attention to immigrant students or to special education, which must not, of course, fall into oblivion. It is time to re-enact the publication, as it was also done in the 1990s, and not to give the 50% distribution as natural things as established. We've got history. We have an example, a Basque model, to make this reform without confession. If we change the present law, it must be for the sake of another, at least 30 years old, who places the pupil in the centre, who improves the preparation, a law which meets our futures, and which rests on the public system. I hope today's agreement is useful, in order to establish a common diagnosis, and to encourage the sharing and successful educational reform. The Basque Socialists are very clear that the aim is not to have a new law of education, but to have the best law of education, that which re-places us as a mirror in which others can look at each other, that which makes it possible for the Euskadi of the future to be that of innovation, of development, of excellence, of entrepreneurship and of modernity. A law that like the current one is durable in time and guarantees equality, good performance, and competences for the best employment. A law that makes us worthy heirs of those who were before us here. A law that is the best tribute to those who gave their lives for this country, resisted to make possible a place where thinking was not a crime, where the different one is respected and that make possible agreements like today's one. Thank you, Fernando Buesa and José Ramone Recde.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u4	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u5	Thank you, Chief. This time, without kisses, if you'll excuse me. President, Chief, Member of Parliament, members of education and members of this parliament with us today, all good days. I want to start by saying that the Basque Country has no proper educational system, we don't have a special educational system in the Basque Country. Our education system is divided into two states and three administrations. I'm aware of this, we want to build in the Basque Country an independent public system of education. And we're building this day by schools, neighbors, villages, and different institutions. And so, for the last few years, we came to a conclusion: this model of education is in full force... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... We're building it. And so we came to a conclusion for the last few years: this model of education in force is utterly exhausted; we have no proper normative frame, which puts the limits of education we would like to construct. When we're in the last decade, the stop that's given in the Euscala can plunge us into this Euscalation in front of a retroduction. Segregation hits our education system completely, and our education system increases, which leads us to two-speed education systems. The endless bureaucracy, the provisionalness of the teachers, the bad conditions of the workers, the privatizations, and our educational system, in short, is evidently incapable of answering to the romances of the people. And so, at the beginning of this year, in September, we were engaged to change the coast of the Basque Country. And we started this very hard. We put aside our confort situation, because it would be much more convenient for us to sit still, drawn from our situation of confort, and put a concrete proposition on the table. We argued and pushed on the process of the education agreement. In this legislature where we formed a legend, 100 operators have passed and listened to the legislature. We have known many different opinions and ratings, and, perhaps, the most important thing in this legislature has been given a wide, public trial, which has first been the precedent of a law. We must confess to the education community that perhaps we do not need to explain this power from the first moment to the other light. It's true. And we must honestly confess the imperfections, and we must all commit to improvement. But it has been imeditian, this poncency has been ineditated in this parliament, and it may not be said that it can refer to another way of making parlamennianism. So, as opportunity, we positively appreciate the whole process we've committed in this power. And all these months, we've done an active rehearsal exercise. We drank from the old fountain, but drank new water; water that is ever new, from the old fountain, as Arz said in Joshah. And that's the effect of this education agreement we're going to make today. And I would remark that in eroscala we jump to-day: When all students finish their necessary school, B2 must be at least a grade, and today we are nearer the model of eucarating. In order to face segregation, we take precise measures today. And besides, we are engaged to a contract against the segregation of 2023. And besides, we take a step to overcome the private public dichotomy, where it will end with universal contingencies, we have determined very particular conditions, very concrete and rated, to receive public contributions, and we make a firm decantation for public schools, confessing the public school, by the default, strengthening, strengthening, and committing the power of our system. After all, we can say that we jump on this agreement today for Araba, Biscaia, and the Gipuian education transformation. It is true that the Basque Country is not a hundred per cent of the agreement we would like to collect. That's right. But we have known how to do generously, we have been informed that maxims have been abandoned, and we have obtained the best bargain we could get. And for us this is a transition, the beginning of a path, the beginning of a transition: a step along the way of an independent public education system. So we can say, happy not only today's important, but it's an historic day. The agreement which we have obtained between the four principal political powers of this legislature is an historic agreement. This agreement that determines the basic transformation of Euscala education is historical. And he may suppose, as I have said, to jump into our system. For months we have worked hard to make an active listening. Same and different, but with a different look. We leap into the euskaldunization, and today we are closer than yesterday to the linguistic immersion in Basque. We approach segregation in a nuanced manner. We plan to take a step to overcome the public-private dichotomy, and we make a clear decantation in favor of the Basque public school. We recognize that the Basque public school is a priority, we take steps to strengthen it and we commit ourselves to making it the centrepiece of the system. In short, we believe that we are making a leap towards the transformation of the education system of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa towards decentralization, the autonomy of the centers, and always putting the studentship as axis. It is true that it is not 100% the agreement that Euskal Herria Bildu would have liked, but we believe it is a good agreement. We have acted without maximalism, we have played generously, and we believe that towards the sovereign public education system that Euskal Herria Bildu wants today we take a historic step, because the four main forces of this Parliament are going to sign an agreement of bases for the transformation of our system. A basic agreement that we consider to be historic and that gives us a great deal of reason to be happy and happy. Now it's time for social agreement. If this deal's good for that, welcome. And all this is to pass through words. And who's the guarantee? That's what we're going to be for, we'll all be responsible for this deal, we'll all be responsible for it, but even the education community. This arrangement draws us a new path, and also determines a plan of action consisting of exactly 43 measures. And this, even in an imitative way, is going to mark education policy for 12 years following the Board of Education. This will be the one or the other direction that will take, and this is all in our power. The agreement has been arranged today. Educational law is not acquired. The responsibility and responsibility of all of us will be to obtain as much as possible in this little part of the Basque Country as possible the best law of education. And we are engaged in gathering the Basque People to-day that the trial of the law may be as responsible as possible for all the educational communities... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... and we are engaged in gathering the Basque People to-day that the trial of the law may be as much a creditor as possible, that all education communities may participate, and that there is a social consent, to make the result of that social consent, and to introduce it into that process of law. That's our commitment to the education community. This agreement, without doubt, opens a new way, opens a window, gives us a new illusion for work. Let's give the illusion and the agreement a chance. And how, as Pirrich and failure would end, education community, members of this legislature, feel, think, and act together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u6	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, I'll take off my kiss. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Good morning, everyone. And a special farewell to us at this time of day in the parliament is with us: the different representatives and operatings of education. You've been a big part of this process, and you've been very grateful to me for your involvement and commitment on behalf of my team. Today we announce a new route. Education is a great challenge to a country, and we start this course with a shared purpose. Let our students acquire a full general development in this new context that lives in Eukaca, because it is numerous in the social and cultural area, because it is complex, because this society is dynamic. The quality of education, the cohesion of society, the choice of equality. The situation of the present day requires us to penetrate into these matters. We stand in front of the great challenges. Challenge demographicsocial, technological digit or challenges on permanent development and environmental development. Without leaving anyone behind, cohesion, balance, and cooperation are essential elements. We are united to work with the object of success for all students. In the name of our party to add anything strange to the mind, already in the power and in the commission, and in other public expressions, we have expressed it in our favour. First, because it comes from the hand of a large agreement, a well-considered and cultivated agreement, more protected than 81% of this chamber, and this is important. Because the wide agreement brings a wide view and puts us in front of a new stage. This is an extraordinary moment since education is an extraordinary aspect for a country. We are currently defining Euskadi's future through education. It is the best investment we can make, because with it we will be generating a more prepared, more trained and more competitive future society when it comes to developing its future. Education is one of the most important assets for social and economic growth, and with the passage we take today we ratify it. We had the opportunity to improve among all our education systems, and we have achieved that. Lortu dugu. Eta lortzen jarraituko dugu, bidea Egypt jarraituko dugu. Thanks again to those who made it possible. And what is the purpose of this agreement? It's a high-school education system. Excellentness is a modern goal, incoherent, balanced, hecter, free, eloquent... This glance will give stability to the future education law, which will enable it to subsist in time. On the other hand, we'll help them make the future laws get their goals better. With the intention of answering the students, teachers, families, and, after all, the needs of our society as well as possible. Euscala has started the agreement of the grounds for the transformation of education, which builds the foundations of preparation for future persons. In this document which we vote today, we receive specific projects and actions, the members who have spoken before me have said that in the next decades will improve and modify the eucalyptic education system. We're building Euscalal educational system. When we acquire an important instrument for this purpose, we have managed to define the principle of the Euscal Public Educational Service, the space to construct our own system, which is possible to unite extreme attitudes. We confess to the fundamental nature of public school, our fundamental refercial, but also to the proprieties of the bond under the treaty. They will depend on the same principle, the preparation of public service. And who is this preparation for? Who is the receiver of this preparation? Student. We want a system with a student on a pivotal axis, and the professors will certainly be indispensable to encourage him, and the schools. Autonomy schools, high school. In this process of empowerment, the leadership of the leadership of the centres, the cloisters, the families and the whole educational community acquire a significant role. And through that empowerment and autonomy... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... the leadership of the management of the centers, the cloisters, the families, the whole educational community. And, through this empowerment and autonomy, each school will develop its educational project and, within its educational project, its linguistic project, in response to its sociolinguistic ecosystem, euskara ardaz izanik, eta honen baitan hizkuntza proyektuei proyektu eleanitzak garatzeko garrantzia emonaz. A new frame, un nuevo marco. There are also certain actions to resist Segregation. Based on the social equality of education which will prepare the student from the standards of equality, so that his pupils may be educated not only in associations, but also in worth, and the students in the centre, and secure the rights of all. And we'll say this career will be a companion to the Board of Education. If we were in the sea, we'd say that the leader of the Guildian fleet and his team were the guardians of the tractor. We're in good hands, we're in this very hand. This has been a very promising process, and it will continue to be the one that doesn't end with the vote today. This has only been the first stop, and I hope to follow from the hands of honesty, respect, readiness, and conversation with all the agencies that form the community of education, and also with the political teams. And I want to take advantage of the moment when I come here to thank you, to give you a chance: In Jotun, Jotun, Miren, Isa, Alamaz, Gorka, thank you all most earnestly. And thank you for the whole camera. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. After that, we'll go on to the opposite round. Missta-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Me, with your permission, too. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. For decades we have witnessed the shameful use of education by the ruling political class. In 40 years, Spain has passed eight different educational laws, and on too many occasions the new standard has arrived even before the previous one was fully implemented. They didn't care about anything. The alternation of acronyms in power has gone throughout democracy along with a soup of letters: LOECE, LODE, LOGSE... So even LOMLOE or Celaá law. Education has been the instrument used by political parties to differentiate itself from their rival, and it is still so today. In the Basque Country, education has also been instrumentalized and used to shape the future electorate from the earliest childhood, to indoctrinate from the classrooms. Faced with this manifest inability of the political class to reach a pact for education in which not the partisan interests but the student take precedence, the experts warn of its consequences - loss of the quality of teaching and school failure - but they do not care at all, for you the important thing is not the student and his excellence but the nationalist cause. And at the center of the dispute always the same: the subject of religion, the concerted centers, the percentage of subjects taught in the co-official languages. With this report, which is being brought to the Basque Parliament today, one more step is being taken. Far from the consensus that the signatories demonstrate, this document has been forged through the back door, with deliberate maneuvers to leave out non-nationalist parties like Vox. This document is the result of the most absolute and delectable marketing between the ultra-left abertzale and communists and parties that support the Basque Government. No wonder of the first, but surprise, instead, of those who now from Lakua want to end the concerted education after years and years of running for his side. Maybe Bildu has had more strength than you in this negotiation? In the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country we have 49% consultation in education, because of the good reception that concerted education has among Basque families. With the new education law, in very few years, there will be only public schools in the Basque Country. That's what they want, surprisingly also the PNV, when so far it has supported the concerted school. What dark motive now leads you to turn your back on these educational centers? Without forgetting also the PES, it would be possible in this case to remember and remember that in 1985 his party approved the educational concerts, why are they now opposed to them? Certainly there is no hiding the objective of the future education law to publish all educational institutions - the great so much that has been marked Podemos in the negotiation - nor is there any hiding the objective of walking in the euskaldunization of the student with the euskera as a vehicle language. The stake for a secular school and a covert attack on private concerted education, in so far as a programme contract is to be established whose terms are not specified in the report, but which will be insurmountable for the concerted, because it will be an attack on that autonomy and ideal. Say it so clearly. And aside from ignoring that both Spanish and Basque are the two official languages of the Basque Country, unfortunately, today we are going to approve the basis of a future law that recognizes the primacy of Basque as the axis of the Basque system of education that seeks to end de facto the system of the three linguistic models, limiting it to a single model: the D. And it does so also, without speaking clearly: the text avoids talking about linguistic models, it is based on a broad framework in which the educational centers will have autonomy to design their linguistic projects. The trick? Linguistic objectives must be achieved and, at the end of the ESO, pupils must have a B2 level, at least in the two co-official languages, as well as at least a B1 level in English, without taking into account the socio-linguistic environment of pupils. And let us not forget the local school councils that have introduced in this educational project, those in which the left abertzale will have the hand to do and undo at his will, decide where to go... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... the local school councils that have introduced into this educational project, those in which the left abertzale will have the hand to do and undo at his will, decide where the students are enrolled and how, when and what they learn. Here, too, the objectives of Bildu and PNV converge; the common goals that these two parties have in education are evident when they speak of decentralization, autonomy of centers, community and municipality involvement. Come on, freeway so that each municipality can impose the partisan ideology of the political group that governs in them in the educational system of its students. And this is what you call freedom? Because the real definition of this is indoctrination in all its aspects. In Vox we are in the antipodes of this law. In fact, not one of our contributions has been taken into account. Vox bets on free, free education and that it seeks the excellence of all students. And in that regard, we present our contributions. The mother tongue, the language of each student, must be the backbone of the teaching to be received. Mastering the language in which knowledge is acquired and skills developed is key to ensuring a good understanding of the subjects taught and, consequently, school success. Do you remember Ugaitz, the Basque boy who was suspended in a school... At a Vizcay school? All the subjects were taught in Basque and the teachers also condemned him to school failure. His native language is Spanish, and receiving all classes in Basque was the reason for his poor academic results. A file that today is like that of the rest of the students enrolled in other schools. The difference is that his parents had to take him to a school outside the Basque Country, where they did not give him that chance. That's discrimination with capitals. Achieving excellence must be the main objective of the future Education Act. Curriculums focused on students acquiring the best skills, skills and skills must be developed, only in this way will we be able to make education an engine of personal development and to train excellent professionals. This will only be achieved with an education focused on the student's excellence. But the future law must also guarantee the right of parents to choose freely the school where they want to educate their children. Parents are the only legitimate ones to decide how to educate them, and therefore enroll them in school that best suits their interests, values and/or circumstances. And yes we share, yes we share with you that education must be free for all students, but without trap, whether the center belongs to the concerted network or to the public network. It is the responsibility of the Basque Government to ensure that all pupils, regardless of the centre in which they choose to study, will be able to enjoy the same conditions of freeness, respecting the autonomy of the centres to choose their idea and educational project. A freedom that must be inextricably linked to the equal opportunities of all students regardless of where they live. It is therefore necessary to establish curricular contents common to all territories and to move towards a desirable national law on education. For Vox, it is an essential goal to ensure that no child is left behind and to ensure that all children are educated on an equal footing. Hence, the future law must ensure the total gratuity of all stages of education; not only the compulsory, but also from zero to three years, a measure that will also facilitate the reconciliation of families. Children with special needs or special educational needs should also be covered by the future Education Act. These pupils must enjoy the same rights and opportunities as the rest of the Basque pupils. Ugaitz didn't have them, they sent him homework for underage children instead of supporting him in Spanish. Hence, the future law should include and equate special education in the network of Basque schools. Or don't these kids deserve equal treatment? Don't they deserve to be taken into account in this educational agreement? This law that they want to impose on us, far from looking at the mistakes made during 40 years of linguistic imposition, what they do is to re-incide these mistakes, and also on a larger scale, an immersion into the Catalan that will bring nothing good to our students in the future. An educational agreement that had already already agreed PNV and Bildu long before the presentation began. And on the day of their vote they staged a media circus of rushes and races, when in reality it was all a paripé facing the gallery. They just had to content Podemos and PES with crumbs to get them into the game. Something they got with a lot of skill. As is customary in the cordon parties in this House, none of our contributions has been taken into account. We're not surprised. But that's not why we're giving up. We will continue to defend the freedom of choice of parents of the educational model they want for their children, whether religious or secular, whether in Basque or Spanish, whether in public, private or concerted, because no one can give us that right and that freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u10	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari. Counselors. Good morning. Well, out of institutional loyalty, I must start this debate by denouncing something I have already said on more than one occasion, the lack of forms that have been committed during the adoption of this report. On Friday, 18 March, there was a repeated and unacceptable lack of respect for my group and a breakdown of the most elementary forms of parliamentary courtesy, because you had to adopt this report in haste, by the hair and having to resort to euphemisms, empty sentences and generalities, because this report is actually the result of an exercise of unstable balance that does not bear the concreteness or pragmatism that the new law must necessarily have. So I am afraid that we are only facing an interim solution to the issue, however, most important of the legislature, with the aim, in the end, of selling to society an agreement at whatever price. And I must continue to say that in the face of this country agreement that the signatory groups have wanted to sell to the opinion... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... an agreement at whatever price it is. And I must continue to say that in the face of this country agreement, which the signatory groups have wanted to sell to public opinion, this report is only an agreement of the nationalist groups and pseudonationalist groups, which leaves out the entire non-nationalist Basque population. And regardless of whether that part of the Basque population is large, small, majority or minority, it is also part of the country, and leaving it out, disregarding its opinion, not marrying it, shows a major democratic deficit. After all, the greatness of a democracy is demonstrated in respect for minorities, and history is plagued by great mistakes caused by the imposition of majorities. This agreement can therefore have the qualitative, quantitative and pardon support of 80% of the Members of this House, but it is qualitatively partial and incomplete and shows that it is not the result of consensus, but rather the imposition of part of the parliamentary arc on the other. And that is the case, irremediably, because in this House two very different models of education are basically supported, and they have been clearly seen in the interventions that have taken place before, that of Bildu and his partners, and ours. And it's important that we put white on black the differences between the two. We advocate an education that is not at the service of any political project, whose objective is to form free and responsible citizens, while Bildu defends, without concealing it, an education at the service of his national construction project, and whose objective is to form citizens committed to his political project. We advocate a non-indoctrination education, aimed at opening minds, a developer of critical meaning and that considers human differences a wealth, while Bildu bets on an indoctrination education, generating closed minds, localists and exclusions, that consider non-Euskaldunes citizens of second. We believe in education based on the values of individual freedom, liberal democracy, equality, pluralism and rejection of any kind of violence, while Bildu and his partners believe in education based on the values of the (?) more rancid Marxism, the exclusion of those who think differently, and the non-condemnation of violence. Bildu defends the imposition of Basque; that is, he denies the possibility that any Basque citizen can freely decide in which of the two official languages he or she educates his or her children. And we defend Basque, but we want there to be freedom to educate children in either of the two official languages on equal terms. We've said it many times. Imposing euskera is the worst thing you can do to euskera. But we're looking at the current results. After the last few decades, the offer to study in Spanish has been slowly but relentlessly eliminated, today we have a lesser use of euskera than before. And it is that languages cannot be banned, nor should they be imposed. Bildu and his partners do not like concerted education, although much of it is made up of Ikastolas euskaldunes, and they want a public education only, so that it can be controlled politically. And the agreement signed implies the progressive reduction of the concerted education in the medium and long term. Faced with this, we defend the public school, but also the concerted school, because it means that any family can quietly choose the model in which to educate their children, without political interference of any kind. And because reducing or constraining the concerted school means de facto that only the richest can have the freedom to choose the educational centre for their children by going to private education, and implies that the poorest have their options reduced to a politically intervened model. And in the face of all the models of education, it must be clear that the Basque Government has opted for the Bildu model, which it has chosen as its partner in this matter. Partly because he agrees with some of the objectives of his educational project. They have said it many times: without education there is no Basque, and without Basque there is no country. These are phrases that have been heard in this House. Choosing this option is your responsibility. It is your responsibility today, and it will also be in the face of history. Responsibility that cannot be covered by any marketing exercise of those who have us used to. The report that will be adopted today, without our complicity, of course, lacks a diagnosis of Basque education. I don't know if this seems normal to you, but it really means you don't want to accept the reality we're starting from, because it doesn't matter. However, the diagnosis we have above the table, which has put it above the table ISEI-IVEI, the Basque Government, shows that the results of the students, the academic results, are not good, and are in decline, despite being the autonomous community that spends the most money per student. That we have an unacceptable level of segregation, and that despite being in a regime of practice total imposition of euskera, the students end up not knowing how to speak euskera. Not a word in the report that will be adopted today on this data. Not a word that our students get bad results in mathematics, language, science and Basque. The report only looks at the indicators that are of interest, those that come out pretty, to the point that an external observer might think that in Basque education everything works well or very well, anything but learning mathematics, science, language or Basque, everything less important. Faced with this situation, we think that we should have started by agreeing on a common, objective, complete and contrasted diagnosis, rather than starting by putting each other's recipes on the table, and starting to exchange concessions, as if it were a card game, because that way of working can not come out a good law of education that really has a vocation to last. But in last Friday's debate, the lehendakari repeated several times that the door remains open, and that his will is to integrate the proposals of all. Perhaps it was just a way to look good, after having clearly bet on Bildu's thesis, but time will tell us to what extent that will is firm or not. But, however, we also pick up the glove... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... by the theses of Bildu, but time will tell us to what extent that will is firm or not. But, nevertheless, we also pick up the glove and put our proposals on the table. First, because it is our obligation, representing a part of Basque citizenship as important as the rest. And second, because even though EH Bildu gets very nervous, maybe some of these ideas go to the new law. Our proposals are not maximalistic, but we simply raise ideas of common sense, rational, sensible, democratic minimums. And that is why we believe that the new law should incorporate the following 14 elements. One. The consideration, as is obvious, of both Spanish and Basque, as official languages, on equal terms. That was the sensible formula used in the transition to ensure social peace on the subject of languages, and it should continue to be a reference for the future if we are to maintain it. Two. The freedom of citizens to choose the language they wish to use and in which they wish to learn. First, because it is a right, a guarantee of integration; and second, because it violates it causes serious problems, such as those we are seeing in the current results of Basque education. Three. The English bet as a foreign language. Because, whether we like it or not, English is already the free language of a globalized world, which will be and which our students will have to develop. Four. Whatever the language model of each centre, at least 25% of teaching hours must be taught in each of these three languages. We already have a final judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, and everything seems to indicate that it will be the way the courts will follow to prevent the violation of the rights of students and families. At least 25% in each language is a solution that would allow the most Basque centres to deliver up to 50% of the subjects in Basque and would ensure effective trilingualism. Five. The establishment of a system of objective and public academic performance indicators per centre, including measures of knowledge correction for excellent schools and pupils. Because we need to focus on results, and to do so, we need to start with a system of objective indicators that will allow the administration, but also the families, to know the level of quality of each centre. It would therefore entail an incentive to improve the quality of the centres. Six. A system of concerts devoid of ideological requirements, in which the objective is precisely to enhance diversity and increase options for families, and which involves wealth and plurality rather than politically controlled uniformity. Seven, the prohibition in all public and concerted centers of any kind of indoctrination message or driving political orientation of any kind, far from the reality in which we live today. Eight. Unrestricted freedom for parents to choose the educational centre for their children. Precisely so that it is not only the richest ones who can truly choose educational centres by going to purely private education. Nine. Sufficient funding for public and concerted schools on equal terms. The cost of a school space is the same as for one type of centre and another. And if the calculations are done right, we shouldn't have a precarious public school and an underfunded concerted school as we have today. Ten. A system of access to the teaching career based on a merit contest and a minimum period of practice of two years in both public and concerted schools. The teaching work must be prestigious, and this begins because the best are dedicated to it, which implies a good process of selection and training. Eleven. The teacher in the exercise of his or her educational, managerial or guidance duties assigned to him or her shall have the status of public authority and shall therefore have the presumption of veracity in his or her reports and statements. We cannot continue to hold the teachers at the foot of the horses, suffering all kinds of contempt and attacks from some students and some families. Sweet. Free child education from 0 to 6 years of age. It's something we've been defending here for a long time, and we're glad to see that they've introduced it into the agreement, although earlier it seemed that this was impossible and that everything was inconvenient, we'll really see what it translates into in the law. Pass. The possibility for each centre to decide whether to make a departure day or continue. Another flag that we have been flying for a long time, because the mandatory dining rooms do not seem reasonable or practical to us. And finally, fourteen, the implementation of the school nurse. A proposal that we have also defended in this rostrum repeatedly and that we think would be a great improvement for our schools. Here are our proposals. They're not partyists. We believe that they are good for Basque education: reasonable and sensible. And we are willing to talk about them as much as is necessary and to deepen and seek creative solutions. But it's now that you're going to see if the lehendakari's invitation was sincere or just a way to look good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u12	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos-Nozzer has the word. Mrs. Hatage, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Yes, I'd like you all to thank me for the agreement, all of you who made it possible. Different parties, of course. I said we weren't one on the first draft. The difference between the first draft and the last document. And that was possible because the rest of the political parties opened their eyes. So thank you all. Thank you for the educational operators. They're the ones who put the light on, they've put the light on reality. And that's because it's gonna help us make power, and push everything else into that change or evolution development. I'd like to thank the chief physician as well. Because he made it easier for her to make this pact. Dena her, esan bezala, lehen etorkizunari begira jarri behar gara gaur. It's the future now that we have to take into account, and I'd like to be able to reproduce... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...andorkizunari begira jarri behar gara gaur. It is the future now that we have to take into account, and I would like to be able to reproduce these thanks also in the future in the hope that each of the actors I have mentioned, the rest of the political parties, will be able to abandon their own interests in pursuit of the general interest. Also of the Council, which is capable and responsible to carry out, without any other pressure, the agreements to which we have reached. Always in the light of social movements and the educational community, with the light placed on the real problems of the educational system. And, ultimately, always thinking of strengthening - as I said, and this has been ours and will be our horizon - strengthening the Basque public school. Let us not lose sight of the fact that the Basque public school of public ownership is the school that trains our students. It's the school that leaves no one behind, no one out, Mr. Gil. The public school is the one that doesn't indoctrinate. And the public school is also the one that Euskalduniza, and it is also the one that teaches Spanish to children, like my children, for example, who went to school without having any idea of Spanish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u15	Thank you, ma'am. I'm not going to enter on some subjects that have been discussed here today, because I don't think it's the day of our day's provocations to enter. So I'm not going to go in there. But I do believe that today's agreement, which we signed today, is a very large, overwhelming, majority agreement, I would say, of this House, is an important qualitative leap. And that is thanks to the effort made by the different parliamentary groups, also at the hand of the Education Council. And I think it has been a sincere job, far, of course, from any ideological tint and in which we have all sought to get closer; and we could all, the signatory groups, say, in any case, that none is likely to be 100% satisfied, because everyone has their own model, but we have done an exercise of rapprochement and, above all, an exercise of realism And to you, of course, what I see is very far from reality, not only in the educational sphere, but on so many issues that I think we need to address. Look, I think this educational pact has a lot of virtues, a lot of virtues. It guarantees equality, fights against segregation, bets on inclusion, is plural and respectful with which it thinks differently. It is open because it favors different models, because it allows to adapt education according to the sociolinguistic reality of each municipality, power to the public, but, however, also respects the concerted one. And, in addition, it requires certain questions according to the public money it receives. Introduce trilingualism. Eye, but it also gives our language a leading role, with which I sometimes feel that you have certain quarrels that I do not understand very well. Of course, it gives prominence to the public, because that is what ensures that any citizen can have access to quality education. You were talking about creating second-rate citizens. Do you know what creates second-rate citizens? Wage moderation, cuts, private school bets and the fact that there are students in communities that you govern that don't even have a toilet paper in the toilets of public schools. And that has been told to me by a person whose daughter goes to a public school in an autonomous community that you govern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u16	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u17	Thank you, Chief. Mr. Gil, says my general coordinator, Arnaldo Otegi, that sometimes you win and sometimes you learn; so learn. I said how beautiful it's gonna be at this congress where we agreed to get the education agreement. And I must confess, it was not so beautiful as I thought it was. And I must admit that we've done a hard work, that we've sweated ours and we've sweated both, and that if they'd taught me it's personal, I've noticed that this policy we're doing all this has also a personal influence on it. But in cold water, warm water. And that's why I want to take advantage of this compliment to thank you. First of all, thank you for the whole education community. Because the seeds that have been sown in years, and the promise given, are the future life of our education system. And we'll still be working with you guys. And let us hope that all your work, even in this future law, should produce fruit from all this work of art. I'd like to thank PSE, too. In the last minute, even at the last moment, there is an effort to get a deal and get an agreement. I'd like to thank Podemos-IU, Isari, Mireni, for believing in the agreement, for having had the choice to make a journey together, and wishing to understand each other. We must understand each other for the public Basque school, and our hand is extended for the public Basque school to do it together. I'll bring you back to me in the long night of 18, and thank you for doing all this long, comfortable, easy, beautiful process. And I want to thank the chief physician for all his honesty, even your team. I hope you do, I hope, and I believe you will, that all this process of the law, this whole case of ponciency, is a part and a good one. And I want to thank him... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] I'm convinced you'll do this, this whole process of the law, this whole process of crime, that you're a member of the other party and an honest man. And I want to thank the Basque People for protecting Meals and Peio. And all our comrades. After all, the independent public education system of the Basque Country for building day by day, school by day, and neighborhood. And in conclusion, with your permission, I would like to mention, that the government, the opposition, the government, the opposition, and another way of proceeding beyond the ancient formulas is clearly possible in all this process. We're ready to collect left independence and the Basque People, and that's why now social agreement is held. Now it's the law of Arba, Biscay, and Gipuian education. It's now, in Navarre, an education agreement. And now, it's time to accumulate forces for the eucalyptic and eucatic teaching in the North Basque Country. Josephine was the tailor of the Museum. Of the different Mars of Joseph, the soothsayer? It was... And today, José Mari Fuzzum, he'd be very happy with this deal we've made. His soul has not ceased, And let it rest where He is quiet, Because His soul has not ceased. And so, in honor of Joxema, I want to say that for what the Basque People need, we must push, push, force Euscalian education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u18	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Again, Mr. Arrese has touched me. It's been a very rich process in every area, both professional and personal. And that's gratitude. But I'd like to tell Mr. Gil that we know this deal isn't like you. But this cannot give way to question the legality of the agreement. And this is very serious. The regulations of the legislative are derived from the rules of legislation, which we have done every moment. What is established by the rule, we have fulfilled every moment in the power. So perfectly legitimate. March 18 delayed a lot. But he was delayed by the intention of finding a large agreement. No one doubts that the intention was noble. Besides, Mr. Gil, you know there has been an opportunity for a still wider agreement. But you, or your own team, would prefer to see whose signature was in the document. We found it, but you didn't want to protect it because the signature of other groups was there. So, this stretch in the president's hand? Good boy. Was it a good attitude to Popular-Ciudadnos? No, it wasn't. And also today, this agreement that we assert at the meeting has been intended to be obscure. So act honestly and act as if it were a beggar. I'll say again to finish it: This is a well-considered and well-made deal. So today is the day to rejoice. Today, the agreement for the transformation of eupscal education is now begun. It's a great day. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Duplika txandan, Mistoa-Vox, Martinez andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u21	Thank you, Madam President. It is not to challenge a law that seeks to build a country through indoctrination in the classroom; it is to defend the freedom of education of Basque families to choose how they want to educate their children. Their obsessive nationalist aspirations have led them to want to impose euskera in all schools, against all the reports and studies that show that Basque students have achieved the worst results in the last ten years. Especially bloody is the decline in the level of euskera, as only 1.1% has improved the level of this language at the end of the first cycle of ESO. All this despite the continuous imposition that you do of this language. It is therefore evident that school failure has led to years and years of education in the language that is not the mother tongue of our children and that puts them at a disadvantage compared to Spanish pupils. And, therefore, despite the fact that the Basque Country is the community besides that more money spends for students in public education. We're the ones who spend the most on public education from all over Spain. And yet, the results are not the best. This should be considered for the future education law. The freedom of Basque families has been pursued for years in order to be able to choose how to educate their children. This new document is the certification of this, and not only by the imposition of the euskera as a axis, the progressive nationalist alliance abertzale has proposed to end the concerted and private schools, with the option of receiving religious teachings, with the aspiration to provide curricula aimed at educational excellence. In Vox we know the consequence of tailoring the future education law. Families will not be able to choose the centre in which to enrol their children or to prevent them from imparting ideological content to them. This new text aims to put an end to private and concerted schools, as we know them, Mr Andueza. Why? Because in order to be eligible for funding, they will have to give up their essence, their plans and programmes. All this with the aim of gradually ending with everything that is not public and Basque. This report turns its back on the reality of the Basque Country, a reality that throws data... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... the purpose of gradually ending with anything that is not public and Basque. This report turns its back on the reality of the Basque Country, a reality that casts with objective and measurable data, that half of Basque families choose concerted centers to educate their children. This should be more than sufficient evidence to respect the ideas and educational projects of the concerted school, without precluding the granting of economic aid to the fulfilment of ideological or organizational criteria. Unfortunately, it's not going to be like that. With this agreement has ended with the universal concertation in education, this was said by the Bildu group after the signing. As a chronicle of an announced death, this document paves the way for a gradual end to all education that is not public, secular and Basque. An attack on education in freedom and quality. This document has been prepared by turning its back on all the evaluation reports of Basque schoolchildren, all the experts. It is concerned with the freedom of choice, as I say, of 49% of the families in the Basque Country, those who are currently sending their children to concerted centres, and it violates the right to religious freedom of about half a million Catholics we have in the Autonomous Community. Attention to thousands and thousands of Basques that we have Spanish as our mother tongue. In Vox we cannot support this document that will not be used to train excellent students. It is a totally ideological text, partyist in the service of political interests, which is not what we want. We believe that we need an education, as I say, in which all families can choose how they want to educate their children. In addition to this future Law of Education, depends the next generation of Basques, and the development and growth of those who will take the generational relief, so, from Vox we tell them that we will not sign their pamphlet to build more country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u22	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u23	Thank you, Madam President. With the proof that the agreement reached today is an interim and ephemeral agreement, you see that each one congratulates himself on different things, to the extent that it seems that we have reached an agreement, but four different things. Some congratulate themselves because there is indeed a bet decided by the euskera, investment and vehicleization; and others say that it has been bet on trilingualism. They seem to be different agreements. Some say they are pleased because there has been a public school bet, and others because they have managed to protect concerted education. Anyway... It's actually a temporary and ephemeral agreement, isn't it? Mr Arrese, tell your general coordinator that I am very sorry, but I do not accept any advice from you. And I do have a few to give him, huh? If you ever get excited. And Mrs Leixuri, that the goal was noble on the day of the presentation I do not doubt, but that does not justify breaking the most elementary rules of parliamentary courtesy. I mean, I'm not saying there hasn't been... That the goal was noble, but look, we haven't supported this agreement basically because of the difference in models. I think you were able to hear it clearly a while ago. I mean, it's a matter of content clearly, and that's your responsibility. You've been betting on a specific model, and that's what you have to refer to. But... Let's see, really the point where we're not fooled is that we're not finished with anything. The law is to be done. And now is the moment of truth. You'll see what you're doing. Whether a law without real consensus that excludes part of Basque society, which also exists, or an agreed and truly consensual law. You will have to choose who you content, but above all you will have to choose which model of society you want for the future: a society that speaks Basque, if we do, even if we don't know mathematics; or a society with high levels of academic results regardless of the language chosen for training. The responsibility for this election is yours. In the meantime, it must be made clear that this report that is being voted on today is not our report. None of our good proposals have been taken into account, just as we take the surprise today and in the votes we are supported by some. And therefore, it is not a country agreement. That is why we will vote against it with the clear conscience that we do not feel complicit either in this way of doing politics or in this model of sectarian, retrograde, closed and exclusive education that it contains. From here, our hand is stretched out, as it has been so far. We continue to make proposals, we are willing to talk, to collaborate, to consensus and to negotiate, as we have been from the beginning, because we think it is necessary for a cause that is worth it: a law of education for the next generation. A better education law than we have today, an education law that can really be said to have been built by consensus, that is the result of a real country agreement, that does not exclude anyone and that is recognized by all as the education law that Euskadi needs to build a society for the future and for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u24	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The discussion is over and we'll have a vote. The technical corrections have been divided, and if there is no opposition, I grant them accepted. They're going to vote together with the Mistto-Vox team's reserved contributions. You can vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u25	Let's see, yes, thank you, President. No, we ask for a separate vote: the number one, the number two, the number three, the number four and the number seven, those can go together. And then, number five on the other hand, and number six on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u26	And the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u27	It's who they are. Repeat.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u28	One, two, three, four... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... on the other hand, and number six on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u29	And the rest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u30	It's who they are. I repeat...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u31	Okay. One, two, three, four, seven, five, and six separate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u32	That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u33	- Valerie.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u34	Five on one side, and six on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u35	Three votes, yes. Well, we vote for one, two, three, four, seven vote for the Vox Misto. You can vote. [[Pause]] Well, next time, he won't. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the contrary, 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u36	They weren't allowed. Let's try it for the next vote. After that, we'll vote for the 5th. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 1, 72; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u37	And we'll also count Pastor's vote as opposed. Next, we vote for the 6th. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 1, 66. Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u38	Plus Pastor vote. Next, we'll vote for the contributions reserved by the popular-Ciudados. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the contrary, 66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u39	Plus Pastor vote, so it's not allowed. He's going to vote for the power report. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters of 66; the contrary, 7. Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u40	Plus Pastor vote, so the power report is accepted. [[Applause]] Thank you. Second point on the subject list: "Mation, introduced by Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors, in the case of the 14/2021 Act of July, the development of the process of stabilization in Osa. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u41	Good morning, everyone. And for starters, I want to welcome the representatives of the Oscar unions. Welcome to your home. And besides welcome, thank you so much for all the struggle you're doing for years, that the workers who care for the health of the world may have suitable conditions of work. I know that at these times discussions, conflicts, confessions of ideas are misinterpreted, or at least this mark is intended to be set upon us from the point of view of neoliberalism. But without conflict, without confuting the ideas, it is very difficult to make a road to the agreement without having revealed the disagreement. It's important to identify, to surface dissection... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... it is very difficult to make the way to the agreement without having revealed the discords. It's important to identify, to surface, where the disagreements are, where the knots are, otherwise there's no way to make it, it's impossible to make the way to the agreements. Yeah? It's impossible to get the manufacturer's views and contributions. So thank you so much for the trouble you've been in to identify yourself for all your work, and also for the proposals you're making to solve those problems. Without them, it would be impossible for Osaval to be what is now. Today, on the international health Day, it's better to discuss the stability of the Osaile planet that seeks to improve the conditions of our health. Because the patient wants to achieve the stability of his partnership, the same professional health as his whole life, that is to know that when they go home they will find a doctor, a nurse, a steward, everything will be professional and there will be always there. When the patient goes home to know who will find him and trust him, he who is there knows his story. Because it's just because you want to succeed in stabilizing Hosa's health housing projects so that you can develop health in order to develop communal attention, collectively −dini, pluripatologicals, young people on a network, to keep themselves and others better guarded by form, by way of prevention, not simply by existence. It's because you're trying to get the workers to do the work right, to arrange the schedules better, to put the workers out there and don't know what they're supposed to do, to build a decent life project. In the stability of the orchidal plan, what you want to achieve is to improve the quality of the public health system of all of us. If you would ask the people: What do you want? Or today, take a turn, a ver, what would you like to offer public health systems? The people would probably reply that many of us here are − and many of us are here, and we want− to cut down the waits, each time we go to the same doctor's health house, to keep an eye on him. The stability of the planet is indispensable for all this. And unfortunately, for years, we've been going the opposite direction to Osar. Instead of setting up policies for the stability of the planet, we're with the nicest ones that increase the provisionality for many years. We're talking about membership, but in public health system as well as health department. What I want to remember is that epidemicism, that the Public Health Department is under the Medical Department, and that its stability is essential too. And what we see is, for example, as it has been done in a member and beggarly manner with a law, the state has only been made worse. The possibility in Osakidetza moves around 50% and in March, summer and December around 58%. That 8% fluctuating is for replacements. And that would be the normal percentage of 8% and not 50%. And this is not due to the pandemic, it's not a consequence of the pandemic. This has been a normality for years, for many years, that has accentuated this last decade. And besides, we have different templates in Osakidetza. And the government is trying to confuse with the names of these templates to appear that the eventuality in Osakidetza is not what the social side says or to hide the precariousness that exists in Osakidetza. On the one hand, we have the structural staff, that is, those jobs that have code and that is approved on the board of directors of Osakidetza, which is 27,600. And, on the other hand, we have the so-called functional template, which is composed by the people who are working daily in Osakidetza, who, depending on the month, are changing according to the information sent to us by the Department of Health. For example, November 2021, we had 38,715 payrolls, but 36,047 people working in Osakidetza; December 2021, 40,142 payrolls and 37,901 people working; January 2022, 38,684 people working in Osakidetza. They are full days, without counting the departures, etc. For you to have an idea... For you to get an idea of the fork that goes from the template that has code, which is 27,600, to the actual template, which is about 38,000, the difference, as you see, is 11,000 jobs. But within that 27600 structural staff that has codes, the staff that is fixed at those posts does not reach 20,000, and of those 27600 are occupied only 23,800. Therefore, when the Government calculates the eventuality, it is usually limited to the eventuality of the structural and not of the total. Well, the story is that there are thousands and thousands and thousands of squares, and not tens, that are uncoded, that there are thousands of workers who through precarious contracts are performing functions from different squares at the same time. And the first thing that should be done is, together with the working party, identify those places, do a study of the workloads by OSI, pop up the necessary codes and agree at the sectoral table the places that we would need with code at least five years from now, that is, what... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... At the Sectoral Bureau the places we would need with code at least five years from now, that is, what we need is to plan, to plan as a team, taking into account, of course, all the retirements that are being given and that are going to happen in the coming years. That is, study, plan and negotiate. And although we are late, the Government should be fully involved in this, as the deadlines are on us with the opportunity that Madrid has opened for us. Sad of Madrileko Legearen markoan baitan aritu behar behar berazia, age sad Madrileno zain egon behar berazia egonkortze prozesua ahal aiziko. Eta has gehiago, orine art ezer gutxi egin denean behin-behinekotasunari aurre egiteko Osasun Sailaren aldetik. Egia da, egia da Osasun Sailak lan eskaintza publikoak egin dituela, bainsa lan-eskaintza publiko horiek ez diote aurre egiten dugun behin-behinekotasunari. Ez will say nahikoak. Ateratzen dituen plazetatik gehienak estrukturala template daden interim begirakoak dira, tenporal bath of begirako neurririk, ba, orine art only ez dugu ikusi. Besides, the year after 2012-2016 of the legislature is over, the same position is announced in the Government. The jobs announced in 2022 are accepted in the 2012-2016 legislature, and they are foretold. In 2022, the OPE will be 2018-2010 When I came to this house, I didn't understand how in 2018 the OPEs were made and announced, but I realized it was normal in this house. The OPEs are all right, but we need well-made and unfailing OPEs. What we need is really the measurements, the strategies, the policies to increase the planatilla. We need to restrict the difference between the planetual and function, for which we need to change the standard of prevention. The OPE model should change. It has a lot of work to do. But besides all this, OPE has to change his measures to transfer the changes of space and so on, because with the rhythms that have been made today, because it's always late, the workers are damaged, and they have to be introduced in the end, since they are already engaged in the past two years, they must be introduced to other offers, which should not now happen with these processs of stability and OPE, because the workers have suffered enough for these past two years. The point is, now, July in the frame of law 14/2021 in our proposition is a mistake in the isolation of the law, so we've made a mistake and I'd like to apologize for that, even if I told you about the donor. In this law it is possible to develop process of stability, but it must be done within a certain period of time, and to begin with, the first call must be done before June. So the government should be prepared for this at the moment, that it should be homeworks, that it should be doing the work of the house we were talking about, but we don't see it doing it. The medical department told us that they were actions and not words, but we've never seen any action before. The government may be talking, but it's a one-sided talk, and we haven't seen any interviews and any re-establishments. Moreover, what we have seen is, that the agreement signed is not the one that was executed, what agreements are not fulfilled, and that does not help. The health department also told us that they'd get 2,800 square, but only with that number, the planet is answered to the market, and not properly, does not respond to the planet as a whole. And it's not what we need to respond to the provisionalness of Osapartics, and it's not... We won't get to 8 percent with that. It would only be a make-up in an esthetic thing. It's true that it's better than anything, but we think it's the time to play bravely. That the number of squares should be agreed to the delegation of the workers, that it would be necessary to perform a serious examination by integrated sanitary institutions. We think the soil should be at least 5,000 jobs, but we're not supposed to be the kind of jobs we're supposed to make, we think the health department should deal with the workers' representatives and sign up on the Sacred Table. And what's not possible has happened, as it's been a long time since, to take a number of squares to the Holy Table of Osaparters, to inform them, and to give them no more. This cannot be; therefore it is the time to pass from words to actions, and it is not sufficient to say that actions are important. It's not enough to give headlines, we need a good management under the headlines, we need a good management, and in that sense the department's Sciential Table cannot be annulled. The temple of Arlo is to be strengthened, it must be restored, and therefore we have presented this proposition to force the whole of it; we have discussed the corrections of the others, a half-rational proposition, and at last agreed with Podemos-Nozzer. Eta bukatzeko, bozketan jarriko dugun akordioa irakurri nahiko nuke. Gazteleraz irakuriko dut: "Parliament requests the Department of Health: One, to comply urgently with the agreements signed so far with the unions in order to regain dialogue and negotiation at the Osakidetza Sectoral Bureau. Two, in order to ensure an adequate structural staff to ensure the sufficiency of staff, that the Osakidetza Sectoral Bureau... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Two. In order to ensure an adequate structural staffing structure, ensuring the sufficiency of staff, the Osakidetza Sectoral Bureau agrees with the unions on the number of places to be stabilized in the process according to the Royal Decree Law 14/2021, opening up the jobs not codified in each OSI, and initiating the file for codification. In this regard, and in order to firmly address Osakidetza's high provisionality, we appeal to the Department of Health to negotiate a strategy and plan with the social side, within a specified time frame, in order to narrow the gap between structural and functional staffing. Improve the recruitment model, ensure staffing adequacy, and improve working conditions. Three. To ensure that the process of stabilization to be carried out, as well as the public offer of employment, generates the lowest possible workload for Osakidetza staff, expedites the procedures and resolutions to be carried out by the administration, and arranges additional means for their execution within the shortest possible time. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez. Your word. Mr. HERNAMY: Thank you, ma'am. We believe that the Basque Government must give serious and profound consideration to one of the main areas of competition that concern it, and also to its citizens. It is, I would say, one of the two main public services. The field of health, the field of health, the field of public health. About a month ago, on March 9, the Health Advisor opened a square next to the Mayor of Bilbao in honor of... I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. And, curiously, on the same day, the trade unions in Osakidetza, the legitimate representatives of the workers and the workers in Osakidetza, had asked the department for a meeting at the Labour Relations Council to address, at least a methodology that could unravel the important problems between the Government and the representatives of the public health workers and workers. Beyond the differences that may exist in the contents, in the solutions that have to be given to the problems, mark a methodology. Because the problem is that there is not even a negotiation, or this is what the unions denounce. And we are seeing that we have had more than a decade of constant conflict in the field of public health. That is why we believe from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida that the government has to make a reflection, a profound reflection. Because it's not about short-term, punctual problems. And this is not a time-bound mobilization of trade unions in the face of a specific problem. It is a cluster of long years of disagreement between the Government and representatives of public health workers. And this seems serious to us. It seems to us that a Government would have to make every effort, more after this hard experience we have had with the pandemic. He would have to make every effort and more to have a normal relationship with the unions, and sit down and talk to them. And this isn't happening. And we ask the Basque Government to reflect on this, because the problems, the main problem is that Mrs Ubera has put on the table with regard to temporality, about the lack of that necessary structural employment in Osakidetza. But it is not the only problem that Osakidetza's workers have been claiming. And besides, it's a problem that's not recent, that's not new. It's a problem that's old. It is a problem that precedes Mr. Mariano Rajoy's famous replacement rates. Because before them, Osakidetza already had a very high temporality, more than 30%. And therefore, it is a problem to which of course, now when a limited OPE of a thousand and peak places arise, because logically we are far away, far away from what is needed. Because it's a problem that's been accumulating for too many years. When she also says that there are certain profiles that are difficult to cover, which may be true, it is also because for many years what has been done, what has been done, also by other governments; but what has been done by the Basque Government so that, for example, certain positions in primary care that we all say is so important, can be attractive or not. That's why we think the problem isn't two days ago, the problem is serious. It responds to the specific policies that the Basque Government has been developing for many years. But we think that the Basque Government's first reflection is how it views its relationship with the Osakidetza workers. Beyond content and solutions. It cannot be that we are continually listening to the professionals in Osakidetza say that the negotiating tables - the name itself says it should be negotiating tables - are tables where they find that the Government comes with certain closed proposals. Of course, if they're signed, then it's a deal. Certain proposals already closed, which are not negotiated, are reported. Certain issues that trade unions want to talk about, and the Government says that this is not the time or that it does not want to talk about. Even right now, where the measures we have had with the contact pandemic have become more flexible, today is the first day we can talk in this rostrum without the mask, and it seems that the Government insists that the meetings at this table should be telematic. It's a very important table. That's what the unions report, counselor. I, of course, welcome the complaint they make. And if you don't, well, you'll deny it. And then they denounce something that we also find particularly serious, and that also shows how the government operates... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ...if you don't, well, you'll deny it. And then they denounce one thing that we also find particularly serious and which also shows how the Government operates, which is a propaganda that is being done. Plans to be made by the Government at these negotiating tables that workers and workers' representatives learn the day before through the media. They are a cluster of government behaviours that demonstrate a lack of willingness to dialogue with workers'representatives and representatives. That is why I say that I believe that the first reflection that the Government has to make is how it addresses the relationship with the health care providers of Osakidetza, through their legitimate representatives, who are the trade unions of Osakidetza. And then a question that is particularly denouncing: non-compliance with agreements. We discussed the other day in the Health Committee about non-compliance with the professional development agreement. Moreover, we have said: well, if the problems are technical problems, it will take a little longer, an agreement that had been signed to be paid in 2021 and that this supplement has not yet been paid; if the problems are technical, the unions will be able to have less patience, we can have a little more patience. But it is also in this case, the Basque Nationalist Party lies that the agreement was to negotiate the new model and then pay, when the agreement is to pay and the new model is being negotiated in the meantime. Therefore, we believe that the first reflection that this Government has to make is how it confronts its relationship with the representatives of the workers of our very important public health. And then, logically, there will be differences in how to solve important and large problems that, as I said, come from time ago. But it is clear that the issue of temporality needs to be addressed first, and the measures put forward by the Government, of course, do not seem to be the beginning of a solution. And the batteries will have to be put on, because it is a problem, of course, that has to be solved. It is normal for trade unions to be shocked that some of the arguments given by the Government - not those to which I referred earlier, but yes another, concerning various problems that exist in public health and which have to do with how to make primary care for professionals more attractive too - the Government is also talking about resources. We have seen that the resources allocated by the Government — from which we often draw our breasts when discussing budgets — are not enough to solve those problems. And they are shocked that this contrasts with Mr Azpiazu's announcements, for example, by talking about collection records, etc. And it also clashes with the government's political use of an unfulfilled agreement, to announce the eve of a strike, to deactivate it, saying that it is now going to comply with the agreement and also puts a very large figure of 300 million euros on the table, with the sole aim of deactivating the strike. The first thing they have to solve is the relationship with the representatives of the workers of Osakidetza. And that is what we have dealt with in our amendment as a whole, and it is also reflected in the agreement we have reached with the proposing group. And then there is an issue that we usually include when we discuss these issues, which we then withdraw when negotiating with different groups - today too - which is the model: when we insist on the empowerment of the public model. Because this also affects the degree of temporality we have. That affects how resources move. Because, of course, saying "Euskadi allocates a bulk of millions to health" - Azpiazu comes out when we discuss budgets -. "Very high." Indeed. "And it has also increased over the previous year." Sure, but how are those resources distributed? How much diversion to the private system is there in those resources? How does this influence the failure of the public system? And we also want to talk about these issues, because that influences the situation in our public health. But what we are asking you today about this proposal, because we have discussed proposals on these issues repeatedly, and we are going to continue to do so, because the problem is going to remain there if the Government does not at least change its attitude, and what we are asking you is a deep reflection, first of all, on the relationship with the representatives of Osakidetza. It is very good that they inaugurate places in his honour or in homage. It's all right, that we all come out to applaud at the time, but what they're asking them to do first is that they feel serious about negotiating with them to find solutions. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u43	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Today we are dealing with a subject that we have discussed on several occasions in this Parliament, which is the subject of Osakidetza's temporality, and more specifically also the call for public places of employment, public offers of employment, and in this case in Osakidetza. It's not a subject, as I say, new, it's recurrent. And we had been alerting for a long time about the reality of Osakidetza's staff. Above all, taking into account not only the figures of temporality to which the spokesmen who preceded me in the use of the floor have referred, but also the characteristics of an ageing staff who would retire in the coming years. That's what we said a few years ago. Therefore, we are now running into the reality of many retirements in Osakidetza's staff. We too, over all these years, have suggested that an approach, worth redundancy, should be put in line with or in line with the human resources needs of the various specialties in Osakidetza. I mean, we had to make a planning. And I think on this subject... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... the different specialties in Osakidetza. I mean, we had to make a planning. And I believe that on this particular issue too, because we have not seen any concrete planning, because circumstances were coming, the situation was coming, and, of course, I believe that for a long time now, the various heads of the Department of Health and Osakidetza had to have put more ambitious solutions on the table. At the moment we have a tool - which is on the basis of the initiative proposed by Bildu - which is the framework provided by Law 21/2021 of 28 December. We have to say that in this law we abstained, but not for the purpose of it, but for the precipitation to which the decisions of the government of Pedro Sánchez and Podemos always accompany. And, above all, also because we wanted more flexibility for an equally important area of local employment. This law, this framework covered by this law, makes it possible to take measures to reduce the temporality, and this is what the initiative refers to. Therefore, well, it is a tool that can be used to reduce temporality, for we agree in that sense. I do want to make a reference to the context also experienced, because a mention has also been made of it in relation to replacement rates, which in a scenario of economic crisis had to take measures to contain public expenditure. They were also necessary policies, and also marked by the European Union itself. I already know that some people like the speech of disobedience better, but we, of course, are a party that we believe in in the European Union, which we also believe cannot be spent either more than public administrations do. And, in any case, the policies that we are proposing from the People's Party also go in a different direction from those that have also been defended in this rostrum. We are right now advocating and insisting on a tax reduction. I believe that all these initiatives within the framework of being able to stabilize public employment are very good, but they must also be seen in a context in which there are many people and many specific sectors who are having a bad time. And, in that regard, we also demand - and I know it is not strictly related to the initiative we are discussing, but in speaking of the economic context, I also think it is appropriate to point out that this is the policy of the People's Party - the reduction of taxes in a context of difficulty for many sectors, for citizens, where inflation is absolutely clear and already reaches almost two digits. With regard to the amendments tabled and the agreement reached, we have to say that we were advocating a more generic text to reduce time, and, well, we can agree with some of the issues raised by the signed compromise amendment. And, in that sense, the position will not be contrary. And with regard to the amendment also tabled by the groups supporting the Government, we have to point out that it may also be good, but when reference is made to the commitments made during the Government programme, it seems to us very good that the groups supporting the Government echo the commitments made by the Government on this programme, as it could not otherwise be. But also, in some ways, we understand that these commitments have to be fulfilled and that they have to meet Osakidetza's own reality. Finally, I would also like to make a mention, especially because in relation to a specific OPE there are issues that need to be resolved: irregularities in relation to OPE 2016-2017, some of whose categories are not resolved because those irregularities detected in certain specialties are in the judicial field and pending judicial resolution. Only hope that the forthcoming OPEs will be based on criteria of absolute transparency and that the public offer of employment will strictly respect the principles of merit, equality and capacity inherent in a public process of these characteristics. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u45	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u46	Thank you, President. Counselor. Sometimes it becomes difficult to come up to this rostrum after reading the initiative, especially when it comes from a motion resulting from interpellation, and then see how it becomes another kind of thing. And already in the interventions that some groups make so take advantage to talk about taxation on a health issue that Mrs Garrido will already explain to me that experiment of the PP to lower taxes and then ask to increase templates how it is done, because I think it would be good for us all. I think even Mr. Azpiazu would appreciate it if you gave that magic recipe, because the accounts don't come out to us. But, well, we have come to talk about health, and I - out of respect for the proposing group and those who have come here today - want to stick to that very issue. When this government came into being, we came from a pandemic that we have talked about on many occasions in this Parliament, and when it came to forming that government, precisely the issues arising from what we had seen happening in the pandemic process occupied much of the negotiations and the form of the government agreement that I can tell you well. And there was an axis shared by both the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, and I also think it is shared by all the groups in the House... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... both by the Socialist Group and by the Basque Nationalist Group, and I also believe that it is shared by all the groups in the House, which was the need to strengthen our health system, because the pandemic had shown that precisely the best defence we had in the face of a situation like the one we had experienced was our public system. And we, you already know that socialists think that the right to health is a fundamental right. If you go to that government agreement, you will see that we are talking about five bases that were then transferred as I will put them in the (?)commitments 71 to 75 of the government programme. These five bases went beyond strengthening primary care and advancing care integration, mainly in the socio-health field. And I would like to recall that a social and health strategy has been adopted, a step that we believe is relevant, because the pandemic has demonstrated the need for direct communication and joint action between the social and welfare spheres. Modernising and adapting health equipment, and as you know, according to the budgets that we have been adopting in this House, this commitment has been addressed. To enhance an own research ecosystem, which we have also had the opportunity to talk about and deal with in this very House. Develop a health strategy (?) Inequalities, which is another objective that I believe we all share. And I have left for the last, and that is actually the fourth, not the last, but I have left for the last, because it relates to this matter directly, which is to expand, renew and consolidate the templates. And that was a fundamental point of relevance both for the Socialist Party, which I represent, and for our partners in the Basque Nationalist Group. This point of the agreement was then developed in commitment 74 of the government programme, and basically in two initiatives that are very closely linked to something that Mrs Ubera raised here today. I will start over again, on the second initiative of that commitment 74. It was to review the RPT of Osakidetza, incorporate new professional categories, and increase the endowments of those who are under-funded, something to which the counselor herself mentioned the other day in replying to the inquiry you raised. And in the initiative one of that commitment 74, we spoke specifically of the need to increase, renew, stabilise staffing through OPEs in the period 2020-2024, applying the new transparency measures to these processes. And if you go to that agreement, you will see that we also set a quantity, which was 4,000 places to offer in the period 2020-2024. There were few, there were many, well, for starters it was a quantity we put on the table, which is already something more than what other groups had done that come here today to claim other kinds of quantities. But reality has led us to determine that yes, that there were few. And when you rule one of these things happens to you, you can have two choices: obsessing that even though reality proves one thing, you were right. That simply leads to failure and leads simply to failure to resolve the problems of citizenship or to accept that that calculation that had been made was a low calculation, and to take steps to increase those offers and therefore to adapt to reality. And you know, I have said it many times in this rostrum, that we Socialists like to adapt to the principles of reality. And that's what we've done by making a double forecast, more than double those squares. The other day, Mrs. Sagardui was moving him here. It's been a long time, and I think it's a very important issue, and I'm going to remember that. In the OPE 2018-2019 that we have approved in this legislature, that this also needs to be clarified, that we have approved in this legislature, that it is approved, that it is published and that the first phase is convened, 3,535 places are counted; in the replenishment of 2020, that it is approved and published, 1,002, and in that of 2021, 1,273. I mean, we're already talking about 5,810 seats. But to this we have to add the opportunity that has offered us, and I confess, Mrs Ubera, that it was laudable about the number of the law, because it was first a royal decree, Royal Decree 14/2021, which later became a law, which is Law 20/2021. Then, indeed, it is understandable the error you had. And this royal decree then turned into law, is a law of adoption of urgent measures for the reduction of the temporality in public employment. You say that it is painful to have to wait for the Spanish Government to make this decision, well, it is the competitive reality, and to you ideologically it may seem painful, to me it seems wonderful that a socialist government together with our partners in Podemos do so (?) the need of public administrations, and they can propose a law that allows us to add 2,800 additional places in the case of Euskadi. That is to say, we are talking about 8,610 places more or less through OPE in that period 2020-2024, more than twice as much as we initially collected in the government agreement. And why 2,800 places in this process of law, because the law requires requirements. I am not going to go into technicalities, but you can take the law, see how many years you have to take in the square, from what precedent, and there comes a calculation; well, about 2,800 places. With this, what do I mean? That, obviously, when you come up to this rostrum wanting to raise the profile that it is necessary to expand the number of places of Osakidetza, is not a message that you have in exclusivity. We have also made that reflection, and look, we have made the double reflection that we had been short in the initial calculation, and we have taken measures to correct that situation; that is, ours are not just messages, they are not headlines, they are concrete measures that will enable 8,610 more places... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...the situation. That is, ours is not just messages, they are not headlines, they are concrete measures that will enable 8,610 more places during this legislature. Finally, there is one issue that I do not want to take away, because it would also be inappropriate for a socialist representative, which is the area of negotiation. It's obvious. We always call for negotiation, in the private sphere, when we see it in the Employment Committee and there are business problems, and also in the public sphere. And we have made constant calls to all parties to ensure that, in the area of health, with a process that we have experienced traumatically, which is that of the pandemic, and in which, indeed, situations have been polarized, all parties, and when I say "all parties", I say all parties, trade unions, the department, Osakidetza, I say all parties, try to bring the situation back on track. Because for us - and believe me when I speak of us I am not just talking about the Socialist Group, I am also talking about the whole government - these OPEs would also be desirable if they were negotiated and agreed with the trade unions. And that is an objective that we maintain and raise. And we think it's an exercise that all parties have to do. Because, of course, if we retrace the path of dialogue, if we retrace the path of agreement, we can get these OPEs to be negotiated and these OPEs to be shared in their processes by each and every one of the parties that make up Osakidetza. That's what I call it. And I sincerely believe that this is the path society is demanding of us. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u47	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u48	Thank you, ma'am. The chief of the department. Partners. Good morning, everyone. Mozio hau gaur aztertuko dugu Ubera andreak salilburuari egindako interpelazioareen ondoriosz. Kontu honek, Ubera andreak esan zigunari ereparatuta, kezka handia outzen god, eta bear sad da. I will then develop what is referred to as sadness, but initially I want to refer to the concern, because I too am concerned. Mrs Ubera takes us into this debate, understanding this debate more questioning the motion, her concern. And it does so through a multitude of expressions, slogans, rhetoric you would say, Mrs. Ubera, such as "you cheat", "they put the system in check", "they act illegally", "they work at a hit of title", "everything is marketing", "they try to confuse", "fraud" or "mero makeup". It makes many references to us: this unites with that, with that, with that beyond. He tells us about principles that are violated. It teaches us many other elements, lack of efficiency, there is no speed. He tells us about calculations of many kinds. And of course he gives us examples, countless examples. And I'm worried about this. And I'm worried because among so many things I have difficulty finding the debate, I have difficulty knowing what you want to deal with. I know things are interconnected. But I think it would be more appropriate for me to stop hiding the debate behind those hundred things. Even so, as I am disciplined by the Rules of Procedure, I will do what you ask me to do, which is why I own the initiative. But I transferred my difficulty to him. And this worries me. In today's case, as a motion as a result of an inquiry, it is a little easier to find the subject of the debate. I go to the question that makes to the counselor and I read "In addition to the Public Employment Offer that has called, does the Department of Health intend to use Law 21/20 to initiate processes of stabilization of Osakidetza?" I've seen your correction. Finally to the third. All right. I understand that you want to know the intentions of the Sailburu, the intentions of the Department of Health in relation to the processes of Public Employment Offer, in addition to the stabilization processes set out in Law 20/2021. I will therefore focus the debate there. The intentions, the objectives that are pursued. The Counsellor clearly determined this: Government Programme. Intention, Government Programme. Indeed, this Government has set itself an objective that will be met and reflects it in the form of a commitment. We just heard it from Mr. Rico, too. In particular, commitment 74, impacting on two specific initiatives: To increase, renew and stabilize the staff of Osakidetza by calling for public job offers in the period 20-24, to which new models of selection and promotion processes were applied, incorporating the measures adopted and the proposals... and proposed by the Basque Parliament aimed at ensuring transparency, justice and equity, and, on the other hand, to review the current employment relationship of Osakidetza to incorporate new professional categories and increase the allocations according to the comparative parameters of our environment. That is to say, to increase the renewal and stabilization and review in order to adapt, which has also just been commented on. The counselor could have stopped here, because you had questioned her for her intentions and with this gave her answer to intentions, to objectives, but she did not. He continued to give you, despite the tone of his first intervention, despite that tone, he continued to give you much more information. And he informed him that the 2016-17 OPE has been practically completed, except in the categories that are still under judicial investigation, the rest, 85 categories, have been completed; that the 2018-2019 OPE, with a total of 3,535 places is approved, published and... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... categories have been completed; that the OPE 2018-2019, with a total of 3,535 places, is approved, published and convened in December 21 - this legislature; that the OPE of replenishment of 2020, with 1,002 places, is approved and published; and that the OPE of 2021 is approved and published, with 1,273 places. These are the facts. If we take out the calculator: 3.535, 1.002, 1.273. I mean, 5,810. OPE 2016-2017 is not counted here, nor are the processes linked to the Law. 5.810. Far above, far above the calculation you put forward in the first intervention of the inquiry and, by the way, in your motion. The counselor could have stopped here again, but no, she continues to give you information: she entered into details of the OPE that is in the execution phase, informing you that it is concrete in two phases, that at the first they have registered these people, so many women, 1,610 places, will be the tests these days... It informs you that 19 categories are convened, giving priority to Primary Care, with the intention of stabilizing as many places as possible in such a priority area, and that the categories are... and gives him a full relationship. And it brings to your attention the constitution of the courts with data and dates, and it brings to you, to you, all these details. This is in relation to public job offers. But, in addition, you asked him about the process of stabilization in accordance with Decree 14/2021 of 6 July of urgent measures for the reduction of the temporality in public employment, which, when validated, has become Law 20/2021 of 28 December. This would be the full name. Previously and speaking - as I said at the beginning of this intervention - of sad things, in his initial intervention in the interpellation, I made a comment on how sad it is that Osakidetza has to act under this law of Madrid, when the really sad thing is that he makes that comment. The only thing that proves is their absolute ignorance of everything related to this norm. In any case, the Sailburu also answers the detail on this issue. He says: "The stabilization OPE provided for in this law is pending approval and publication." But, as she herself foresees, the law will be passed and published before 1 June. The 31st of December will be convened, and the process will be completed before the end of 2024. And we're talking about around 2,800 seats, plus 5,800. So far, the counsellor responded to her inquiry into intentions, but coming much further: giving detailed information on processes; also leaving record of facts, concrete facts such as approvals, publications, calls and number of places, and even dates of evidence. But it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter: motion as a result of questioning. Sailburu, some of us were listening to him carefully. And I also want to have a recognition of the immense work and dedication that all of this entails. And our parliamentary group asks you to transfer this recognition to your entire team. And now how can you push all this work, all this progress? They can be promoted at the Sectoral Bureau. I, Sailburu, see your hand stretched out, I find that Osakidetza has systematically summoned and attended the tables, but in the last three meetings the unions have not come or stood up. We defend - we have always done - the shared work, as a team. The area of natural negotiation is the Sectoral Bureau; that is where the parties can and must address such crucial issues as those we are dealing with here today. Issues that improve the working conditions of health professionals and those that only improve the care received by society as a whole. We're at a key moment. There's a lot at stake. If we want this to go ahead and do so from the agreement, we need to sit down to dialogue, sit down to dialogue, clear differences and look for meeting points. We encourage you again to attend the meetings of the Sectoral Bureau, because it is the best way, the most effective way to agree on solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u49	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u50	Mr. Rico, I'll start with you. We think it's great for Madrid to take action, but what we miss is the EAE government initiative, yes. And the EAE government is making an initiative which Madrid somehow forces. So, since you're part of the government, please don't we? This natural initiative, which is lacking in action, may be exercised by this government. Look, Mr. Aiartza, besides listening to the counselor, I read the transcript. So we are well aware of the information that the Counsellor has provided to us, and that is why we have seen the need to present this initiative. These places he mentions are retirements only. And to all those squares you have to add the squares that at the moment have no code. Look, in those calls of 2020-2021, they talk about the structural squares. In these operations, as I said earlier, they only face the temporaryity of the interims, the rest of 11,000 do not swell their teeth. They don't swell his... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...as I said before, they only face the temporaryity of the interims. The rest of 11,000, because they don't swell their teeth. Don't blow his tooth. And, in this Osakidetza stabilization call, only 1,200 of those 11,000 are stabilized. And the 1,600, they're from interims of the squares that already have code. Look, there are many times the forms this medical department has accused Madrid of. Yeah? That he does the information without disturbing it, that he behaves in one-sided terms, that he doesn't hire anyone, that there are no co-workers, that there are no negotiations. The question is, is this health department conscious of its forms? How does this health department work? The spine of the shell is plantil, it's a plantain. Because they treat people. And without the enough plan, without a solid plan, without well structured, it's impossible to guarantee a physical health care. And at this moment the spine is highly damaged by the policy that has been established for years. No schedules. And then it's said that professionals are missing. The standard of resistance is a very pretor, which has made it difficult for daily use. And the workers are under very poor conditions. And so, in years, that spine, this plan, has been condemned to an effort, so that the patients can get a quality attention. But that's a limit, and that's the limit. And he's absorbed in pandemy, so there's no guarantee of physical health. And now the patients see that. It's no use to say how much investes in the EAE of the person. Because that's only an average number at last. That number doesn't guarantee that the investment is well made or that it is well used. It does not ensure that all the citizens have access to equity in their health system, or that a person will have that care of health at time and time, and at the time he wants. And that's what he needs to vouch for. And for that, the importance of the planet is essential, it is indispensable. And right now, for the Department of Health, for the members of the Osalome, you should be a personal, workers, a priority. Because they're no longer worth the words. People are so burnt, they're tired. And when the young people go, the contracts offered, because they are pre-acquisitions, because they are still deep in provisionalness. And now it's time to behave boldly, to break up the inertias we've been dealing with, to break up the dynamics of the Medical Department so far, and to make a different policy. And work with unions that haven't worked for years: Go to the Ossalis, examine the squares without the code, examine the constructions, identify them, surface those squares, agree, put a value into the field. And, of course, trust and credibility, especially in order to regain credit, must be fulfilled by the agreements which have hitherto been signed. If not, what worth is there, what worth has the table in the field, if it is not capable of filling what this government has signed? And that's what we have to do. Look, it's not enough for the year OPEa announced in 2016 repeating those squares. It's no use Distorting reality, believing your own lies. To nullate the signed agreement, to say that the agreements that are unfinished are full. We're told the unfillable agreements are full. A ver, where do we live, where do we live? What are we doing? Please. I think, and we think that workers deserve a different answer and a different attitude from the Osalides' direction, the Medical Department. These two years have been hard on us all. But also for workers. And it seems to me that at this moment, workers for members of the Osalome and representatives of the Osaults need a different answer than they haven't had for years, and that we need a different dynamic, in order to face our situation. What else was there...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u52	Yeah. We focused our initiative precisely on the importance of the Government addressing this negotiation with the trade unions. We did not include the number of places needed to end that very high temporality, which, as I said before, is not the fruit of two days. And that the political action of the Government, for more than a decade, has been responsible for this situation, in which they feel they are negotiating with trade unions. And we asked the Government for that first thought, because we believe that this Government does not at all have the attitude that a Government should have with the representatives of public health workers. And today we have heard here, once again, in this case Mr Aiartza, representative of the PNV, who places the responsibility for this lack of negotiation on the trade union side. We appeal to both sides. I now turn to Mr Rico, the representative of the Socialists. We too refer to the two sides, and we urge them both. But this is a Parliament, whose work is to drive the Government, and to address the Government. And of course, the Government has a very high responsibility for this high conflict with public health workers. I believe that there is no field of work in Euskadi, even in the private sector, that has been going on for more than a decade with this very high conflict... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... in Euskadi, not even in private, that it takes more than a decade with this very high conflict, that it has to do with that brutal temporality that we have in public health in Euskadi, but that it has to do with other issues as well. Issues that health care providers seek to address in this negotiation, and which are often not addressed. Surely many of them have their budgetary reflection, and surely many of the Government's reticences may come along, but there are others that do not. I'm getting the attention they're asking for psycho-social risk assessment. Where's the problem there so the government can negotiate this. We have seen what has taken the Basque Government to carry out the report, the study of equality in Osakidetza. We have seen the breaches of the agreements, and that is why we also fully understand the distrust of the trade unions. This last complement of professional development is only one of them, it is the most recent, and that is why we are constantly referring to it and because we discussed it last Monday, but it is not the only one; therefore, of course I feel it is difficult to place responsibility on the trade union side, and above all, as a political group, we ask the Government to make all the necessary efforts, which may not be easy, but a Government must be constantly seated in the negotiation. Why if the unions ask you to go to the Labour Relations Council, why the government does not go. We already know that the Government has no obligation, but why it does not come, why not make every effort. Then it's very easy to blame the unions that when they're already pissed off, they can't do it anymore, they get up from certain tables, but eye, they get up with a message, they don't get up and say, "we're going and point," they say why they get up and they say what they think is the least they have to have at that table to be able to sit down. We can give him credibility or not. We, of course, give it to them when they say that there are elements they want to negotiate and that the Government says that it does not negotiate them. We believe, because we see it, that there are occasions in the Government's proposals to the Bureau that have been published in the media in advance. And therefore, we ask the Government that the first reflection it has to make is to reorient its relationship with the unions of health, public health. And I do think it has to do with Mrs Garrido's allusion to taxes, and I agree with the Socialist Party on this. And in fact, I was going to abstain from the People's Party amendment, because it is so generic that anyone approves it. I will vote against it, because yes, because it seems to us of absolute hypocrisy to be telling people that we have to lower taxes, and at the same time to say that we need resources for public health. It is not a matter of lowering or raising taxes. It's a matter of knowing where the resources are. There are people, there are companies that have and get a lot of profits, you every time you can lower taxes to big companies. They also negotiated it here with the previous Basque Government, but then, they are presented here with initiatives that say: "resources for public health". Of course, resources are needed for public health, and what is left is demagoguery.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u53	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the popular group of Basques, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u54	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I wasn't going to go out, but I think you do deserve an answer, Mr Hernández, especially because I think the rabies in life are bad counselors, and in politics as well. You yourself, and you will know who your allies are. We already know in Madrid that he is an ally of Pedro Sánchez, and we already know that Pedro Sánchez is not doing what he has to do, and to what he committed at a conference of presidents, again lying to all the Spaniards, I do not know if because he is too following the policies that you also condition him in the government itself. In any case, look, it doesn't come with the subject, but already as you have taken it out, and in the end, it comes with everything. The truth is that the tax reduction is related to everything, because in the end, when citizens what... What we hope is that governments will come up with solutions, come up with answers, take responsibility, quite the opposite of the government we have (?), where you are. I do not know whether Mr Sánchez does not lower taxes on his own conviction or because he follows your policies, but, in any case, our model has nothing to do with his own. Our model is the model of the autonomous communities where we are ruling, which are precisely the ones that are growing the most, and precisely because of this drop in taxes, because when taxes are lowered there is more employment, there is more trust, the (?)employees have a certainties scenario, there are more social security contributions, and therefore, you can guarantee those public services that you are so concerned about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u55	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u56	Mrs. Ubera, I'm going to start with the health issue, but then I'm going against you, Mrs. Garrido. By (?I respect what we come here to discuss, because sometimes it seems not, and out of respect, moreover, those who have come to follow us. I, with regard to what he says to repeat and repeat the places of the OPE, really do not understand it, even in private he can explain to me what it refers to, because I do not understand it, because if you go to the data that brought us the other day the counselor, that I have told you here today, my colleague Jon Aiartza we are also talking about the OPE 2018-19 with 3,535 places, that of replacement of 2020 with 1,002 places, that of 2021 with 1,273 places, and that of the Royal Decree or Law 20 2021, with 2,800 places. I mean, a total of 8,610 places, which I don't think has anything to do with OPE from other times. So, I don't understand that statement. He tells us, we're not going to tell them... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... of other moments. So, I don't understand that statement. He says, "We're not going to tell you the number of places you have to take out, that you have to negotiate with the union." Man, they don't tell us in the transactional, but in the initiative of origin they did tell us: 5,000; they told us 5,000, 8.610. 8.610. You asked us for 5,000. 8.610. It has disappeared from the compromise amendment. And, of course, today he was talking to us about 5,000 in his original amendment, but on other occasions he has talked to us about 3,000. And look, I already know that I'm a bit of a library rat and I really like to pull session logs, when we were talking about 4,000 EH Bildu didn't see it bad at first. In fact, there is a very interesting session diary, that of November 12, 2020, in which EH Bildu speaks yes, yes, that those 4,000 are needed. I recommend that everyone read it. Then, a few days later, on 24 November, Mrs Garrido said that 4,000 were few, and there began the struggle; and there began the struggle, the traditional struggle that we have lived in the Health Commission throughout this legislature. That if one looks a little, the other looks a lot less. When on November 2, 2020 EH Bildu had said yes, those 4,000 were needed. Then I added the stabilization of the 3,000, the codes of the 3,000, to honor the truth, not only to read part of the session log, which I think it is important to be rigorous when you come out to this rostrum. And then you followed one thing, Mrs. Ubera, that I have to tell you, because I agree. He says, "It's not enough to give headlines." No, of course not. But that is why we also have to be a little serious, because it is not enough to come here every week to bring an initiative asking for things, when it then reaches a budgetary agreement with this government and they do not get involved. Because 8,610 seats may seem much or little, but they are more than zero than with your amendments to this year's budgets, zero, you had put on the table. So, it's not enough to give headlines. It is not enough to come here to bring initiatives and get behind the banner. There is a principle of reality, I have told you on many occasions, it is something I usually practice. When you have a chance to influence, you have to do the chest. And when you have the opportunity to influence, you have one to decide how to photograph; and you are photographed with zero euros for staff stabilization, zero euros for OPE of Osakidetza, zero, zero. Good. Mrs Garrido, I am very grateful when the People's Party comes in a bold way to ask that the laws that it has not voted in favour of in the Congress of Deputies be complied with. Which, by the way, we're doing. Today you have had the detail of recognizing that you did not approve of it, that you did not approve of it. It tells us the pilgrim's excuse, no, no. See, it was because the one I was running at the PP was someone else. Let's hope these things change now. Although you will also have to change the speech a little bit, because, of course, everything Sánchez does is wrong; but, look today you asked us to apply precisely the royal decree law against which you voted, which removed the government of Pedro Sánchez. This is very nice, Mrs. Garrido, this is beautiful. And then with the tax drop. Look, I recommend that everyone read the La Palma statement, which is two pages. It's two pages. And let it be seen what was agreed and signed by Mr. Feijoo. And it's been fulfilled. Another thing is that you like to ask for taxes to be lowered. I am not going to tell you that you like to have taxes lowered, because we have the measure taken by the PP; because the PP loves to ask for taxes to be lowered when they are in opposition, but who then raises all taxes? Do you remember the dicks' VAT? I remember perfectly, and citizenship remembers perfectly. You guys. Who put taxes on the sun? You guys. Who raised all the taxes that have to do with hydrocarbons? You guys. And now let others put them down. Hey, Mrs. Garrido, don't take us for idiots. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u57	Thank you, Mr. Rico. The word is yours, Mr. Adarz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u58	Thanks again. Mrs. Ubera, a previous question. I am going to add to the amendment tabled by Mr Ekain Rico, to the budget amendment to refer to his budget proposal: zero seats; zero; zero. A formal question, a formal question, criticizes the forms of the department. Critics today... fuck, says, no, no, he said it. She criticizes, she says, and she doesn't say... the forms of the department, when in this debate I have to fit or we have to fit expressions of the kind we cheat, tell lies and commit illegalities, fraud. Which, by the way, never comes to fruition. That expression that you just said you would have to say it myself, not you. And it's very serious. I told him he's hiding the debate behind 100 other things. 100 and some more, such as today's; such as the use of a motion as a result of an inquiry. And leaving, of course, of course, absolutely clear that it is in your right to do so. He asks for an inquiry in order not to attend in anything, in nothing, to the information transferred to him by the Sailburu. If I had done the slightest listening exercise, I would not have recorded that text, I would not have recorded it. How can you put in a text 5,000 places, in that text of the motion, when this is already exceeded by the approved and published places? We're already on screen 5,800, and soon we'll be on a screen above 8,000. Thankfully, less badly than in the processing Mr Hernández - and I have to admit it - has come to rescue him with the concept of "staff sufficiency". Which is what you have put in your amendment... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Hernandez, and I have to admit, has come to rescue him with the concept of "staff adequacy", which is what they have put in their compromise amendment. That I recognize, Mr Hernandez, you didn't put in the number of places. Finally, Mrs Ubera, you have realized that this is a dynamic process. For this reason, the Government's programme begins with objectives that are being expanded throughout the legislature. That is why we say to increase, which sometimes also seems to have to be explained, to increase new places, to renew, for example, retirements, and to stabilize, interim; but also to systematically review the ratio of jobs to the needs of the services, in the initiative two of commitment 74. Read it. And you have to listen more. He says, "I heard." Joe, it makes me feel like I don't. "I've read it." Well, it gives me the feeling... Well, read it twice. It gives me the feeling that you haven't read. Mr Hernández, referring to the negotiation, said that the Government must constantly sit on the table. I feel the same way, the Government must be sitting constantly on the table. And it is. And I can see that. Yeah. And I urge both sides, too. You say, "You only urge a part." No, no. I've urged both sides. What I also do is note that, for example, during the meetings of the sectoral bureau convened this year, four, in one the trade union party has come; in another, the last, has risen; and the other two has not come. I also see that. But I urge both sides. The important thing for our group, in any case, is that this process is culminating, that after the immense work done to date by..., to this day, we materialize it..., or that intense work, we materialize it in its natural negotiation area, and that natural negotiation area is the sectoral table, that is where the parties can and must address issues as crucial as the improvement of the working conditions of health professionals. Which implies... Because what ultimately implies this is that the attention that the whole of our society receives also improves. At this key moment, at this key moment, our group is betting that this comes forward and that it does so since the agreement. You have to sit down to talk, you have to sit down to talk. Sailburu, we know you have your hand stretched out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u59	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote EH, and together we're gonna have the half-direction signed by the Podemos-Bezzerz teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u60	Not accepted. Next up we vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 6; the opponents are 67; Abstenations, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u61	Not accepted. We're going to vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists, the Eucan Abertarians. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 40; the contrary, 27; Abstations 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u62	So the full correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Another proposal of Popular-Ciudadanos as a parlamentary group of individuals, as regards the conditions of COVID-19 loans for autonomists. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barri, representing the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u63	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Good. Briefly because (...?) an agreement, i.e. I will not go into the substance of the matter because of the characteristics of the transaction. But, well, my group had tabled, it has put forward a non-legislative proposal, which is an initiative that is intertwined with the one adopted at the end of 2020 in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises, with individual entrepreneurs, with self-employed professionals and with the measures on the covid crisis at the time, in relation to aid with extensions. There was an agreement on that initiative in December 2020. And we, logically, were looking for an agreement also now on this issue. It is still very necessary, it is still necessary to talk about the self-employed, the SMEs, the professionals and their aid, the subsidies, the crisis and the risks that some of them continue to suffer in relation to the economic situation. It was and is necessary to continue to take measures to help precisely these self-employed people, SMEs, in relation to loans, aid, subsidies which they receive, with their return, with the management of all this network. Well, actually, the initiative was there. We have understood that tomorrow's debate can contain measures in this regard and we have also considered this to be a good way, this transaction, of completing the process of this initiative through that compromise amendment. I think tomorrow might be the time... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... It was a good way for this transaction to complete the process of this initiative through that compromise amendment. I believe that tomorrow may be the time to debate, to talk about this defence of companies, of entrepreneurs, of self-employed people, of professionals. When I got in touch with the groups that agreed with me at the end of December 2020, then, well, logically, tomorrow's plenary session came out. Mrs Zabala, therefore, when we speak, I proposed to you in relation to the debate that we have tomorrow on these matters, the crisis aggravated in addition to the situation of the invasion of Ukraine, well, and what I therefore proposed, to continue to talk about support for these business or autonomous groups. And we can do it perfectly tomorrow. We will also move this initiative to what is tomorrow's debate, to the motions for resolutions, and we hope that we will all be able to agree tomorrow also in the area of the sectoral which it intended or which it intended, which will be a motion for a resolution tomorrow. Actually, someone might think... We must withdraw, well, because we understand that this transaction is a better transition in relation to tomorrow's debate, right? The withdrawal, it seems that many times it is that it loses vigor, that it loses strength, that it is no longer worth anything. Let us see, it is not a withdrawal, it is a transaction in relation to allowing such a debate tomorrow. We wanted, of course, with our initiative to continue to make progress in supporting self-employed professionals, businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. And tomorrow there's a chance for it, we'll try to make it happen. And we also ask the groups to go further in that direction. That is to say, it is an agreement in relation to those sectors affected by the crises that at this time also entail the invasion of Ukraine, in addition to the crises that we have recently experienced, the crisis of the pandemic. And, well, in that regard, I appreciate this possibility of making this transition through this transaction to tomorrow's debate. I mean, there's our text, tomorrow we'll replay it in some way or adapt it. But I do remember, of course, the agreement we reached at the plenary on 9 December 2020, 9 December 2020, on the financial programme for individual small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed professionals for 2020. Logically, it's still necessary. That is an element that we have identified, which is good for us to continue talking about, therefore, in this case, because there is the compromise amendment that you have all received on the economic data of our community, in which you see that we are transiting, that we were transiting in a post-pandemic period. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has created an uncertain economic context and tension for our businesses and self-sustaining. Well, tomorrow, then, there is that debate, that possibility of studying, analysing and projecting our interest in companies and their continuity and self-sustaining. And in that regard, I thank Mrs Zabala, Mrs Pérez, for the possibility of this transitional transaction. And nothing more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u64	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Representative of the EH team, Mr. Iriart, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u65	Good morning, everyone. Congressman, good day. "Mañana." The other day they told Sánchezi the President of Spain how many times he said in an pleno, but I believe today that Mr. Barri has repeated the word "mañana." We think it's a perfect discussion today, and it's interesting, and it's serious. What we do not understand is the deriba which this medium has taken, and in this sense it seems to us to be out of place and to have neither foot nor head. This discussion was given in December 2020, and is followed today. While we were at that time full of covida, while we were suffering the effects of the covida, the decisions which the states were making to face the pandemy and to enable all the economy to discuss. The comparisons of the States were made, how much each one put, what one did, what others did, what others did not do. And we all agreed to accept the loanal extensions, right? Because we all thought that the pandemy, because we were all watching, was growing longer than needed, and they decided for a moment that it was only to stretch out their measures. It was an interesting discussion, because they'd decided on that discussion about the things they're doing nowadays. He spoke of the matter of attorney, of the role which the States were to take to protect the fabric of their economy, and in this sense the idea and the probability of the market alone was cancelled. In addition, or in addition to this, the austerities policies used to escape the crisis of 2009 showed that they were of no use, and they sat down on the table on the table for the owen of this covid, and the measures which the states of the public investment had taken in general were adequate in the world. So today, when we're here for the first time without kisses, covida seems to be just past times and seems to be nothing now. The covida seems to be something you've passed, it's not at the headlines, it's not in our discussions, it's not even drinking coffee on a table with your friends, is it? But now there are other themes in the pout: they give a political book and a public diary. And to-morrow we have a monopographic − plino, from the consequences of all this, and the consequences which we bring us, in our hundred companies and in our society, to prevent the consequences which it will have and which it is to be. But, well, I don't think we can abstract. Our economy came from a violent crisis in 2009, the effects of 2000 and the covida... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... our economy came from a violent crisis in 2009, the effects of 2000 and the covida have again affected us, and now the high prices of the prices are coming from the Ukraine. And in all this line we can't abstract from either one or the other, because, after all, it's not the result of one's consequences, it's worse at the following crisis. And that's why, in December 2020, when this other legally discussed and agreed, the operators, small companies, and all autonomous agents, asked us to accept these extensions together, and with one mouth gave me these extensions. Today, as we have said, pandemy seems to be in the past, but we clearly see that the effects of the pandemie are still here with us. It's also obvious that as far as we're going out, the economy is recovering, but we think some companies and some sectors still don't raise their heads. Once, in December 2020, as all corporations, autonomical associations demanded, the abal extension is now the only association that has asked for these extensions of principle. And there, on the other hand, is one of the two points of the law, which the State of Spain (go? ) Because it has given the extension. That's why we're out there collecting the Basque Country, our teams, our needs, our situation, and we're planning to see the situation, and we're demanding that the extensions be given according to that. And that was the root of our full correction. In cases that may be, they will be, examined, and given extension to them. Because we still think there will still be companies there who will have reason to be there and take these extensions, and we wanted to open up the way to them. In this sense, rather than open the way to all, we proposed to open the road to those who needed it. Hence, we believe that the discussion was a routine of the day, well, the extension given in 2020 was for two years, ending in May, if the subject has its place. But on these matters, and on any subject, political reality and reality are acknowledged, and we cannot abstract from the covida, and now that we can stand on the threshold of the Ukranine war and prices, of a dispute and crisis, we cannot abstract, tomorrow, when our party asks for it, that there will be a monographic around the economic situation. That's why the theme is permanent, but we think medium is not serious. It's not serious because everyone knew monographics were coming tomorrow. It is not serious that all of us can't abstract tomorrow, and that there will be difficulty in getting the prices and the Ucraine wars, and that this subject will be in the diary tomorrow. Therefore, we don't understand why the point was there, or if it hadn't retired or retired, why do you want to discuss it there tomorrow, we don't understand. We do not understand why the sects that maintain the Government are bound to take it there by law. I understand, or understand, that it is enough, and that the word is of sufficient importance to obey and obey the word, and not to see it in a medium. That's why we're not going to make this half-way deal, and we're going to make abstition because we think we're going to... And we don't think that because we don't think we're going to argue tomorrow, no, because we have a clear idea that this discussion would be tomorrow. We don't understand middle-class in that sense, and that's why we're going to be abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u66	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Mrs. Pérez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u67	Gracias, president. Good morning, everyone. It is clear that our companies need funding to deal with the difficult economic situation that led to the pandemic and now to the conflict in Ukraine. We therefore share the fund, which is the need to equip our companies, especially medium and small, autonomous and entrepreneurial, with the aim of ensuring that the productive fabric in Euskadi suffers these consequences in the least possible way. For this reason, the Government, since the beginning of the active pandemic, has been adapting and improving the financial instruments available to support the most affected companies and sectors in line with the evolution of the pandemic and the new needs. As explained above, a first financial support programme was approved in 2020 for a maximum of EUR 1 billion, and a second programme was approved in 2021 as a result of an agreement by this House. A programme that has enabled many companies and projects, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, individual entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals, to become liquid, and in turn to be viable and future, taking into account their importance in the business fabric and in the whole of productive activity, but also taking into account their reduced capacity to access wholesale financial markets with the traditional lines of credit institutions. The measure has therefore proved to be effective and Elkargi has played a key role in responding to it. A program that also established new access conditions, and extended, among other aspects, the period of deficiency and maturity, going from five to eight years with the new call of 2021. But in addition to giving more scope to start amortising loans and extending the deadline for their repayment, this new programme included a specific line of financial support to certain sectors, the most affected by the pandemic, and enabled access to the beneficiaries of the 2020 programme. Between the two programmes, more than 8,500 loans totalling EUR 754 million have been formalised, of which more than 89 %, i.e. EUR 674 million have been formalised in the 2020 programme, and almost EUR 79.6 million have been formalised in the... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... EUR 674 million has been formalised in the 2020 programme, and almost EUR 79.6 million has been formalised in the 2021 programme. Although it is true, of the EUR 674 million formalised in the financial year 2020, 61% were new in 2021. In conclusion, between innovative loans and those first formalised in 2021 account for 71% of all financing. So we can conclude that the programme and the conditions agreed upon in 2021 have been well received by a group already covered by the 2020 programme. The 2021 programme, therefore, has not meant extending coverage much further to new businesses - in fact, it has done so by 10% - but it has improved, expanded and adapted it to those already in place in 2020. By sector, the bulk of financing fell into the industrial sector, with more than 38 %, followed by trade, with 23 %. Behaviour spread across each of the three territories: representing Alava 23.5 % of total funding; Gipuzkoa 40.3 %; and Bizkaia 36 %. The aim was to ensure the solvency of viable companies, especially smaller ones, with greater difficulty in accessing wholesale financing markets. And that goal has been achieved. So, a priori, we do not share the need to contemplate a new phase of flexibility of conditions. However, the crisis caused by the war conflict in Ukraine is striking heavily in some companies and sectors, especially the most energy intensive. And it is necessary that the administrations also adapt the aid lines to each scenario. We find ourselves in circumstances where markets, consumption and demand behave very irregularly, and the future is hardly predictable. The sectors also behave very differently, with different needs and demands between them. For this reason, and in view of the usefulness of the financial tools put in place in the pandemic, the Basque Government has activated new financing tools, in order to support companies that are being affected by the consequences of the war, with a extendable credit line of 10 million euros and the proposed co-financing to 50% by the Basque Institute of Finance with financial institutions. We must continue to accompany businesses and self-employed people with the greatest difficulties, and adapt ourselves to the circumstances, but with a real demand. In that regard, we welcome the compromise amendment that we have agreed with the initiative's proponent group, as we are working within tomorrow's monograph on measures to protect the economy and the people of our autonomous community from the consequences of the war in Ukraine. That's all, thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Mr. Irill, if you'll allow me, I'll start as you begin. Mr. Bario, the word mañana, we don't know how many times he's said it. And you're the perfect one. (... ) You have gone about the quantity. Today, April 7, it seems as if the initiative we're discussing has been out of date in time. The situation has completely upset Russia after invading the Ukraine. We don't think we should discuss this today. This war, all the consequences that are taking place in our economy... to arrive at them all, because tomorrow we have a monographic debate. Mr. Gordillo said last week that two other proposals, as opposed to the action of the war, were inopportune, when we were to make a monographic whole meeting. And today? Well, we didn't think it was right today either. Equimenion was introduced at the moment when our economy was faced with a stable growth. And when we were leaving back the outcome of the '90s, COVID. Our companies and autonomies, when they discovered a more generous year. Mr. Irriart, it's true. Pandemia hasn't left us yet. And the conclusions left by this one have not been completely exceeded. But we were on the right track. The resolutions taken by the government, the measures, and the plans which had been made from this crisis for the recovery of our economy, were beginning to produce fruit. This is how it was expressed by the first economic data of the 2022. The 2022 Korean information indicated that economic delays were being reduced, and suggested that it was slowly returning to normal activity. An example of this, that exports have taken credit and surpassing pandemia to a prior level. Or that the importations too showed increase. We may, therefore, say that in general, the foreign population was made a positive contribution to the growth of the raw internal product. Especially last quarter of the year, which four percent grew up at the rate of the year. And earlier than February 24th, the first quarter of the 2022 was predicting that this tendency would continue, and that, even more, it would increase more rapidly. And this state of growth was also being given in our neighbouring countries. In the European Union, the rate of variation between 4,8 years was given, and in the area of the europea, 4,6%. Another remarkable and important indication of the good rhythm of our economy received, is that of employment. Forty-eight thousand jobs lost in the Pandema are approximately 43,000 recovered. For the last quarter of the 2021 year, and even data for the social security of January and February, guaranteed the rhythm of growth, %1,9, and %2,5%. But, as I said at first, the pandemia is still among us. He hasn't left, and even the effects he left in the economy have not been completely surpassed. And in that way, we could say that the situation and initiative that our companies and autonomists lived in 2020 was introduced that the current situation was completely different, and also necessary... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... In 2020, the state and initiative that our corporations and autonomists lived was introduced that the current situation was entirely different, and also necessary. What does that mean? Well, it seems as if we're going to a time after pandemia, or at least to a new stage where the problems or solutions of COVID-19 should be assigned to different solutions. And what is it that we're based on to say? In order not to repeat, Mrs. Pérez has given her data here, about the preparation for corporations and autonomous requests. And I'll only say it more or less. It was a $1,000 program, from which 674.312.906 euros were used to help 7.962 companies and autonomists. 2020. On the 2021 however this request was made only by 652. This program has been given support to self-conscious and self-estates 8.614. But it may be seen that it has been a different tendency from 2020 and 2021. Beraz, an indicator that gives us the situation of these programmes: the difference between 2020 and 2021. The data I have provided so far place us in the context and at the time when the proposing group presented the initiative. But today, a month later, the situation has changed substantially and everything seems to indicate that the situation of 2022 is going to be different from that of the previous year. We have been in a cruel and unwarranted war since 24 February, and for now, there is nothing to tell us until when Putin is going to protect this massacre. Prolong, forgive. The global uncertainty and instability generated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine is already crippling the economies of the whole world; also ours, which is not immune. There is a risk of economic slowdown and of not meeting the forecasts. In fact, the Basque Government has already lowered its forecasts for this year and the next year, putting us at 4.5% growth in 2022 and 4.1 % growth in 2023. Growth, in any case, if less. It is expected that by the fourth quarter of the year we will be able to recover the GDP we had before the pandemic. That is the cost we are taking on: effects on our economy, on businesses and on families; uncertainty, instability and challenges facing the institutions, taking a series of urgent measures. We can say that today our economy does not face a financial problem, a lack of liquidity in the production system, for which the financial support of the COVID-19 programme that we are debating today was granted. And we "debate" say it a little bit intercombed. The problems caused by the economic affection resulting from Russia's invasion of Ukraine are of a different nature, which affects very directly our independent companies and professionals. So today's debate brings us a... I sincerely believe that the debate that the proposing group is bringing us today is not very timely. And I recall Mr Gordillo's qualification in referring to last Thursday's debate on the consequences of the war in Ukraine. It is totally inappropriate when tomorrow we will address in a monographic session all the measures to cushion this crisis. Tomorrow is the day to talk about employment, economic conditions and actions, and we have taken this into account in the compromise we have signed with the proposing group. But I sincerely believe that they have been wrong in holding this debate. To conclude, I would like to make a request to the PP-Ciudads. That the proposals which you present to you in the assembly of the whole future may not only be confined to the territory of the Arabs, and to the Arabians, as you have made in this other proposition. Let us make politics, for all the persons, families, corporations, and operators of our community, without the distractions of the country. In conclusion, I would like to call on the proposer group to expand the scope of the discussions and present proposals for resolutions for individuals, families, businesses and social actors throughout the community tomorrow, without discriminating by territory, as they have put forward in today's original initiative. They plan policies for all, and we will find ourselves on the road to reaching country agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-Vox, your word is yours, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. We were not going to intervene, but seeing that all the groups are intervening to make their position clear, because we are going to do the same. We believe from Vox that postponing this debate tomorrow is timely, but we do not think it is timely what the groups supporting the Government have done to make a compromise. We believe that there is no place when, in fact, tomorrow will be dealt with in more depth. We believe that it is not appropriate to open up a superfluous debate in the way that is being done today. Either it's about today or it's about tomorrow. Therefore, since Vox we are going to be serious, we will support the transactional to discuss it tomorrow, but we believe that this situation should not have occurred. We believe that improving the conditions of COVID-19 loans to businesses and self-employed people is essential. And it is essential because they also need the support of all of us to get out of that economic well in which they are immersed; first, by the pandemic from which they have not yet emerged; and, secondly, by this war in Ukraine which is influencing us decisively. That financial aid which Mrs Pérez pointed out to us and which she described as wonderful is aid which has been given at a time when the pandemic really shook us hard, and which has come very well. But now is not the time for you to expect the self-employed and businesses to return these financial aid, because they cannot yet do so, they have not come out of the economic well in which they are. And they have not come out of the well, because they have not yet reached that economic viability that they should have; it remains negative, in fact, in many cases. If you look at trade, trade is not selling, because GDP has fallen and people do not have the economic capacity to boost trade, as we used to do. Companies also have difficulties in production. In many cases... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... We have no economic capacity to boost trade, as we used to. Companies also have difficulties in production; in many cases, electro-intensive companies do not arrive to pay the bills they have to pay. All this also stems from the crisis that has occurred to us by the war in Ukraine. That is why we say that what we need right now are serious and urgent measures to protect the economic fabric in Euskadi. And that's what we need to address seriously tomorrow. But, honestly, I tell you, trade hasn't recovered, companies haven't recovered. Indeed, Elkargi has given a great deal of financial support to businesses, to the extent that it has been possible, but I can assure you that right now, if you ask small traders and small self-employed people, they have no financial solvency to start paying for these financings that have been granted to them. Among other things, because it's not the only thing they have to pay. They have to pay for many more things: autonomous, IRPF. That is, the measures are really necessary, the protection of our trade and our business fabric is necessary. And I hope that tomorrow, from the monograph that we have planned, we will really address all this problem, that it is not alien and that we will really take the time and the ability to help all those companies that are looking forward to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u72	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. Gonzalez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, good afternoon, comrades of Parliament. It's weird to talk here without a mascarilla. I've had some technical issues with earrings. Well, by focusing on the initiative proposed to us by the PP-Citizens group and in the face of this turn in extremis which has been this transactional amendment of rather technical content, we can only say that of course it is relevant that tomorrow is debated, because it is an issue that is linked to the economic crisis resulting from the war and also to the crisis that we are experiencing pandemic. But it must also be said that yours would have been, Mr Barrio, to withdraw it and not to dilute it a little bit here today by debating it, and again by withdrawing it, tomorrow they present it as a motion for a resolution and that is it, we discuss it on a sound basis, without turning it around today. But, well, as we are already participating, I believe that, like the rest, I cannot help but express what my parliamentary group thinks. In this case, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita has always defended - since the beginning of the pandemic and now in this context of crisis and as a consequence of the war - that it is necessary to protect employment, the productive fabric, SMEs, the self-employed. And where we have had the responsibility of government, we have deployed social shields, protection measures, direct aid and also flexible and state-backed credit mechanisms. The ERTE are the proof that there was an alternative to the austerity that devastated our country last decade and that you know very well. Where we had no government responsibility, we insisted that companies should be provided with liquidity and relieve the autonomous in the face of a situation of economic hibernation. No one has put as much effort and effort into providing liquidity with direct aid as our political space. Nor do I think it has been so forceful to warn of the problems of abusing loans and of the risk of increasing debt above the expectations of amortization, increasing - because this increased - the risk not only of defaults and of lending, but also of financial contagion by the public administrations. Even so, we have also worked on the flexibility of ICO's credit lines, and here we have argued for the same with Elkargi. Companies in need of credit need to be able to access what the financial system is refusing right now, and should have the flexibility to do so. And in relation to the initiative, two issues. Firstly, to say that we believe that this is an area that has been widely discussed in this House - as all the groups before me mentioned - the non-legislative proposal agreed in 2020, where the positions of the groups were sufficiently clear. And on the other hand, we have said more often the little legitimacy that the Popular-Citizens group has, which, while ruling in Spain, created conditions by which today we have a destruction of productive tissue of SMEs and autonomous people out of the ordinary. But we share the view that the unprecedented economic situation we are experiencing deserves to be re-examined. And we also share the serious difficulties experienced by those engaged in economic activities. What we do not share are the solutions that the People's Party and its citizens' partner tend to propose, because they tend to be unfair and ineffective. Your proposal, in addition to solving it technically today so that it will be dealt with in a somewhat twisted way tomorrow, we believe that it is also late, because similar measures have already been adopted in the outlaws, and therefore in this sense does not bring anything new. And also because foreign decrees have been passed that allow for the postponement of split payments and other tax relief measures. And yes, tomorrow, we will certainly get to the bottom of the matter. But, as I said before, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is in favour of flexibilizing the payments and terms of the credits promoted by Elkargi, but we do not agree very much with today's process. No more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Passing the answer round, representative of the popular-Chaulous team, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u75	Thank you. I mean, they give me reason, but they don't agree with the procedure. That is to say, they give me the reason to be flexible, to be analysed - what we said in the first part of our initiative - but they do not agree with the procedure. Well, procedure... forgive me, but it's very natural and very normal procedure. I mean, to keep debating, so tomorrow... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... But they don't agree with the procedure. The procedure, forgive me, but the procedure is very natural and very normal; that is, to continue debating, so that tomorrow this which could have been voted against, may have a virtuality of debate, a topicality, or we can get something, for I have operated as I have, logically, withdrawn would have been, Mrs González, how to recognize that I had lost current or that I had lost virtuality, and that is not so, it is not so. And let us, please, the proposers, see how the processing of our initiatives ends, above all, if it is in this way, especially if it is to enrich tomorrow a debate that we understand can be so. That is, in that sense, because it may seem good to you how it ends, how it proceeds, but, in any case, it is a capacity that the proponents have, and you will have encountered similar situations, and Mr Iriarte also, in relation to his initiatives, some much more frustrating, because they have voted against it. Tomorrow we will certainly still agree on the responsibility and needs of the groups, as we can also agree on these issues, and that would be good news. Well, we wanted to facilitate in this transition transaction a good news that we hope it will be... that we trust it will arrive tomorrow. That is why I, who is the bottom, am not going to argue with you right now. I think it seems to us, it looks a lot like the (?)exposition, and that of Mr Iriarte is very similar to ours. Companies that have needs, logically, and that is why, logically, all this is analysed who are those who need to extend aid, subsidies, COVID-19 loans, because some do, others do not. Well, it will extend, if necessary, to those who need it. We have no doubt that in that sense we have thrown the ball to play it, and there can be a transaction in that direction. There could not have been a compromise on the substance of the matter at this time so that it could be tomorrow, well, because we are playing the game. We played the game and that's the proposal. I'll say it again. The alternative was to vote for me not to or withdraw an initiative that we consider virtual, that is, that the proponents there can... I can understand that I wanted to have approved what I have tabled, the first point, logically, the second, we have already seen that some measures have been taken, but well, it may be tomorrow, because it may be tomorrow. Well, I, like Mr. Iriarte, was telling me that you don't understand the one about maintenance, and I think it's a very relevant, very relevant initiative, this is the initiative I've put forward, just like you don't... It seems good to you, because you have not presented it the same way, but you would of course have presented the text you have tabled as an amendment to the whole, which of course was very similar in relation to what needs to be done. Moreover, I am sure you will understand me perfectly, if we have brought this initiative it is because it has been requested by sectors. It has not occurred to the People-Citizens group this initiative, is that there are sectors, and that is why I used to put the Álava thing, because we have come to... because precisely the people who came came from this historical territory in relation to these claims, well, because professional collectives who showed it. And in that sense, for I am sure that you have also been assured that entrepreneurs, small businesses, self-employed professionals who have received covid aid or that... I am sure that you have been with you, with you, I have no doubt. In any case, without going into the substance of the matter, and seeing that tomorrow we can enrich the debate with issues such as these as are so necessary. I mean, we want to make a deal. These motions for resolutions will be discussed tomorrow. I think it's the best stage. Well, you don't like the procedure very much, this transition, but, well, I say again, I prefer that this be the case, that by not withdrawing an initiative that is very important to me, or by voting that is not, that is, I prefer this and that tomorrow the resolution can be a success. I mean, if we make a deal tomorrow, that would be good news for everyone, right? To talk about protecting entrepreneurs in difficulties, professionals in difficulties, self-employed people who have suffered from the pandemic, because we are indeed in a post-pandemic period, but we still have the effects of COVID-19 in relation to our industrial productive fabric. That is, I hope that tomorrow there will be an agreement just as there was at the end of 2020 in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Irrez of the EH team must not speak a word. Mrs. Pérez... Somebody... ? González isn't... Not even Martín... End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-direction that's signed by the Basque Popula-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists and Euzébertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 27; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u77	So it's accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Provide the other proposal as a parlamentary group, both in communication with the development of the job and in the evaluations of the programs, systematically using the indicators of employment. Discussion and... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... On communications with which program evaluations refer to the systematic use of quality job indicators. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, representative of the EH Collect group has the word to present and defend itself. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. And good day to the congressmen, to all good days. How nice without the mask, really, what a taste. I'm sure today's agreement won't have much headlines, but I think there's a deal of importance in its size that we've made today. We've talked a lot of things in this legislature since the ceremony began from − preface, but I think especially in this legislation about non-descript work, right? And I dare say, all of us in words, without distinction, have appeared to promote social employment with a political purpose. But we saw in different discussions that we shared this end, but then some of the shades that came up, or other signs arrived at us. I did this on behalf of this subject, in this legislature, the first interpenetration in this law, the interpenetration I made to Mrs. And here, well, we had some worries about us, because there were some concerns about how the Government's plans began to announce that we saw different expressions in it, for example, between the acts of President Urkullus or the made by the President of the Mountain. It was the moment when the egg planned to recover this lost job that they couldn't leave jobs at a second stage, so to speak, the quality of employment. And the Mountain said it wasn't a matter of choice, it was the purpose of promotement of employment of quality. Then we saw the government arrangement, and that was the end of it.... a clear preference in the frame of government agreement: employment. That's the way it was mentioned. And then an engagement: job quality improving, in a second level. Then he came back again, with the vertical axes of two pieces: on the second axis, the creation of employment, not of quality, of employment; and as a indirect field, the quality of employment. And then the program came also, and we saw that when the great results of the Renaissance were identified, when the expected results were tested, the indicators on the quality of the job were not present. And we've always said here that this second wish troubled us because the moment was different. And I've already said here that we all seem to talk about the same things sometimes, but after all I don't know if we don't talk about things very different. And there are times when the use of terms and words seems to be wanting, are there not? Or something like that happens. And I have here, too, said that I had the feeling that such a thing was passing with the concept of high-quality employment. But I dare say that in our long discussions we've had a lot of −, though we've not always come to the agreements, we've gradually moved forwards; and, perhaps, we've been approaching positions in that first universality where we spoke. And I dare say that these discussions have been brought in by compacts and decorations in the − fruits, drops. So, for example, the discussion of the Euscal strategy of the Epleca, was a matter of quality to promote the employment of the majority of political groups, would I say that it was a very clear end? And somehow, this verbal statement in various discussions was even registered. And besides, with our team's initiative, we agreed on the job strategy which is the definition of social employment. And we said that the legislative defines the employment of quality in the following manner: that which is founded on just and proper conditions of work, which guarantees the vital security of the mutual development between one and family, which encourages and assures the workers of personal development, reduces and sustains the internal scope of environment, and settles in the direction of the ecological transition, and the equality of the − man and woman, which animates in the new programductive and refractive purposes of perfecting. I think that's a very fat political deal. He didn't even fill the headlines, but he's fat. The road to follow, I think, is marked. And besides this, we also agreed on another point in the frame of this discussion, which is very important to me, and it was said: "The legislature indicates that in the Euscalan strategy of the Espices, the planning and the exact measures in which the workers can recover their employment, reduce social differences, give a firm answer to an extended preventive preparation, and offer opportunity for a patient future, together with a promotion of economics, economics, and quality employment." I believe this also in a very clear direction, without any distinction, is a political declaration that marks a clear direction for us, and I dare say this too is fat. And, you know, when you get to this point, you can say that it's the first strategic goal of the job strategy. And besides, even in the first strategic vector, the inclosive employment is said to be a fundamental instrument to human development, and I dare say that what has been taken in writing seems to be very clear. But later on, it also requires consistency. So, a frame... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... At least it seems very clear. But later on, it also requires consistency. So, we've somehow agreed on a frame, and what we're supposed to be is the consistency. And this being so, with these great agreements, and I think, as it were, with conviction, that in the evaluations of employment programs, it is remarkable that the want of the signs of the quality of employment are wanting, and in some measure universality is wanting. Sometimes, too, I dare say, the difficulty and the complication in which such indicators can be reached. And it is remarkable, that when they make expressions about the development of the employment, when they are made public, they do not use any indications about the quality of their employment, or use few. Most of the time, when press shows about unemployment evolution, for example, to express the circumstances of this development, the data of unemployment and the data of afilia. But there are few who use other indicators. The data of the duration of the contract is rarely handled, e.g., the data of a non-willed partiality, or the data that surrounds it. And this, I think, is a clear political choice. It's not the case. Because political communication is the result of some political acts. I mean, we all share with the purpose of promoteing social employment. They seemed to have stayed behind, and that they had passed through those times which had not been observed in the quantum terms and with regard to the quality of their employment. Then we could discuss another day, because, you know, it's a very small goal for us at the rate of ten percent of unemployment. But I'll leave that for another discussion. And it seems that, since those times have passed when it was said that we first get the job back and then the quality and such thing would come, that we are not in a position to despise any job and such, that it is no longer a matter of that way of not having to choose between quantity and quality. And, if we are all able to generate quality jobs, it seems curious that we do not change our way of evaluating employment programmes, and of talking and communicating about employment developments. Or that we've done very little. It's like you're starting a race with a lot of enthusiasm, but if the goal isn't marked, and it's not even marked. As if you knew... Not if you knew, if you're in a popular race, he's got a couple of miles, or a marathon. It's easy to get lost on the way. It's easy not to get there. It's easy that you don't even know whether you've arrived or not, and you can say whatever you think: that you've arrived, that you haven't arrived, that you've met the goal, that you haven't met it. And what's more difficult is to reach that goal. If it's a compartment of high-quality employment, shared and real goal, I think it would have to make a special effort already, in order to insert the indicators that measure the quality of the job in the evaluation of specific measures that start. Even when they're not, because sometimes they're not, to create them. And consequently, in all public occurrences of communication about them, to use the indicators of job quality. And that's what we agreed today. To make what we do when we examine it in such a manner as to measure that political end, especially to us, when we speak of the evaluation of employment, in public, in terms of quality employment. This is, in a certain sense, an action in the terms of our political ends. This, too, is a political choice, and I dare say it is a political choice in favor of employment of quality, and is highly interested. He's been running through the Basque Country these days, and he's got a rudder, he's got a motto. And it's in words. Pues, words, words, and words, which we have made an agreement to settle in the coherent way, and I think it's important. It's what I was saying, if it's consistency, and if you'll let me tell you so, I'm saying it with all my peace of mind, it's also an arrangement of honesty. Because many films change in one way or another, and they communicate. And I think as an example of this attril, the same example. And at the beginning of the legislature, the staff of staff, who had a press conference around the evolution of the job. And he, who had given the worklessness data, had later talked, had also given the proper data of employment, and had made a very interesting political assertion. And he said that we were standing in front of a presectary structure, and that was their chief concern. Then there have been other press conferences, and in these conferences, well, other terms have been used. For a few moments we found ourselves in some press conferences, where, in fact, we used to go back to these facts of unemployment in front of pandemia. There, for instance, we did not notice what the quality of employment was. Even in our taste for this word historical in some data, it has also been discussed by historical facts. But even in these cases there is no mention of the quality of employment. For example, I used to see Yolanda Díez's tweet around jobs. And he focused on the endless contracts of provisionalness this time. That's a political choice, too. It's a political choice because Yolanda had other facts. To say, for example, that a great part of those contracts, which are now boundless, is almost half partial. But, well, he had a communicative purpose, and this communicative purpose... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... A great part of these contracts, almost half of them, to be said to be partial. But, well, he had a communicative purpose, and this communicative purpose is found in his political communication. And therefore I think that this decision which we have made to-day allows us to mark a clear direction in that direction, and to treat of those communications which we make in the coherence, is not so? For, on the other hand, it may serve to make up the statistics at certain moments either for political purposes or for political redemption, but beyond which we are here to turn back and overturn some of the forms of structure. And the Prefect is a matter of structure in us, and we don't want pretors of life. So we're here to revolutionize that. In this sense, I'm glad you made the deal today. As I said before, I think it's a small deal that has its impact and its importance. It was very easy to get this deal. I want to thank Ekain Rico as well as Marta. The deal has almost come to me, and I will say so from this April. But the rest, Mr. Aardaz, John Hernandez, have all shown decency to come to this agreement. And it's true, there are surprises on the way, and it's as if the Popular Party would also join this highly-quality job thing, for this compartment of purpose. That's the surprise he's seen than his current course. But in any case, I'd like to thank you. I believe that so many disputes we have been in the way, and although there were also some things which were not just for us at first, it was also the decency of correcting them. And, as I said, the agreement has come to us, and I think it's a big deal. We'll follow this agreement carefully, see what it looks like. And when, in the next month, data is provided for employment, we shall be careful to see what it is. Because it's time to mark a light, not makeup on a gore. We have made a political choice by the majority of the parties in this legislature, and we are to act on the consistency of this political choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Hernanndez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u80	Thank you, ma'am. Yes, of course, from our coalition I believe we have not put any sticks on the wheel to what was being negotiated. I believe that, in fact, my rather skewed answer to both Mrs Kortajarena and Mr Rico to the compromise proposal which contained something of what we included in our amendment, but perhaps my answer was both ok. Because we believe it is important that we do not put sticks on the wheels right now to initiatives that can go in the direction of improving the working conditions of our class, of my class, of the working class. It is the same spirit with which we have faced the labor reform promoted by comrade Yolanda Díaz; to which I am of course the first conscious to whom I would like to include more things and to be more there. But in the same spirit we have driven it with determination, because it represents an important turning point in the defence of workers' rights. Therefore, we are not going to put sticks on the wheels as long as you move in that direction. Just like we did in the debate on the Basque employment strategy. In this case, the group that carries this area within the Basque Government, the Socialist Group, is well aware of this. We said on that occasion that for most people in the capitalist society in which we live work is not an option, but a necessity to live. We are convinced that this is the case, that it is a reality. But in order to live through work, employment must be of quality. Because, in fact, I think we share many that it is not enough simply to generate employment, to generate jobs; because we know, because we have the experience of the last decades that so many people with jobs do not live, but remain. And, of course, that can't be the target, and the left, of course, can never settle for something like that. I do not know whether this is a speech or an opinion that has already passed, that was in the past and that we are now in something else, as Mrs Kortajarena also said. I believe that this is a discourse of profound ideological pose; that of first employment, better a job than anything else. That is a discourse of profound ideological pose, it is the discourse of the right, it is the discourse of neoliberalism. And it is the discourse that has prompted, I will not refer to the labor reform of the People's Party, also previous ones, but that was the central discourse of that labor reform that intended to create jobs, to make the conditions for generating jobs more flexible. Then we saw, moreover, that it did not generate jobs either. But that ideological pose is there and I think it should be fought. That is why I believe that the quality of employment is one of the main concerns of most people. We also see it in opinion polls. And it is not strange, therefore, that both international agencies and Governments should include this issue in their agendas. At the international level, the International Labour Organization had, some time ago, created the notion of "decent work" to refer to jobs with decent incomes that favoured the social protection of workers, their families, improving their personal development and stimulating their integration into society. I mean, it's not enough to have a job, as we said. The Government of Spain, as I have also mentioned, has just implemented an important labour reform promoted by the Minister of Labour. Far from it, I want to run away from propaganda, but I think it is important to highlight it in a debate like this, because it is the first labor reform of our Workers' Statute, which is a labor reform made to improve the working conditions of the working class; the first in history. And that's important, beyond the fact that then, logically, I understand that those of us who govern and who have driven it have to defend it and focus more on the issues that it has brought forward. And maybe put less focus, even if I recognize it, and I think we always... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... We have urged it to defend it and to focus on the issues it has brought forward. And perhaps put less focus, although I recognize it, and I think that we have always done so, on those issues where it has not been possible to get there. But in this case the Basque Government also has the political responsibility to ensure that the employment of the Basque Country is a quality job, because we know that no job reform, no legislation per se, however good, is going to solve the problems of quality in employment in a complete way. It is therefore also the responsibility of the Basque Government to avoid it. I really don't miss it. And for this we think that the first thing, and the thread of the debate proposed to us in this case by Mrs Kortajarena, is that we need to know what is a quality job and what is not a quality job. It is true that we have agreed on a definition that I believe is somewhat generic, but it is certainly good that we agree on that definition, but then we have to land it, in this case the Government has to land it to its work on a day-to-day basis. And this is where I think those indicators come into play, and the importance of using those indicators. We included in our amendment some specifics, which can be talked about, because I believe that the indicators contained in the strategy, some are related to those I put forward, but others are not collected, but they fit perfectly into that strategy. They fit, but they're missing. We believe that they are missing, and it may not be necessary for them to be in the strategy, but in the daily work, in this case the Government of the Basque Government. There are different works and theories aimed at weighing the quality of employment, i.e. we do not start from scratch. And an intellectual work done there previously, but you take the theory you take, there must always be reference indicators that allow you to assess whether a job of greater or lesser quality. In order to be able to talk about improving the quality of employment, we must first know what is meant by quality employment, but secondly we must point out how it is measured, how it is observed, how it is reflected in concrete terms, whether or not jobs comply with that definition which we have agreed as quality employment, because with the definition itself we cannot measure whether a job or a set of jobs in a sector falls within that definition or not. That is why we think this debate is important. It seems important to us that there be indicators, mechanisms for measuring, an objective range of values and a formula that allows us to weigh all these values to establish whether jobs are really of quality or not recognizing that this is obviously not mathematics, that it is not a concrete formula from which a result that we say this job is of quality and this job is not of quality. But marking specific ranges for one of the indicators can allow us to define whether or not the workers are within those quality parameters that we can agree on or are agreeing on. Because, for example, by setting some examples, it's not much worth having an indicator like the average wage, without affecting what it would be and what it wouldn't be a charity salary, because there are people who charge 15,000 euros, people who charge 40,000 and with an indicator like the average wage we can see if we're above that average, below, how far we are or not. But the same must be said of the wages that make it possible to say that this job is a decent job, and obviously the wage is not the only indicator, much less, and it is a whole. Workday, possibility of conciliation, overtime... These are three examples of which we include in our initiative that we miss in the strategy, and we know, we recognize, that the issue of working time, overtime, conciliation... It is difficult to put it into indicators and it is difficult to measure, but we think that this has to be done and that an effort has to be made, because many of the jobs that exist today, the difference between quality jobs or cannot depend on these issues. In fact, they depend on these issues. I of my personal experience, I the employment I had, in the transport of goods the difference between quality employment and non-quality employment with a decent agreement, with an acceptable salary... He was in the working hours, the agreement was 37 and a half hours. Well, great, we worked 50. That is why these are important issues that must be measured, which are difficult to follow, but which must be measured. We therefore agree with the compromise because it includes the systematic use of indicators, although they are not described in the initiative that we signed today exactly what they are, but that we understand that they go beyond, even those 30 indicators of the Basque employment strategy, and it also includes something that we included in our amendment for a new impetus to follow up on those of the equality plans, because it seems to us that we also have shortcomings in measuring them and in getting them actually started, that we know that this is not only up to the Basque Government, it is up to the employers, it is up to the trade unions, but that the Government also has to follow up on this, because it also depends on the quality of the jobs. Therefore, we have signed this transaction and hope it will help to advance the working conditions of the working class in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u81	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u82	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. President. President, congressmen, chief officers, chief departments, good morning again. It's true that the agreement we've made today is important about an important subject, and we'll give it our help. The wife of the Corsicans, because the employment of quality is our object, and thus we have been in the Government, which is precisely the government of the Spanish Government, and as it is now in several commonwealths. I think this aim is a common end, and we have made an agreement on this subject. I believe that we have reached an important agreement and I thank Mr Rico for his efforts, and that in some way our amendment specifically called for that at a delicate time like the one we are going through, where there are many families who are having a bad time, specific sectors... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... concretely that at a delicate time like the one we are going through, where there are many families who are going through it badly, specific sectors, specific areas of our economy, also because of the special circumstances that we are experiencing, were affected by those most disadvantaged groups, as they can also be older people, young people and women, without, of course, fixing ourselves in those sectors also that, especially at this time, as I said, are going through difficult circumstances. And, in that sense, in the compromise amendment when it comes to talking, because we also talked about inclusive employment yesterday, because it refers to this issue that we were particularly concerned about. I am not going to go in now either in saying what are the best tools to create jobs. Surely, no, we know, with some parties represented in this House we will have more coincidence and with others not. I say with some we will have more coincidence, because with some, in fact, because we have supported governments and others have also been able to support us in other areas, and therefore we can certainly have more coincidences with them. But with others it is clear that our formulas are radically opposed. But I'm going to leave it there, obviously, because I think we've reached an agreement. I have already said what I had to say in relation to the policies of the People's Party. I will just say that the best social policy for the People's Party is job creation. And that everyone, besides, knows. I am not going to repeat myself, I am not going to bore you, Mr Hernández, so that you do not have to go to the replica to tell me anything, I have already done so in my first speech this morning. Finally, I do have to say that an important issue is that the objective is to create quality jobs, but in relation to the Basque Employment Strategy, which we had the opportunity to discuss in this House and also with concrete proposals, which was an important debate, the fulfilment of the objectives in relation to the quality of employment in that Strategy must be measured and evaluated. And that is why we consider it important that all these indicators be established..., rather than established, because in some way they can be established, as stated at one point in this compromise amendment, in the Strategy itself, but that these indicators be followed to measure the quality of employment. Therefore, Mrs Kortajarena, I have to give you the joy that we obviously support this initiative because, as it could not otherwise be, we advocate employment, quality employment, and the better jobs for our economy and to ensure our welfare.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u83	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u84	Thank you, President. I'm going to try not to get into gardens, because it usually happens that when you have an agreement then, in the end, we end up throwing the stuff at our heads and it's not that, is it? Above all, because we are talking about an issue that I believe concerns us and concerns us all. And we have lived it in this Parliament on several occasions. Obviously, for socialists it has been an occupation and a concern for many years. Already in the Government Agreement this is reflected in the first point of the agreement in the field of employment, on page 11, the improvement of the quality of employment. And, of course, with Idoia Mendia as Vice-Lehendakari and Counsellor of Labour and Employment this has been implemented leading to it being one of the fundamental axes of the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 itself. A strategy that, as has been said here, we are discussing with the possibility of making motions for resolutions by all groups. And I think it's a good formula precisely to integrate those different sensibilities when dealing with a bet that can't stop being common. And, in that regard, I would like to point out that this initiative that we have dealt with today and the compromise amendment is also a continuation of that joint commitment. I remember the day I read the initiative I called Nerea, it was already nine o'clock in the night, we were talking about it, and I thanked her for this initiative because I thought it was an interesting initiative to be able to develop what is now the commitments that this Government has made within the Department of Labour and Employment. And this bet on quality employment is a bet that is aligned in all the institutions where we Socialists are. And this is a very important issue, because in the Basque Employment Strategy itself, as Mr Hernández pointed out, there are also issues which affect other structures, which affect other administrations, but which are absolutely necessary in order to be able to influence quality employment. Because the best social policy is not employment, of course not, because access to employment until recently did not give you the chance to get out of poverty, for example. And in many cases these issues still have to be addressed in order to add quality employment rates that can allow a worker not to have to develop his or her field of work for a wage of misery. And that is a very important issue, which is absolutely linked to this common goal that we have. From the various institutions in which we Socialists are in line, we have made decisions that are absolutely vital to developing this deep commitment to quality employment. The continuous rise in the interprofessional minimum wage and, of course, I agree with Mr Hernández, the Labour Reform itself. Because, man, it used to be said in some cases when it comes to... in press conferences, unemployment data are fixed on some things... Man, I think that, for example, the indexes of indefinite recruitment, which have been absolutely high since the adoption of the Labour Reform, are a clear index of quality employment. I mean, it's not like it's a political option. The political option is to do this job reform to precisely focus on improving the quality of employment. And the latest data, well, they've raised... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... a political choice. The political option is to do this job reform to precisely focus on improving the quality of employment. And the latest data, well, since they have raised to historical levels the indefinite recruitment in Euskadi. We're on a 21.4. It should be remembered that we closed last year with a 9.9. Already, by itself, that political decision that the Socialist Party together with its partner in government, We can, by the hand, that this is what it wants to decide, by the hand of the social agents, we managed to have the majority agreement in the Congress of Deputies - for a little while, but it did - because it has been a distinguishing element with respect to policies of other times. It has a direct impact on the quality of employment. And I, Mr Hernandez, will tell you, because sometimes we run the... or sometimes we feel sorry for what might have been left out, or what... Well, it's just, respect for social dialogue is also this. Respect for social dialogue is that when trade unions and employers make a decision, we are consistent, and we respect that decision. And it does need to be brought to a legislative level, let us respect the decision that, through the social dialogue, in this case the tripartite dialogue, has been achieved. And to me, honestly, I'm never going to beg for it. That more could have been done? Well, the ones that decided on trade unions and entrepreneurs have been done, and they have our endorsement. But in any case, the agreement we have reached today seems very important to us, and I would like to thank the proposer, Nerea Kortajarena, for her availability. I want to thank the availability of Podemos, also the People's Party, for having arrived. And of course, from my government partner, Mr Jon Aiartza, from the Basque Nationalist Party, who at the time of leaving the texts, has also been there to give approval to this agreement that we have reached. In the first point it is very simple, it has only three points. In the first point we commit ourselves to the objectives of developing the Basque Employment Strategy 20-30. On the second point, we focus on the annual report to which we committed ourselves to this Basque employment strategy on the basis of the 30 indicators contained therein. And I want to make it clear that the time for putting in new indicators was there, not now. And they didn't. There are 30 indicators, which I am not going to read because this is not the case either. But there are 30 indicators enough to have a very clear annual map of how the quality of employment in our country has evolved. And, it is added the implementation based on the information available, the systematic use of quality employment indicators in studies, reports, programme evaluations and public communications, on the evolution of employment. Something that has already been done for a long time, as Mrs Kortajarena herself pointed out when press briefings have been made by the Department of Labour and Employment and there has been talk of temporality, partiality. Because obviously they are data that are there and that if we want to eradicate, we have to take them to see if that strategy is going well that we have defined among all, and if not, to improve it, simply and simply. And in the third point, therefore, we have indeed given room to the maintenance of the technical secretariat responsible for conducting gender impact reports in collective agreements that are submitted for deposit and registration. And, we extend this initiative to equality plans, which is something the department was already working on and I think it is positive. I want to thank you for the tone of the debate, I want to thank you for the agreement we have reached. And, I want to call on you to continue working together to improve the quality of employment in Euskadi. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u85	Thank you, Mr. Rico. One of our patriots, Mr. Aardazia. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u86	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Good morning again. Thank you, Madame Kortja's. Regardless of the outcome of the agreements, or the meaning of the votes, I thank you. Because our group appreciates very positively this opportunity and the contribution it makes in its proposal to the concept of quality employment, its impetus, and also its visualization. Having to face up to this debate in the most positive sense, it has forced me to recover some issues that, instead of being a preparatory effort, have in fact been a satisfaction. Although Mrs Kortajarena has given us a few tasks, which, in particular, I have focused on three, four points. I have revised the 2020 Employment Strategy from the evaluation perspective. Focusing on that perspective, I have reviewed all the motions for resolutions, not just those adopted; in an interesting experience, to recover them and value them without the stress of the day of the monograph. I have been able to compare systems of employment-quality indicators of countries in our environment, and I have also reviewed examples, as you said, of communications from this Government, but also from other Governments. This exercise has allowed me to appreciate more if it fits, the work, the scheme developed in the 20-30 Strategy, and the qualitative and quantitative leap that means, Sailburu, the same. The strategy itself is, moreover, a very visual reflection of this leap, since in itself it begins or begins with a strategic diagnosis of employment in Euskadi between 2009 and 2019, and ends with the governance model that contemplates the establishment of a new systematic - of a systematic monitoring and evaluation of the strategy itself. That initial diagnosis, tries to balance the quantitative and qualitative dimensions, and opts for a synthetic diagnosis. And it has two first blocks. Activity and occupation, on the one hand. And unemployment for another. But in addition, it has a third block, not smaller, not smaller, that analyzes quality employment parameters, detailing, analyzing the most relevant changes that occurred in that decade. Labour conflict, loss of purchasing power, gender pay gap, quality of recruitment, rates of temporaryity and partiality, health and occupational safety. Recognizing its value, the value of that valuation element... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ...health and occupational safety. Recognizing its value, the value of this evaluation element at that time, cannot be compared with the 2030 strategy monitoring and evaluation indicator system, which includes three types of indicators: context indicators, action indicators, impact indicators. Considering, moreover, different criteria: relevance, feasibility in obtaining the information necessary to perform the measurement and contribution of value or interest for the periodic follow-up of the strategy for its final global balance. And in the end, we end up setting up a list of indicators that are selected, where those that are considered most significant for each strategy objective are selected. In that list which has four blocks, as you know, the first of them, not the other, the first of them, develops quality employment as a fundamental instrument of social inclusion and human development. I would also like to, and it is the most powerful in number of indicators: 13 indicators. In addition, in block three, the subjective right to active employment policies and their translation into an efficient and quality public employment service, we can also see, three of the five indicators also clearly impact on quality employment, or even on the cross-cutting vector, right?, equal opportunities as a fundamental axis of Basque employment policy, since the six indicators employ... impact on quality employment. In the end, we are seeing that if we compare it with old measurements, because obviously, it is another world, that is, we have the indicators, that is, we have the tool, and this relationship, this relationship that I am doing, is my appreciation of the quantitative and qualitative impetus provided by the 2030 Strategy, which the Government brings in this case. We want you to know, Mrs Kortajarena, that we have analysed in detail the text that we... It is true that we had initially understood some elements of it, and I will tell you that, being so, there is a striking shortage of indicators to measure the quality of employment in the evolutions of employment programmes, as well as the lack of indicators of the quality of employment when declarations are made concerning the evolution of employment. Well, I wouldn't talk about striking shortage. I think, obviously, there may be room for improvement, but we understand that it's not... there's no striking shortage in the tool. Another issue that you are also developing in this idea, and which we think is very correct, is communications, that which appears in communications. That is why we very much appreciate the momentum and improvement that you propose to us in general, because obviously, if something is measured, it exists; if it is not measured, it is usually difficult already to exist. If it is measured, it exists, if in addition to being measured it is communicated, because there is much more or we visualize it much better. I also wanted to thank Mr Hernández for his contributions, which were materialized primarily in the third point of the compromise text, and of course the tireless work of Mr Ekain Rico yesterday. We are extremely pleased that this agreement has been concluded and with the compromise text that we have concluded to sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u87	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. In a group that has no corrections, MistA mustn't speak. The answers are the Kataja... Does anyone want to participate in the answering shift? End of discussion, we'll vote EH Collect, together Podemos-Nozzers, Eukal Sozialists, and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 72; the contrary is 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-07.u88	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-five.
