ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. And we'll start with a statement from the presidential. "The declaration of the Conference of the Common-wealth of the Regions of Europe, made of the present state of Ukrania. The assembly of the sheriffs at the 1st of March 2022 expressed a favourable opinion that the President of the legislature should make his own statement of the Council of Parliament, of the Parliament of the European Regions, of the present state of Ukrania, and that he should read this statement at the beginning of the following meeting, in order to express the peace of the Basque legislature to the People of Ukrania. That is why: Whereas the declaration of war between Russia and Ukraine openly violates both the Charter of the United Nations and the Minsk agreements; Deploring the deaths of civilians and military personnel and concerned about the risks of worsening the humanitarian situation in Europe; Having heard the call of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for an immediate ceasefire; Recalling that the democratic principle constitutes the foundation of the Oviedo declaration adopted in 1997, the date from which the CALRE has started to work invariably by strengthening democracy in Europe:..."... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... "...adopted in 1997, the date from which the CALRE has started to work invariably by strengthening democracy in Europe: He disapproves of the declaration of war made by Russia to the Ukraine. It reveals to him protection, without reserve, to the people of Ukraine, because he must fight again. He calls for European institutions to be united in order to prevent the agression of Russia. He asks the European Council to find a collective solution to these facts, and let him give the Ukraine a support he needs. He demands, in a general manner, all the countries of the European Union and all the citizens of Europe to be the people of the Union." After that, we'll have a minute's silence. [[One minute's silence]] Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I remember that Estini, the parliamentary member of the legislature, has had the vote in the spokesman's hand. First point in theme list: "The violation of Human Rights, Equality, and the Commission of Justice, made upon the bill of Law to make a second change of the Nature of Women, and Men. To discuss and to decide once and for all." It's about time for the government to introduce the law. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u1	My lady's head, if you'll excuse me. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. To me it is an honor to present in this legislature a new law of equality between women and men. For this people will take a great step with the law which we now accept to-day. It is the day of rejoicing and celebrating, the day of showing pride in the will of this people for equality, and also of thanking. 17 years ago, the Law of the Equality of Women and Men was admitted into this legislature. Then the President of Ibarche said that it was the most important law that AUBREY had made of the law, and that it was the most important law that was granted since the Parliament arose. We soon saw some changes made by the law. In this law, we saw, for the first time, that the presence of women was greater than 50 percent. The law, therefore, was not only a piece of writing on a page, but the law has had a direct influence on the daily life of women and men during these years. Seventeen years ago, the adoption of the Law for the Equality of Women and Men was described as historic, and it was so, because its adoption clearly meant a before and after for equality in our country. Today is a historic day again, because the amendment of the law that this Parliament is going to adopt represents a new and firm step towards equality. It also shows that this country is committed to equality and the construction of a society free of violence against women, and that it is also a pioneer and benchmark in this area. Thanks to the adoption of the law 17 years ago, our country has been – and is – a benchmark in the development of policies for equality and the prevention and elimination of violence against women. Law 4/2005 was a pioneering and landmark law. A law whose implementation has been rewarded by the United Nations. A visionary law that had already placed the eradication of violence against women within the framework of equality policies very well in 2005, which was subsequently ratified by the Istanbul Convention, which called for legislation, reaffirming the link between gender-based discrimination and violence against women. The amendment of the law on equality reinforces this link. It places violence against women as an expression, the most serious, of the inequality of women and men. And this is one of the great challenges of this change of law: to ensure that shared vision on the location of violence against women, within the systemic and universal problem of the inequality of women and men. Because they were clear about 2005. We cannot resist violence against women in the year, if we do not work in the root, if we do not work for equality, because violence is the most urgent feature of equality. This law confirms, as far as we advance into equality, less and less room for the violence of women? We say so. We can't separate one from the other. And this is one of the characteristics of the law of our equality, which will still be strengthened by the change which is admitted to-day. You have to face violence against women in the field of equality. Our law, for equality, was a law advanced to its time, and it is a law that grows and adapts to the new times. And we want to keep building. The law has at this time enabled a significant increase in economic, technical and human resources for progress towards equality and prevention... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...we want to keep building. At this time, the law has enabled a significant increase in economic, technical and human resources for progress towards equality and prevention, and the elimination of violence against women. Thanks to the law and the work of many people, institutions, associations and entities, this society has taken firm steps towards the shielding of equality policies and the integration of the gender perspective in all areas: Health, Education, Economics, Employment, Culture, Social Services, Security, Urbanism, and in all policies that have some impact on the lives of women and men. Specialized structures for the promotion of equality in public institutions have been increased, staff of the Basque Government and other equality institutions have been increased, structures for inter-agency coordination and cooperation and equality plans in institutions have been increased, the protection of women who suffer violence has been improved. This country is committed to equality and to building a society free of violence against women. There is a social and political consensus on this, and further progress and improvement is needed. We are very aware of the enormous challenges still outstanding, and it is precisely the obligation that we have to respond as effectively as possible to this great challenge, which motivates and justifies this amendment of the law. That is why we are presenting it with conviction, because despite progress, equality is still a goal to be achieved. And above all, because we look to the future and want a better, more egalitarian future for the new generations. We want the next generation of equality. Currently, we're here. The Euskadi European Equality Index stands at 71.1 points over 100 behind Sweden, Denmark, France, Finland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Ireland, on an equal footing with Belgium. We are therefore ahead of the remaining 20 members of the Union, including the Spanish State. Progress in this area of equality in the last decades in our country has been undeniable, but there are still many challenges: in the empowerment of women, in the construction of a society that makes visible, values and shares care work, in the involvement of men in equality, in the reduction of the feminization of poverty, in education as the most effective tool for the change of values, and in the construction of a life free from violence against women. Before I go into listing the most important challenges facing the law, I would like to highlight something very important: how it has been developed. We are talking about a process that has been long, precisely because participation has been taken care of. Emakunde has led a process to achieve the greatest possible consensus, and I would like to congratulate Emakunde on the work and effort to make the process widely shared and participatory. The project has received more than 400 contributions from both civil society and institutions and associations. In the civil process, in the participatory process, forgiveness, Emakunde has had experts in gender and equality, public institutions, feminist groups and professionals, social actors and entities and associations working with victims of violence. Direct channels had been opened for citizens to contribute, and technical support had been provided to women's associations of the Emakunde Advisory Committee and to women's associations who were victims and survivors of violence to facilitate their contributions. The proposal has continued to work in Parliament with the initiatives of its groups before it reaches today. Estela es toda la society vasca y es para toda la sociedad vasca. No podemos olvidar tampoco el cono en el se apruba state modificium. We are in an historic moment for equality between women and men. On the one hand, we are in a state of crisis, driven by panic, and we hear speeches contrary to equality. So they make it even more necessary. These are discourses which collide with the popular eupscals, which are more susceptible to equality. We are at a key historical moment for the equality of women and men. On the one hand, in a crisis situation caused by the pandemic, where speeches against equality also flourish strongly, making it even more necessary. Speeches that are a symptom of progress towards equality are a reaction to progress, but they are speeches that clash with a Basque citizenship that is becoming more and more aware of equality. A society that demands that we continue to advance women's rights in the field of employment, socio-political participation, economic autonomy, the enjoyment of leisure time and the right to live a life free from violence. "La gueldado para quedarese en las faíticas, es uno de los grandes retos de la sociedad y es un reto compartido." The new law resists certain hinges. The other gives the following steps: It guarantees the necessary preparation for all the administrative employees and professionals who have been committed, and it ensures an intersecrational point of view; it encourages the attention of women who have been victims of violence, who penetrates into the prevention and the early detection of violence, strengthens the protection of those who are victims of violence; it enables them to increase the co-ordination of the organizations; it continues to improve the coordinates of the co-ordination; it advances forwards to a social responsibility for care. This amendment provides for the strengthening of human and technical economic resources for the development of equality policies, strengthens the gender and human rights approach to work in favour of equality and in all areas of intervention against gender-based violence against women. It sets out measures to facilitate the widespread implementation throughout the Basque public and institutional sector of key elements for the advancement of equality policies. Propitiy, inter alia, plans, specialized services, training, promotion of representation of women and men in decision-making areas, or measures to promote equality in legislation, in public subsidies, and in public procurement. Promotes training on an equal footing... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... of decisions, or measures to promote equality in legislation in public subsidies and public procurement. It encourages the equal training of administrative staff, as it also provides for the progressive and permanent compulsory basic training in the field of equality for all staff of the Basque public authorities, and in particular for staff involved in the response to male-based violence against women. Strengthens co-education work in classrooms. It provides greater protection for children and adolescents from male-based violence. And, in this regard, it envisages the creation of a new aid for orphaned children and children as a result of male-based violence. It expands the system of care for victims of all forms of macho violence against women. It addresses the improvement of early detection systems. Without prejudice to existing protocols, the Act establishes the need to ensure the existence of up-to-date detention protocols for educational, health, police, judicial, labour and social professionals. It envisages placing at the centre of all measures the rights of victims and their empowerment, and ensuring their comprehensive care regardless of their degree of involvement or collaboration with the judicial process. The amendment also allows for recognition of the right to reparation of victims. And, among other measures, in a pioneering way, it provides assistance from the Basque Government for cases of non-payment of compensation established by the courts. It integrates an intersectoral approach as an inspirational approach to all public intervention in the area of equality, and establishes the need to ensure the right of every victim to free, accessible and quality comprehensive care, regardless of his or her personal, social and administrative situation. It allows for increased research and improved recording and dissemination of data. It deepens public awareness, ensuring the existence of campaigns, institutional awareness programmes, information campaigns and empowerment programmes, and aims to strengthen measures for women's equality and empowerment as a whole, as well as to promote coordination systems in integrated file management. We are face to face with a law regarding the future. The principle of equality which looks at a new condition. The law establishes in the development of attractive equality the principles of thoroughing the work hitherto performed. It is the end of placing this country in the rank of the most advanced countries of that country. The goal is to improve the people's lives. And the new generation to come. And the new society they're going to build. We are faced with a law that looks to the future, to a new scenario of equality. The Act provides the basis for further work to date on the development of equality policies. The aim is for this country to be at the level of the most advanced countries in terms of equality policies. The goal is nothing but to improve the lives of the citizens and of the new generations to come, and of the new society to be built. We are convinced that equality of women and men, in addition to being a human right, is a strategic need for deepening democracy and for building a more just, cohesive, socially and economically developed Basque society. The principle of equality is strategic to innovation, the excellence of the management of patient development... Forgive me for the cohesion of social excellence. Equality is strategic for innovation, sustainable development and management excellence, for social cohesion. And I would like to end by thanking the team of the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, Emakunde and all the individuals and institutions, associations, groups and entities that have contributed part of the best to make progress in this amendment of the law. And I want to thank the political teams of this Chamber for the contributions they've made. And I want to thank you, and in conclusion, all of you, all the political groups in this House. For his contributions, for his conciliatory and constructive talent in the face of this shared challenge. This society deserves equality and we will continue to work to achieve it. And today we take a very important step, and we will continue to do so as a team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. We'll join the teams' round. From small to big, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. There are many equality plans and projects, resources implemented by the Administration, including legislation that the Basque Government has put in place for what has been called equality of women and men. The last, this bill for the second amendment of the Equality of Women and Men Act of 2005 and which brings us to this debate today. In Vox we do not share what the text reflects as equality. And we do not do so because this text, far from regulating situations, attentions and aids for all people without any distinction on the grounds of race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion - as reflected in the Spanish Constitution in its article 14, and also different declarations, covenants or international human rights treaties - put forward the rights of some women vis-à-vis the rest of the Basque Autonomous Community society. I am going to give you some very significant data and they reflect very well why this bill does not recognize real equality for men and women. I refer to the National Statistical Institute and its report of May 2020 - the latest available. There you can see how the Basque Autonomous Community had in 2019 the second highest rate of male victims of domestic violence per thousand, only surpassed by La Rioja. And I have referred to male victims of domestic violence, because as defined in the statistical report itself... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...victims of domestic violence per 1,000, only surpassed by La Rioja. And I have referred to men who are victims of domestic violence, because as defined in the statistical report itself, a man who is subjected to physical or psychological violence by his partner, is not considered a victim of feminist violence, no, it is not called that, it is called domestic violence. Returning to the data, the report also notes that in the same year the Basque Country had the lowest rate of women aged 14 or over, victims of gender-based violence per 1,000. Of course, we're not going to escape a reality. The number of victims who are women is higher than that of men. But what about those 178 assaulted male victims, do they not require social support, do they not require attention, just like women? Men who are victims of violence are not guaranteed the protection of their health, health care and follow-up of the assessment of their state until their full restoration, to women who are victims of violence by a man, yes. Men who are victims of violence are not guaranteed specialized psychological care, women who are victims of violence by a man, yes. Men who are victims of violence are not guaranteed care, urgency, reception, or social counselling or social support to women who are victims of violence by a man, yes. Men victims of violence will not have priority in accessing publicly funded housing, women victims of violence, yes, and so we could continue. In Vox we are going to say it loud and clear, women do not want quotas or preferences in recruitment or support for business initiatives simply because they are women. We want to ascend professionally for our worth and our professional merit. Women do not need subsidized feminist groups that speak for us and claim ideological postulates that do not represent us, nor those that already exist as Emakunde, nor those that will be contemplated by the new law, such as the Basque Observatory for Equality of Women and Men, to continue to strengthen a client network. In Vox we demand equal attention for all victims and identical persecution and punishment for all victims. It is not a matter of men and women nor of demonizing the man for the mere fact of being. And laws like this only help to deepen inequalities and conquer a social scourge that affects all Spaniards and all Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, Mrs. Artola generous. We dispute the change of the law of equality. We have to say that we've done a terrible job on the power and then on the committee. This law was absolutely necessary, but at the same time we must say it's late. To promote new measures of violence against women was necessary, and there were two possibilities: On the one hand, the women suffered to make a special law of resisting violence, or, on the other hand, to change the law of equality, and to establish precise measures in it. In the end, the government chose to do it by this means, and we gave it our support. But we must say, in the former law, that the Government, the Government of the Urcullus, did not perform its engagement, and in some respects this law prospers; but in other respects, I think the texts are not very clear, sufficiently declamative, and, well, from this point of view, though at last we allow some of our proposals to be admitted, we shall at last give abstition to the text. We all share, or almost all in this House, the need for a law to eradicate violence against women. I believe that this is a largely shared objective, which has been a pending issue since the last legislature, and that the group I represent both in this legislature and the People's Group have repeatedly called for this in particular by addressing the Lehendakari through numerous concrete initiatives. We have made this clear in questions, in interpellations, and we have to say that this bill was not successful after the end of the previous legislature. As he explained, there were two possibilities initially, and so came in the legislative calendar, to draft a specific bill on the eradication of violence against women, but then, throughout the legislature, it was considered more appropriate to amend the Equality Act itself, to make a second amendment, since one has already been made we are talking about the 2005 law. At that moment we moved the councilwoman, we did not care about the mechanism, the concrete formula to be used, but I believe that the important thing was to translate into the same concrete mechanisms to combat this scourge. We have considered it opportune, well, to introduce some issues which, in our view, substantially improved the content of the law in some specific aspects. For example, the first, in relation to the title, seemed more appropriate to us to speak of the Law for the Equality of Women and Men and the Eradication of Violence against Women, which was the title that was presented in the amendment that was referred to the end of the legislature and that could not be processed. In that sense, well, some issues raised by this group have been incorporated, which I believe are improving the text, and that is why, obviously, we are going to abstain, which are many technical issues that, as I said, improve the text of the law. We are talking more clearly about the involvement of men in equality, which we believe is an important issue and that the... In the end, equality is a matter for society as a whole. More explicit reference is made to everything related to organization, inter-agency coordination and participation, and explicit inclusion has also been made in violent conduct and its prevention in sexual abuse of minors. We have also introduced what has to do with the provision of legal advice and labour mediation by the public administration in relation to staff serving the family home, which is an issue... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... we have also introduced what has to do with the provision of legal advice and labour mediation by the Public Service in relation to the staff of the family home service, which is an issue that we believe is important especially in an area that is clearly feminized. We have also explored issues that have to do with the establishment of specific resources for these women in different areas, as well as issues that have to do with greater transparency, such as incorporating the gender perspective into budgets in their design phase. Some of our forecasts have also been taken into account in the field of work, in relation to issues relating to small and medium-sized enterprises in receiving aid which, as we all know, is an important part of our productive fabric. There are some other issues that have not been accepted. Well, this is also the same as a political debate in which we legitimately defend different positions. The first, to which I referred earlier in relation to the title of the law, we also sought in the explanatory statement to make a mention of guaranteeing the whole of human rights, as equality was considered a basic condition for democracy, and was not estimated. We also wanted to establish greater guarantees regarding the punitive nature of some breaches, some sanctions. A more explicit definition of sexist violence. And good a few more questions. I therefore, well, the position we are going to defend as a group is going to be abstention. Obviously we are not going to stand against this text, because, among other things, we have seen it necessary and have demanded it insistently from the Government. I wanted to conclude by pointing out that the work has been very intense, it has been an intense work with many meetings. As I said, the result, in our view, on some issues has become too declaratory. A more gruesome text. But well, in the end we obviously have a text. I, finally, do want to thank you, because apart from the legitimate political positions that we have defended the people that we have participated in the presentation. It's been a lot of meetings. I believe that we have inherited an example, an example of being able to move forward on a fundamental issue such as equality of men and women in Euskadi, and we have been able to park many issues in order to give priority to progress on equality at all times. And I would like to express my gratitude for the work of Leixuri, Maitane, Gloria, Oihana and Isabel. I believe that in the end there is work and it is reflected in the differences that, as I say, we can each have in a final text on the amendment of the Equality Act. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. Gonzalez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chief physician, President, congressmen, guests. Today we face the first of the legislative reforms that were pending in the last legislature. For us it is no coincidence that it is the reform of the Equality of Men and Women Act of Euskadi that inaugurates the calendar of outstanding debts. And we are not indifferent, because this reform has its origin in recognizing that in Euskadi, as in any part of the planet, the right of all women to a life free of violence is systematically violated. And the biggest human rights violation we all face. Una de cada cuatro. Una de cada cuatro. He's a cyphra insoportable. And if it isn't for anyone in this chamber, it's part of the problem. Because to normalize that number, even to consider it normal, is violence. Violence is assuming a subordinate position that needs women to earn less. Not recognizing the work we do, nor what it means that we take care in a majority way. Nor giving dignity and recognition to our reproductive work, nor to the productive. Such inequality is sustained only through violence and to keep us in an unequal position. The patrician supports violence against women, and the patrician has taken life from the centre, and the interest of the market has placed it in its place. One in four means that a few of us in this chamber have been assaulted on our way home. I'm sure all of us have felt fear ever coming home. How many of us have had on our mobile a message prepared with one: "I'm fine, I'm fine. Thank you, girls." How painful that fear unites us. Gutako lautik batek ondotxo daki zer da lanean beldurra sentitzea. Hitz egiteko beldurra sentitzea, weretzuteko beldur iziza, erasotzen says a kidearekin Bakarrik geratzeko beldurra, salatzeko beldurra because it becomes more violent. I fear it will harm your children, your daughters, your environment, because it seeks to harm you. Make you feel alone, make you lose hope. And fear is and is because there is violence. It's not just a feeling, it's a reaction to a situation. Our life is not safe. One in four is the result of life's unsustainability, and is the result of toxic masculinity and care-bound femininity. Eta ez, Euskadi ez from the oasis bat. We found out this same week that a woman in Barakaldo has been attacked by sex. In Toulouse, there's someone else in Gasteo. Official data reminds us that far from getting stronger from this pandemic, we are witnessing an increase in complaints of sexual violence or the risk of social exclusion and impoverishment. It affects in a concentrated way single-maritime families, foreign women and young women. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita bet for placing the fight for equality... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... single-maritime families, foreign women and young women. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is committed to placing the fight for equality and against Machist violence at the centre of the work we do in the institutions. Elkarrekin We can it a dakagu zer jarra eduki behar dugun indarkeria matxistaren aurrean. For this reason, we have committed ourselves to the work of this law, echoing feminist praxis, betting on collective work, prioritizing consensus against dissent, to launch a common message to Basque society: that in the area of the protection and promotion of women's rights we will not take a step backwards. Indarkeria matxisten aurkako borroka giza eskubideen kontua dellako. And we believe that this reform is necessary. And we consider it because it consolidates obligations and policies already laid down by the Istanbul Convention. Espresuki aetortzen of umeak, nerabeak eta emakume transsexualak indarkeria matxisten biktimak say it. Orphaned sons and daughters will be victims of macho violence, and this is one of the great achievements of this law. And I, honestly, get excited just by saying it. No prior complaint will be required to access benefits. We can't be impoverished by sexist violence. In this text the observation of the equality of Eucharists arises. The right to reconciliation of personal, family and work life is also recognized. And the obligation of the public authorities to provide universal and public care. He drowns care for us while he frees them. And this must change. March 3rd today in Gasteiz. The memory and its importance. Women as memory builders. This is also in this law. Memoriaren was indarkeriaren biktimen oinarrizko eskubide gisa ulertzekoa da. This reform reflects that assaults and murders by partners or ex-partners, sexual assaults, female genital mutilation, trafficking, sexual harassment at work, vicarious violence or institutional violence are understood as expressions of structural violence. There must be an adequate response from the institutions to all of them. Horrek esan nahi du instituzioek bermatu behar dutela indarkeriarik gabeko bizitza edukitzeko eskubidea izasi. Horregatik, guztiagatik, bayezko boto emango diogo lege ereforma honi, arduragatik. For consistency, we bet on this law. We have left our skins to incorporate some proposals that improve it. Could it be better? Of course. Is that a good law? Absolutely. We have managed to increase the budget for equal policies from 1 to 1.5% of the total budget of the autonomous community. Halaber, in the white of the lurid hour the sabaia iz ez dadin, baizik eta aurrekontua and have igotzen joateko bulldozer bat. And we have also managed to include for the first time in the autonomous regulations the prohibition of the eradication of parental alienation syndrome, SAP, or any pseudo-scientific theory that denies the right of children to be heard. Elkarrekin We can-Iurentzat berebiziko lorepena from the law Honetan gurasoen alienazia sindromearen dedekua sartzea. Urrats handia da, éta erakundeek gigatu behar duten ereparazioan. Because it is also recognizing that it has failed, that a myth has been credited, that of the manipulative mother, and that women, boys and girls have been revictimized when they needed more support. For their struggle, for the struggle of these mothers, and for the institutional violence they have endured, we are also pleased that this remains in the law. We have also left specific measures for some collectives. Let us be honest, not all women are equal, and there are those who suffer racism, xenophobia, LGBTIphobia, anti-Gyptanism, sinogarism. Eskubide guztiak emakume guztientzat eta guztiekin. The specialized Zurekin service is also consolidated, a permanent support and counselling service for victims of male violence in the judicial environment. They cannot and must not make the way alone. Accompaniment without guardianship. We also leave in this law specialized training for the entire administration in the care, detection, protection and reparation of sexist violence. And we say yes because this reform is a vehicle for strengthening policies in Euskadi that we are developing from the Ministry of Equality, such as the creation of 24-hour crisis centres for victims of sexual violence. Unfortunately, there are issues that also remain outside this law, which is how to adapt the social, health and educational sphere to the eradication of sexist violence, or also, for example, the establishment of the Gender Impact Commission within the Treasury, or to carry out gender audits to assess budgets. In this regard, we still do not find the support of the parties that support the Government to understand that, as in social spending, spending on equality is not worth asking for by weight. It is a legal duty and it is an ethical duty to know whether what we invest in policies to eradicate inequality is effective or not. And this law is also limited in the advancement of sexual and reproductive rights. Osasunean, bath bath hezkuntzan ere, age sexuality eta gorputz autonomy was abbat joustzeko neuroriak behar dira. I am pleased to be able to say that at the point of this plenary session we will be discussing abortion, we have reached an agreement. Obstetric violence is out, raising, postpartum, menstruation as taboo, comprehensive sex education. Nancy Fraser warned us that going back to the trenches is not an option. We cannot conform to the law we had or try not to lose what we gained from this reform. We've had a lot of trouble getting here. Feminist alliances between forces with presence in institutions are urgent. But for that, it is not enough to formulate it; above all, above all, we must practice it. And on March 8th, we all went out to celebrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u9	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. First of all, I have a welcome welcome to all the members of the collective feminis, and to the women who have come from all the institutions, both from the Emention and from the Biscay, and from the Lady Foru and from the Directors. I would also like to begin my speech by sending my message of encouragement and support to all the Ukrainian people, especially those women who are fleeing the war, taking responsibility, in many cases, for their sons and daughters. It is likely that many people have been surprised that it is I, a man, who comes out to defend the Equality Act. And it's normal, but I thought it was absolutely necessary. Today I rise to this rostrum far beyond any institutional or organic office. I go up to this rostrum as a feminist man, convinced and practicing. Pushed by the struggle and the treasure of so many companions that every day, for years, they have worked to achieve equality between men and women. They're the ones who brought us here. They have worked and fought for a good text, a consensus text. And above all, a feminist and transformative law. A law that will change a reality where inequality persists. Something we're not strangers to in Euskadi. From them I have learned that feminism is theory, movement, thought, but above all it is action. And that's this equality law. Today we take a very important step. With this law, we place more resources to fight violence of genera and to protect victims, especially minors. To resist the cracker pay, and to promote the interaction of different institutions in favor of equality. It is an important day, therefore, that the majority of this legislature unites to build a just and equalized people. And we have to turn that agreement into a lever. This law is passed at a time when we are still suffering from the effects of the pandemic. A pandemic that has put us in front of the mirror as a society. A mirror that has demonstrated the theory of the feminist economy, the need to put life at the center, the need to change the social organization of care - as Victoria Camps says - and to do everything, absolutely everything, with a feminist look. That is why this law is more necessary than ever, because we need new tools and good tools to face the challenges we face as a society. It's already been said. We had a good Equality Act of 2005, but it required adapting it to the new national and international legal-regulatory reality: the Istanbul Convention; the UN Sustainable Development Goals by 2030 on which we Socialists draw up our electoral agenda, which are now at the heart of this Government's agenda; the 2017 State Pact against Gender Violence; and a good number of other rules to which the explanatory statement refers. This amendment also includes important advances in the consideration of violence against women, such as the expression of maximum inequality between men and women, and other manifestations of inequality such as the wage gap, the feminization of poverty or the lesser representation in decision-making bodies. A law that promotes the equal training of public authorities and the protection of minors from gender-based violence. I will not go into details because it has already been done, but I would like to highlight an idea. The Basque Socialists defend a project of full equality, which reinforces the economic and social role of women. Over the past few years, we have made much progress in equality policies, especially in the political sphere, with laws promoted by socialists in Spain and in the Basque Country, but there is still much to be done to achieve full equality in socio-economic participation. Despite the current legislation, the wage gap has a female face, because it is women who continue to be most responsible for the family - both ascendants and descendants. They are the ones who demand the most time cuts and the ones who suffer the most discrimination in the selective processes. This is precisely one of the elements that combats the recent approved labour reform, although some of the parties present here refuse to support it. The Law against Gender Violence, promoted by a socialist government, has increased protection for women, but has not prevented this threat from being perpetuated. That's why it's important to keep moving forward. It is very important to keep moving forward. It is important not to lower the guard at any time. We need to push equality policies. We must insist on their transversality. And this law does, because half of the population you are women have the right to be taken into account in all areas of policy and administration, for social justice, but above all for country decency. Because one thing I have clear, we do not all rule in the same way, because some rule against women. And we have to say, some rule against women, while others always do so on an equal footing. Some of us passed the Dependency Act, valued the work of caring for dependents in the home - more than three million women began to contribute to it - while others did not take a year to dismantle all that. Some reduced dismissal, imposed temporaryity and precarious employment; others adopted labour reforms that dignify conditions, guarantee indefinite employment and consolidate rights for women workers in this country. Some counter-reformed pensions to engage with women - the group with the least accumulated rights, and thus with the lowest pensions -; others we raise pensions, especially the lowest, non-contributory and widow's pensions... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...and, therefore, with the lowest pensions. Others raised pensions, especially the lowest: non-contributory pensions and widowhood pensions; approved minimum living income; reversed cuts in the parties to combat gender-based violence, or buried the counter-reform of the abortion law to guarantee women's rights. That's our seal. That's our identity. That is the way we socialists work for equality. That is precisely our commitment to equality. This one that we adopt today, therefore, is our equality law. It is also our equality law. We have data, and we've been told over and over again that there's an exotic difference in our society that women put in after men: Watch pattern, digital pay cut... Our everyday reality always causes women to step after − or two−, which is not allowed. And above all these, the violent machita of violence. Some deny it, but today it was denied it. Every day, and every day, and growing louder, we hear this intolerable reality, a dangerous speech which doubts it, and as I have said in this parliament. This is why it is important to talk about it, and to try to change it, with this law, with the co-ordination of all the institutions, and with greater resources. That's what we're doing here today, and that's what we'll be doing from tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u10	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseowner.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u11	Thank you, good morning. Welcome to all of our friends. On March 3rd, 1976, the mummies, the watches, the dead, the tearful tears, all the gastesians who will continue to create life and struggle, especially all these women, −, goodbye. We're just because you were there. Even when we are at the last snare of a law which aims at equality, we claim to be able to do all men, their lives in peace, in the country they choose, and with those whom they love: A tight hug to the village in the Ukraine. We have reached the end of the trial of renewing the equality of laws, and no doubt today will be a special day of importance. But, to begin with, I want to look back, to confess the work of all the people who had been present in this affair: the contribution of all who participated in it, the occurrences, the inscriptions... they have been indispensable to this point. As a privilege to learn from the reflection of so many people, to know the work of all the people in close order, to be within the Basque Country, to reflect upon it, and especially the relationship of a group of feminisic movements, unions, women in many departments. A thousand meetings, e-mails, calls, walks... Thank you all. As I said on the board, that we have passed through the law's pomp, which has contributed, or have been discussed in ponciency, we are distinguished by the representations of equality, and by the observations we make of feministic politics, but we have a very clear account, very present, which has been very present; We live in a machista society, women in a secondary system that wants and needs them. This still makes women cross different levels of violence, and we know that we need laws to prevent it, that we need institutional resources, budgets, and, of course, many feminisms: In the street, at home, in bed, at work, and in institutions. That joins us. And listen carefully: We are the majority. We even said that we already acknowledge all the work we've done in this law, but that we're going to abstain from it because we felt a few absences. And I will explain that point of view. Some of our important amendments have been admitted: for example, as long as it is a subcontradiction in feminised labors, and this is one of the operators of the pay, it required by social clauses to find a way to deal with it. And at this moment, of course, the IMQ laminators had announced yesterday about the verdict against the mass disorder: Congratulations. The struggle of all these working women is ours, and we see each achievement as an achievement for women's rights. So, congratulations, but, above all, thank you. On the other hand, digital violence, institutional, and obstetrical violence were required to be identified as a machista of violence, and so it was, without discussion, without discussion. The last thing I want to say has been to continue to serve psychologically as social services. To include all this, to admit of several other corrections, the contributions of the other groups, and all the changes already produced by the law itself, must be observed in the machista section of the machista of violence, we think that the law is strengthened from 2005, and that there are, we say, but we have, in our opinion, some points to which this historical moment asks for strength, which are very obvious to us, and which we see as a loss of choice. All that relates to Diligcia debida or proper attention hasn't been seen. For us, it is especially necessary, that as we are exposed to a law which public institutions and authorities have developed, when they do not attend to the execution of their laws and the preservation of their women, they establish contrivances to resist it. Mechanism forces them to establish this legal term, and it is a road which is taking place in so many texts and modern conclusions. It's essential to face the institutional violence. The proper attentions in this law are structured... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... It's the way it's going on in a legal way. It's essential to face the institutional violence. A proper attention, in this law, to take care of the institutional structure, supposes the production of a site, and the establishment of care; The course of steps in order to penetrate the ranks of the techniques of equality, of equality, must have been more accurate, and the executive mind. We know that to achieve feminist transformations we need a three-way: the feminist movement which makes this claim and struggle to the exercise, to the rights and the laws. And when the institution is free, we must prevent the rights, prevent the proper mechanism of attention, so that there will be no more interruptions, so as not to be hindered from learning in a school, and in order to ensure the freedom of what it pleases, so that no further limit can be made to the demands which are the victims of the machista. Even amongst the remarkable attentions of the Institutions, the budgets are also established, and, alas, the proposals which we introduced have not even been seen; We demanded a line line line of budgets, 1,5 of which is to be classed as big as total, and the number of men to oppose the services of the machista's victims, such laws as this, in order to get ahead, all of us know that means and contrivances are required. To conclude, we want to emphasise an idea: we are continually talking about a crisis in which we are involved, a watch on the women's shoulders, whether it be due, whether it be due, that women are impoverished, dissected, and the most important instruments to continue to remain within the role which they wish to be established to us. Hence, at the moment, we believe that this law ought to take a bolder step. We are in the presence of a law which we hope to have a 10-15 year's duration, and therefore we made the means of changing the measures in the pre-precised sector, the distribution of domestic works, the means of resisting it from pretty societies, and many others. And since we have not seen all this possible in the law, we tend to abstain from it, especially if I should like to mention that the proposals we made concerning domestic labours have no place. This pre-ractal, domesticated, and invaded area must have been more visible and more bold, we believe. We've introduced ourselves to confess the social value of guarding, which is very important, but now we think it's time for demonstrations. We need a law that will be placed in the direction of demeritization and demeritization, because we are impoverished by the system which is built on the back of women, or according to the interests of the market. From being a fool in the centre of life, we must now establish the measures to become reality. Now we must say that we are in the state of collapse. And with efficiency and courage we must step forward by strengthening a public system, including the rest. We need a law that puts itself in the direction of defamiliarization and demercantilization, instead of continuing to leave responsibility on women's backs, and that is built, or built, according to the interests of the market, as this impoverishes us as a society. We must take steps effectively and courageously, reinforcing, inter alia, a public care system. Therefore we shall appeal to this law, that we like what is repeated again, that we shall do our duty, that we may share, divide, divide all kinds of labour, contributions, and means to make it work. But as the gaps he looks forward to are involuntary, even when the concrete practice is started, we'll work to open more doors. My heart, and my pride, I want to end as I began. Leixuri, Gloria, Lovene, Isa, Laura, thanks, heartfelt. Those who opened the road to us who had joined themselves in the mud of the sticky floor, to those who had cracked glass bells, to those who were not killed by the children of the patricians, to those who were not near them, and to those who pursued them, will be better, because the feminist revolution has not been turned back. Gora borroka feminist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, friends, good days to all. On the 8th of March, when thousands of eupscal women go out into the street to demand real effective equality, they'll come out under a new legal umbrella. Unfortunately, the situation will not be much changed, since injustice and discrimination are still a part of our everyday existence; and many others. But on that day, on March 8th, 2022, we shall have a powerful legal tool to approach all the more universal rights we all have: Right to equality of treatment. Without this new scope of law, the road would be longer and more difficult. With this we take a very important step: We're going in the right direction. It may not be enough; it will never do so long as a single woman is killed, threatened, or despised, as long as she is a woman. As long as women and men don't have the same options and rights in their homes, public or leisure. We have to keep working while that comes. But I hope that day's coming before it's too late. Living in a fair, respectful, free society... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... I hope I'm here before it's too late. In a just society we may be able to say that we live in a society of equal, respectful, and free. In the meantime, the institution, party, social activity, and all the agents of the community are to be continued to work, to continue to strengthen the means we have, to enlarge our assistance, and assist all other women and other persons who are under their control. It is necessary that we should increase the efforts of equality and of the possibility of woman's power, and that we have acted on it in the last few years in this legislature. It has been a long way, but despite resistance, we may say today that it is happy, and we can say that joy and emotion are shared. I really think it's been a very nice job, because we've worked for a partner that the subject demands. Sometimes we've agreed, sometimes we don't. But every one may have defended and shared his arguments. We've been dealing with confidence. I would say sisterly, too, because we worked from will and sensibility. The members of the legislature who have spoken before me, and also the chief members of the department, have already given a number of innovations of the new law. So I want to thank you this time of my life. I'd like to thank love, lovene Ipiñazarri, Gloria Sanchezi, the Forest to Housebareta, Elisabet Gonzini and Laura Garridini. And because we all accept a good law today. I don't want to forget all the collective, movement, and women who tried to participate in this job. This whole process has been a very rich one. And I can't forget the support given by the gift, because it's essential for the party I represent. Thank you very much. And for allowing the chief physician, and the government, the President, to oblige and confirm the engagement to the equality of the Basques, thank you. Thank you, everyone. Today, we are introducing a rule which is the result of a shared work of agreement and negotiation. This rule will establish the whole course we have done in the field of equality. To-day we praise this path again, and it will go on for new generations, if the future is better and the same. At this point, I would also like to point out that, as the institutions of this country had legal frameworks to protect women, society has also taken steps. There's a social change going on. Changes in education, changes in the language we use, changes in our businesses, also in our homes and in our family and friends and friends, changes in our gang. It's a revolution in progress, there's more and more consciousness, but as I said before, we have a way to go. And on that path, institutions and society go hand in hand without cracks. Laws are very important, yes, but so is social awareness, that of women and also that of men. We need to know that this job we have to do together and together. Today, I repeat, it is an important day, a milestone, as it was when in 2005 we passed the Law for the Equality of Women and Men. He took one before and one after in public policy. It was a pioneering norm and a benchmark in gender mainstreaming in all spheres of life. But it has been 17 years and we needed a new regulatory framework to further improve the institutional response to discrimination and violence still experienced by women today. The law we pass today will be key to strengthening the positioning of violence against women as the highest expression of gender inequality. Physical attacks, verbal attacks, threats, coercion, control, are attitudes that deserve the most absolute rejection. Attitudes which we condemn and which we must make visible, and which deserve as long as they persist, of all the support, help, awareness and prevention that we can give. These last days we have lived new (?) episodes in our localities. It was mentioned by my companions, Barakaldo, Tolosa and Gasteiz. Locations that have raised their voice to say loud and clear that they have us in front of them, and that we will not tolerate a single aggression of this kind. But this is the reality we have, a Euskadi in which not all people live free and without fears, a Euskadi in which there is inequality. All of this demands and forces us to continue to promote policies that prevent education in values of equality and respect at all stages of life. This is the spirit of this new law. To admit this law is more necessary, necessary, and necessary than ever. Although some people don't think the same way, and thank God they think that there's a minority in this attic. Officially, 4,177 women have suffered gender-based violence in 2020 in Euskadi. You can't look away. Jarrai's disappointed in the bidea. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answering shift, the Misthusite member will not speak a word. A Basque Popular Group-Ciudados, anyone here who wants to get a word? Together, Podemos, yes, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u15	Thank you. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have faced this reform with responsibility and conscience. We have devoted time and affection to it, it has allowed us to make many contrasts with people who are close to our political space, but also with other more distant ones. And many of the contributions we have incorporated through amendments, all defended with interest, although many have been left out. We didn't do the easiest job, the fastest, not the most comfortable. Starting from the crew of discussions, putting the subject on the table to the formal meetings of power, where the idea... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... It's not even the most comfortable. From the beginning of the discussion, placing the subject on the table, to the formal meeting of poncince, where we formed many ideas. It's been a long year's job, almost a weekly one, and a good tone. I want you to listen to me, and I want to show you how to learn. I have not observed in my experience of the legislature that any other law of legislation has followed a similar process. And it's very kind of you. It's nice of the members of the law: Leixuri the Arribalga, Lovene Ipizar, Gloria Sánchez and the Forest Houseer and Laura Garrido. Thank you. Eskertu behar gives to the assistants, from which we have learned so much; to the administrative and legal team of Parliament, to the translators who help us with the whole process; to the technical team of Emakunde and the department, who have also clarified many doubts; to my colleagues working in Parliament, especially Lana González and Laura Yanguas; to my colleagues, to Miren and Gustavo, who replaced me during the drop in the papers; to the feminists of our space, of our political group, of Podemos and of the United Left, for the days of contrast and support throughout the process of law reform and their representatives who accompany me today from the rostrum. Dena den, nahiz eta gaur hemen legaren ereformari ematen diogun babesa defendzen ari garan, ez dogu hori puntu eta maiera gisa ulertu nahi. Because this reform, however necessary we must see it, without a single political commitment to each of the articles that we are voting on here today, if the gender perspective is not applied from the administrations and, above all, if it is not provided with sufficient human and budgetary resources, it is not going to be enough. And in this, it is essential to keep the feminists in force, to talk to feminist movements, and even to commit to making changes in the ways of politics. Because Euskadi is a feminist and we won't stop until all his public policies are feminist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists. Someone's word... ? No. [[Pause]] The discussion's over and we'll start the vote. In the first place, technical corrections are divided, and if there is no opposition, I approve of them. [[Pause]] Everybody ready? I accept technical corrections without vote. They're going to vote together for the articles of the project reserved by the Basque Groups of Popular-Canos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 6; the opponents, 68; Absences, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u17	So they didn't accept it. They're going together to vote together with Podemos-Nozzer teams reserved for 9, 37, and 42th corrections for the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the opponents, 47; abstainments, 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u18	So they didn't accept it. They're going to vote together with Podemos-Nozzer made by the other articles of judgment reserved by the Animal Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opponents, 47; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u19	So they didn't accept it. Next, they shall vote together for the articles of the judgment reserved by the EH Collectors. You can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 47; abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u20	They weren't allowed. Next, they vote together with the articles of the judgment which they have been correcting. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; the opposites are 1. Abstations, 27; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u21	So they're accepted. The rest of the articles and regulations of the judgment that have not been corrected together are put to the vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; the opposites are 1. Abstations, 27; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u22	They're approved. He's going to vote together for the explanation of the reserved corrections of the Basque Popular-Canos team. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 6; the opponents, 68; Absences, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u23	So they didn't accept it. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; the opposites are 1. Abstations, 27; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u24	So it's accepted. And therefore the Law of making a second change of the Law of Women, and the Equality of Men, is approved. [[Applause]] Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of the Parliamentary Union, concerning the responsibilities which Martín Villa has committed to the crime of vancism. Discipline and final resolution. It's the leader of the proposed team, representing the EH Collect Group, Mr. Arzuga has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u25	Good morning, ma'am. Thank you very much. "Todo se lo debo a Franco." Rodolfo Martín Villa's words. We've all got his image in mind, making good-by-bye a fascist. In 1975, the civil governor of Barcelona and head of movement, when it was the shooting of the Parades Minor. The next year he was a minister of unions on March 3, 1976, Gastea, the Spanish police, Pedro Maria Martínez Ocio, Francisco Aznar, Romuldo Barrso, Jose Castillo and Bivendo Perea, killed 150 more people besides. After this the police killed two other people: Viente Anton, the Wilder, and Juan Gabriel Rodrigo, Tarragon. As was boasted then, a police officer in the internal broadcasts after carrying out more than 1,000 shots, gassing and beating the crowd that crowded the church of Zaramaga neighborhood, here there has been a massacre, we have contributed to the greatest beating in history. A massacre, a beating that would remain unclarified in material and political responsibilities. In view of these facts, the Amnesty Act adopted the following year offered the effective framework of impunity as a true final point law for crimes against humanity of Francoism. From a franchise with which he did not want to break, but helped to move on to the current regime. A terrorist dictatorship whose crimes were not investigated, whose atrocities were not clarified, whose perpetrators were not cleared, whose criminal, administrative or political responsibilities were covered. 'Esscal institutions have induced that responsibility to be taken.' That can't be denied. At the request of the General Assembly of the Arababa, the Araban Fordal Foru, and even the Gastei City, presented a court of penalties against humanity in front of the province of the Abaraba, which had been committed by the Friancism apparatus. However, the Arbata hearing decided to file kerella. The appeal of the Constitutional Court granted to the Tramit. It was also observed that the chance of appeal to the Human Rights of Europe was rejected, because the authors of the Kereinians were public institutions, not individuals, and... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... the occasion of the strike, but this expedient was rejected, because the authors of the smoking were public institutions, not individuals, and the appeal would not have made way before the Court of Strassburg. Again, the judicial course is now in the first square: victims must start from zero. The want of influence on the Spanish courts has left two of March to maintain justice, that is to say, to pursue the course of universal justice. The Euskal institutions, beginning this legislature, have protected the first Federal courts of the Republic of Argentina, in which Judge Servini is ruled, even in the case of the case. Hence, from this Assembly of Laws, from the Commission of Human Rights, proceed a Decree (at present? ), to help the victims of March 3, to make the exhibition, and also to interview Judge Servini. Judge Servini decided the selection against Rodolfo Martín Villa on the 15th of October 2021, driven by four critical murders in a context of crimes against humanity, among which three workers of Gastian massacre are found. In the same car, he was able to open the diligence for the investigation of the other eight murders. Asked about these very serious accusations, instructed by the Magistrate of Maria Servini, for those 12 aggravated murders in a context of crimes against humanity, last January 17, at a breakfast organized by the press, Mr. Rodolfo Martín Villa boasted that I could be the political and also the criminal responsible for those deaths. I don't know if these words responded to the fine irony of the untouchable one who gives him absolutely everything because he knows he is unpunished. Perhaps he wanted to turn his back on the process before universal justice. He was also indirectly mocking his victims. Or perhaps, in its overwhelming literality, it was a self-incrimination, a self-incrimination, a truth like a scorching one, because, yes, everyone knows that he was the political and criminal responsible for that massacre. But knowing the truth to institutionally recognize the truth goes a long way. And institutional recognition of the truth to give justice is still an immensity. During his three years as Minister of Government, dozens of deaths were committed by police and para-police groups throughout the State. Here are known, cases, names, experiences, people like Normi Mentxaca, Josu Zabala, Rafael Gómez Jauregi, Clemente del Caño, José Luis Cano, Gregorio Maritxalar, Luis Santamaría, Manuel Fuentes, Francisco Javier Núñez, Kepa Josu Etxandi, Felipe Suarez, Gonzalo Pequeño, Efrén Torres, José Emilio Fernández, Felipe Carro, Diego Alfaro, Francisco Caballero, Mikel Arregi, and, how not, among them, the events of March 3, 1976 or those of San Fermín of 1978. "You don't mind killing" there, in Iruña, another cop. Because no, it didn't matter to kill in Martin Villa's transition. Faced with such a curriculum, Servini says in his car, and I read textually: "All the repressive structure mounted by the Franco regime continued to function under the direction now of the new political diligence in charge of the transition process. During the first years, the norms, structures, agents and repressive practices of the latter were maintained, and the impunity of their actions by all means was assured to the law enforcement authorities." Demolition. I believe that this paragraph of Judge Servini's order is the best X-ray of the Spanish transition that can be made. However, Martín Villa refuses, refuses to accept this thesis. He stated that there was no systematic, deliberate and widespread plan to eliminate the political adversary. Of course, there was a systematic attack on certain sectors opposing the transition. According to the complainant, he replied, the lawyer for the Francoism crime platforms grouped in CeAQUA, Jacinto Lara, shortly afterwards in a press conference. This thesis cannot be defended before the Spanish courts and cannot be brought to justice. Therefore, the only possibility left to the victims of crimes against humanity in the 1976 Gasteiz trial or events is the Argentine trial. Villa referred to this process as "a kafkian show, mounted from here." Quite a statement of principles, because universal justice for this character is a Kafkian spectacle. And perhaps paraphrasing his mentor, in his delirium, is the international Marxist Jewish-masonic contubernium. And it is that before the blind eyes and deaf ears of Spanish justice, the victims of Martín Villa have only left to go to the other end of the globe to exercise rights that like Francoist crimes must be imprescriptible. Faced with these words of the French geriatrics, the victims of March 3 have felt, of course, humiliated. Andoni Txasko - for all known and recognized - asked: "What less than a few words to the victims he caused". In that sense, there is no empathy, regret or anything like that. Nerea Martínez, a family member of Pedro Martínez Ocio, claimed: "We know that Martín Villa, aged 89, is not going to go to jail, but if the judge names those responsible, it will begin to know the truth and to clarify that that was a state crime." Again, some victims are forced to give up punishments and punishments to... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... That was a state crime. Again, some victims are forced to give up punishments and punishments in order to focus on obtaining at least a little truth and justice. There are a great number of popular initiatives here today to remember the Gaste name, the massacre, and to demand justice and truth. Today, on the other side of this legislature, as every year, with the annual anniversary of the murder committed by the Spanish police, the movement, the associations, the unions, and in general the citizens will protect the families of the five murdered workers and the wounded more than 100. To-day, in the streets of Gastine, from the entire Basque Country, but also from Catalonia, Madrid, Asturia, Valcia, to reveal delegation for truth and justice. Many political institutions, public institutions, agree with the demand for the victims' memory, and we thought with this spirit that this initiative must also be brought to this legislature, that day of the victims of the 3th of March. I don't know what's going to happen to the vote today, but I don't know what's going to be the result of this initiative, and we'll both cover the rights for the future of the Podemos. But I'm surprised, at least from the parties that promote the government, that have not introduced corrections. This government favors truth, for justice, favors memory, manifests itself against the crimes of franchise, has brought a law for historical memory, and I hope that today I may not forget the victims or the victims. I guess he can't stand it in front of this statement today. Let us therefore proceed from this institution, which is also in our power in the legislature, that the victims of March 3, 46 years later, will continue to give us light. Pedro Martíez Ocio, Francisco Aznar, Romudo Barrso, José Castillo, Berevendo Pereda, eternal light.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u27	Thank you, ma'am. First of all, on a day as marked as today, 3 March here, in Gasteiz, transfer all solidarity, affection, the memory of our coalition, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, with the victims of 3 March, or starting with the victims of 3 March, but making it extendable to all the victims of the Franco dictatorship from the early dawn of the fascist uprising of 1936 until the last murders committed at the end of the dictatorship, and also including some murders committed subsequently to the 1978 Constitution by some residues of the previous dictatorial regime, and to all the victims, hundreds of thousands of victims, during those long dark years of dictatorship. And perhaps they say why this parliamentarian alludes to the hundreds of thousands of victims of the dictatorship in such a long period of time, in the face of a concrete debate on the victims of 3 March here in Gasteiz. For we think that precisely the statements of Rodolfo Martín Villa on which he also pours the initiative presented by Mr Arzuaga, what they claim is to deny that systematic plan, deliberate and generalized, that policy of state that existed in the Franco dictatorship, for the elimination of political opposition and for the opposition, for the elimination of the workers' opposition and of the trade union opposition, that during... especially in the last years of the dictatorship, the last decade of the dictatorship, was the vanguard of the struggle against the dictatorship. It is the denial, therefore, of the crimes against humanity, in order to avoid justice, which obliges international law, and which is sought with the fights. Martín Villa's statements reduce Francoist crimes to isolated and unrelated cases in order to avoid precisely the application of international law, which they force or should force our laws. Crimes against humanity and genocide refer to the systematic and planned persecution of groups on the grounds of race, religion or political status. The persecution of political dissent was systematic and responded to the planned will of the dictatorship. And one of the collectives to whom these crimes were directed was the Labour Movement organized and illegalized by the dictatorship. And in that context, the crimes of 3 March are placed. In January 1976, nearly 6,000 women workers started a strike in Vitoria in defence of their working conditions. Two months later, they called for the third time a general strike that was massively followed here in Gasteiz. During the strike day, the armed police charged against the workers who were locked up in the Church of San Francisco de Assisi, in the working-class neighborhood of Zaramaga. He shot himself to death. The police charge left five dead and more than 150 gunshot wounds. The result was nothing other than the murder of demonstrators and the impunity of the agents who committed such... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...and more than 150 gunshot wounds. The result was nothing other than the murder of demonstrators and the impunity of the agents who committed such crimes and also of the political leaders of such crimes. The increase in the anti-Franchist protest in those years was vehicularized during those last decades mainly, as I said, by the labor and trade union movement. And, therefore, there was a substantial increase in strikes and, in parallel, a regime response with a repressive spiral, which intensified and which reached the declaration of states of emergency of 1969 and 1970. In July 1970 the police killed in Granada the marmolist Cristóbal Ibáñez Encinas and the masons Manuel Sánchez Mesa and Antonio Huertas Remigio, who participated in the mobilizations for the strike of the construction sector. In '71 Pedro Patiño, a member of my union and my party, was killed in Madrid. Their crime: handing out pamphlets in front of a construction strike. A civilian guard decided to put an end to that shooting. A month later Antonio Ruiz Villalba, a worker of the SEAT company, was killed by the police in Barcelona, where there was a mobilization of solidarity with several incarcerated strikers. While the Farsa judges, as part of the regime, closed farsa trials, Francoist terror against the workers' militancy continued to cross the map in a deliberate and politically directed manner. In March of 72 the turn came to Amador Rey and Daniel Niebla, two Galician workers killed while participating in a demonstration in Ferrol to ask for improvements in the agreement of the shipyards of Bazan. A year and a month later, in April of 73, the police ended the life of another worker, Manuel Fernández Márquez, during a labor protest in Barcelona. Neither were those responsible for the murder of Vicente Antón Ferrero during the demonstration, some days after the events of Vitoria Gasteiz in Basauri, were and have been punished. In this context there was another dead, murdered, 19-year-old Juan Gabriel Rodrigo, who died trying to escape the fierce police repression in Tarragona. The following year, 1977, another year of brutal repression by the Franco regime deliberately against the workers' movement and political dissent, that year began on 23 January when an ultra-right group killed the young anti-fascist Arturo Ruiz in a proamnist demonstration. The next day the sociology student Maria Luz Najera was killed. And then, as we all know, the lawyers of Atocha, also comrades of my union and of my party, are murdered. And in 1978, the murder of Germán Rodríguez took place in those San Fermines. These are just some of the names, they are not all names, of systematic repression, organized against specific groups for political reasons and for reasons, in this case, trade unions. That impunity remains intact. Those responsible for those killings have not been tried. And all those crimes were Franco-State politics and must be investigated and tried. In other words, there was widespread and systemic violence against a civil society group, the workers organized in this case. This is what Martin Villa denies. This is a key point, in our view. When there are crimes in the context of widespread violence against a civilian population group, there are crimes against humanity. And those crimes against humanity don't prescribe. However, we know that lawyers fighting in Spanish courts to try to open a way of justice often clash against an unbreakable wall. There's a monolithic response. The judges argue that these crimes, however excruciating they may be, cannot be tried because the Amnesty Act, the principle of legality and the statute of limitations of offences are applicable. In view of that argument, we must insist on the universal nature of the crimes against humanity that are imprescriptible. For more than 40 years, in our view, there has been a serious problem of non-application of laws as ordered by international law with the excuse or argumentation of a twisting interpretation of the Amnesty Act of 1977. Amnesties, in our view, cannot protect serious crimes against humanity, torture, war and against humanity. This has been established by international law for more than a century and various treaties signed even by Spain, which are obviously not being implemented. According to international law, there are crimes of genocide, torture, against humanity and war that cannot go unpunished, are imprescriptible and do not reach amnesty. Also, in our view, the principle of non-retroactivity of unfavourable criminal rules cannot leave these international crimes unpunished. Consequently, it cannot be allowed to go unpunished without whoever was responsible. The paradigm is the case of Nuremberg, the trial of the leaders of Nazism, which would have been impossible in the event of non-retroactivity. Therefore, we want to point out without complexes, one day like today, the post-Franchist bias of the judiciary, which explains that Spain is the only country of the West that has allowed impunity for the crimes committed by a dictatorship, in this case Franco's. In our view, there is a political problem, not just a legal one. Allowing impunity is a political option for those who can impose it, even if it has been coated with legal doctrine. That is why we agree with the initiative put forward by the EH Bildu group, and in particular with the penultimate point, which seems to us to be key. And that is why we have also made an additional amendment. We didn't want to distort the original initiative. An amendment so that Basque institutions can also bring to international justice what they can bring at the moment: the reports that exist with the accounts, with the descriptions of the victims of the dictatorship, so that that international justice can have better tools to carry out what, of course, we would like, and that is that justice is done... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... so that that international justice can have better tools to carry out what, of course, we would like, and is that justice be done. Today we ask her with the victims of 3 March, we also ask her with all the victims of the dictatorship.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u28	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing round the teams that don't run, Mistak, Mrs Martínnez, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. We are not surprised by the obsession of the left, even the one applauding bloody acts carried out by murderers of age, of pressing the judiciary, when their decisions do not please them. Only then do they cry out against injustice, against the inability of judges and prosecutors, against everything that moves. The crimes of ETA, Mr Arzuaga, have also been against humanity. Do you condemn them?, do you condemn them?, I ask. Today we are witnessing a new exercise in this regard. We have on the one hand what happened here on 3 March 1976, some unfortunate events that would deserve to be completely clarified, of course, as should be paid for by those responsible, totally agreed. But this does not allow any political party to play judges, to show no respect for the judicial decisions handed down, to remove heaven and earth not so that what happened and what were the personal responsibilities, but to condemn a certain person, in this case Rodolfo Martín Villa. I am not going to stand here either as a defender or as a popular prosecution of Martín Villa, because it is something that does not belong to us. But I do believe in the right to defend in this House the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, something you should not believe in. Archived complaints, rejected appeals, even the case opened in Argentina have a rather uncertain future, now pending, in addition to a cassation appeal, which will have to be seen how it is resolved. Yesterday we knew that the March 3 Association intends to reactivate the initial complaint for what happened that fatal day. Also to extend it to all crimes committed during franchising, so we only have to wait to see that the judges are resolved. But this leads us to the Amnesty Act adopted in 77, which was driven by the Communists, specifically by the Communist Party of Spain, and also adopted by a large majority of the House at the time, in which the PNV was also in charge with Arzallus, and carried out by the Government of Adolfo Suárez, with the aim of achieving social reconciliation between the Spanish. The left manipulates the history of our country and sells us a make-up and twisting vision of what happened, shaping it, for example, in a law of historical memory that more unmemory. And the left also wants to manipulate this Amnesty Law to its liking, that is, they want to nullify it for the franchise-related people who took care of it, but not for other people who also benefited from it, such as the murderous members of ETA. Remember, with the passage of this law, more than 200 years were released from prison, don't forget this data that makes you uncomfortable, right? The law must be the same for all, and as democrats that we are, it will be up to us only to respect each and every one of the judges' decisions, whatever they may be. That should be the decision of this Parliament, the unequivocal bet of all the people we sit here, not the indiscriminate hunting of people whose guilt has not been endorsed by any sentence. You have made here a boast of names of Francoism, and I could make many of those also that you and your friends committed. And I take this opportunity today to pay tribute to Ramón Doral Trabadelo, who was killed on 4 March 1991 by a lapa bomb placed in his vehicle. Do you also condemn these crimes, Mr. Arzuaga?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u30	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u31	Good morning, Madam President, Lehendakari, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. First of all, I would like to remind and pay tribute to the innocent victims of 3 March 1976 in Vitoria. I remember those terrible days, I was 15 years old and I remember them, lived here in this city, they really were. And I want, on behalf of my group, to send the families and victims, the victims who could continue to live, who were many, our solidarity and our condemnation of that criminal and unfortunate police action. With regard to the initiative proposed to us by Bildu, Prosecutor Arzuaga, they want to turn the Basque Parliament back into a quasi-judicial or judicial extension body, when the courts have either ruled and have ruled definitively, or are doing so. They have spoken, as everyone knows, and as has been recalled in Spain. We have talked about this many times, how the Amnesty Law was pronounced, which we have also talked about, and that is why no one has condemned Mr. Martín Villa, and now the Argentine courts are also ruling, which, from the proceedings of the number one Federal Criminal and Correctional Court of the Argentine Nation, by virtue of the complaint lodged in 2010 and admitted to court by Judge Servini, have had recent news. The number one Federal Criminal and Correctional Court of the Argentine Nation, dated 15 October 2021, issued a resolution. There they are not properly called processing cars. It issued a resolution, by which the trial was agreed, the pre-trial detention, which did not come into effect, and the embargo on Rodolfo Martín Villa's property, on the grounds that he was the mediated author of aggravated homicides. Well, in response to that resolution, by the self-defence of Mr. Martín Villa, Dr. Goldaracena appealed to the Second Chamber... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... Mr. Martín Villa's self-defence, Dr. Goldaracena appealed to the Second Chamber of the Federal Criminal and Correctional Chamber of the Argentine nation, composed of chamber judges Martín Iurzun, Roberto José Boico and Eduardo Guillermo Farah, who unanimously resolved on December 2, 21, what did they resolve?, revoke the piece appealed in all words, in all words, and it was a matter of appeal, that is, the prosecution, pre-trial detention and the seizure of property, and declare the lack of merit, that is, the lack of sufficient evidence or trials to prosecute or dismiss Rodolfo Martín Villa in relation to the facts described in the contested decision. It is also important to know that the decision handed down by the Chamber before which the appeal was lodged can be appealed by the plaintiffs to the so-called Supreme Court of the Argentine Nation, in which case Mr. Martín Villa could also appear, with his defence. Good. In law... Already somewhat commented on this situation in relation to the resolution of this Second Federal Chamber of Argentina, in criminal law the onus provandi or burden of proof is the basis of the presumption of innocence, a principle accepted by any legal system that respects human rights. It means that everyone is presumed innocent until proven guilty. That some here are already condemning people. Such presumption of innocence obviously admits evidence to the contrary. But what is relevant is that the accused bears the burden of such evidence, i.e. the accused does not have to prove his innocence as he departs from it. For the Argentine Chamber there is not enough objective evidence to prosecute Martín Villa for crimes against humanity, for genocide. Moreover, although the decision leaves the door open to the judge (Servini?) to further investigate the resolution, states: "The uncertainty of the legal qualification made by the judge when considering the accused as an author mediated by the domination of an organized apparatus of power without having sufficient justification to make such an assertion". The existence of an apparatus of power, at the full disposal of Martín Villa, has not been proved in the documents, which, by issuing orders to the police in this case, allows him to be considered as a mediated author of the facts investigated there, that says the resolution. In fact, what the Appeals Chamber questions in its resolution is that a crime against humanity can be talked about because there is no evidence of an attack, a widespread, systematic, concerted plan, sustained in time against a part of the local civilian population and there is no evidence of such an offence after more than six years of investigation. Argentina's justice would be incompetent to judge because there would be no application of the principle of universal jurisdiction and those inherent therein, such as those prohibiting amnesty or pardon and imprescriptibility. That is, according to the ruling of the chamber, the investigating judge would not have gathered the minimum evidentiary requirement so that we could talk about crimes against humanity. Data, such as the number of cases, the existence of common standards of the same enforcers, of a single approach, of certain State policies compatible with the alleged persecution, of the same practices, of the same methods of execution, of the same outcome, of the use of the same means, etc., etc. All this is pronounced by the Argentine High Court. In other words, the Federal Appeals Chamber requires that a connection be demonstrated between the facts and some form of policy and organized implementation of it in accordance with a plan emanating from the State itself or from an organization exercising control over a territory. This necessary connection, which the decision of the appeal calls "context factor", is absent from accreditation in the decision of the instructor (Servini?), in which with regard to the spinal element characterizing crimes against humanity, this standard has not been covered on the basis of objective, direct or indirect evidence, circumstances leading the chamber to reject the prosecution of Martín Villa, revoking it and the measures inherent in it, i.e., pre-trial detention and seizure of property. So far the action of justice. And you now want to transfer legal proceedings to the Basque Parliament. Now you want to move her. His initiative was clear in that regard. Without prejudice to the above, the case has not been definitively closed or dismissed because what the Chamber claims from the judge (Servini?), as the investigating judge of a criminal procedure, is that, if there really was a crime against humanity in the transition from Spain, it would prove it at once. It's been a long time, and it hasn't. The chamber comes to tell the judge to what - which is also what happens in the parliamentary discussions - that to prosecute someone is not enough opinions, but demonstrations, evidence that are not based on interpretations or judgements of the value of the plaintiffs about the history of Spain, opinions that at least can have the same weight or credibility as the four of the four former presidents of the Spanish government living: González, Aznar, Zapatero, Rajoy, and that they manifested during the instruction that that role of Martín Villa in the governments since the Spanish transition was opposed to genocide or a crime against humanity. Good. We do not share, Mr Arzuaga, your initiative in any of the four sections. We'll vote against it. I think he's missing data. But it wants to bring the initiative, I say again, making Parliament a judicial extension. I have tried to contribute what has been said, because many of the things that have been said you have not recognized them, you have not put them on the table, in relation to... (...?) Mr Martín Villa's defence and what the defence has achieved and how the courts have ruled in this case in relation to those issues that you spoke about and prejudged. I think they want to force here a debate that is already in the courts and that has its way also in the... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...I believe that they want to force here a debate that has already been conducted in the courts and that has its way also in Argentine justice. We, who have already spoken about this many times in Parliament, did not consider it necessary to support it. But, well, anyway, there it is, and that path is being followed by Argentine justice. And I see that in the last pronouncements of the Federal Chamber they do not like them. But, of course, sometimes we don't like court decisions, do we? But that again leads you to attract, to appeal to this Parliament again, to be part of that strategy. That strategy, which, on the one hand, is an attack, or an accusation, on Rodolfo Martín Villa. But also - we know - it is an attack on the Transition, on our Spanish Transition, which ended as it ended, with an installed, powerful, European democracy. And that's the thing. Mr Arzuaga presents us with another pnl, with a sentence in the title, as always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u33	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Vicefirst, Mr. Chief, Congressman, all good days. The Basque Socialists once again demand in this House the express recognition of the victims of the massacre of 3 March 1976. Today we remember Pedro María García Ocio, Francisco Aznar, Romualdo Barroso - who died on the same day - and José Castillo and Bienvenido Perea - who died shortly afterwards because of the gunshot wounds received. Our recognition of those people who lost their lives or were injured defending the workers' cause in those days of mobilizations, which were one of the main milestones in the struggle for freedom, which eventually brought an entire country to the streets. Against the dictatorship, against the repression of the dictator and his apparatuses, and for freedom. The demand for that memory, which is also our memory, that of the socialists, and that of all the people who participated in that mobilization and who also forged a new identity, a new political culture in our city, is an obligatory act for the democratic institutions that we want to endorse again today. From this Basque Parliament and from the General Councils of Álava, discussions have been held on many occasions on how to proceed and promote measures to contribute to this recognition. And by reviewing history, it has always - or almost always - been possible to add agreements for the truth, justice and reparation of the victims. Socialists have been in all these agreements to accompany and support victims from institutions in the search for truth. All these agreements always had in common two things: first, that there were in all of them pro-active elements of possible, achievable and useful action on the margins of politics and institutions, to advance in that contribution to the victims: and, second, that they looked more to the present and to the future, to the objective of seeking in the present and in the future effective solutions to deepen the search for truth, justice and reparation. And the non-law proposal presented today by EH Bildu does not meet either of these two conditions. With all due respect to the victims, with all the legitimacy that we recognize to any initiative, and with all the moral and political authority that gives us socialists to have been in all those agreements, in all the progress, in the conquest of freedoms and rights, and also in the reparation of all the victims, of all. All equal in their pain and in the injustice suffered. All different in their universe and in the causes of origin that give precise meaning to each group, as the Valentin Institute of Foronda taught us. The Socialists, with all that I have said, Mr Arzuaga, cannot accept the approach of your initiative. And we do not accept it, first of all, because a indictment, as well as the act of repealing it, deserves an accession or a rejection, a applause or a bulwark on the part of our political group. It's not our style, it's not our political culture. And, above all, it has a dubious utility, and it also has a dubious credibility coming from EH Bildu, which continues to have a complicated relationship among its top leaders with the decisions of justice, which are respected, supported, legitimized or delegitimized to convenience. And we do not accept it, because we do not understand the instance of the Government of Spain. Of course, not to the current Government of Spain, which has provided its cooperation whenever Judge Servini has been requested, and which, on the other hand, if Martín Villa was able to take a statement for five hours and as accused in August 2020, it was because the State Attorney General promoted the State's cooperation, leaving an order of 2016 invalidating the investigation of the Argentine judge. And assuming that it is the direct responsibility of the State to permanently adapt democratic memory policies to the new needs at the national, regional and local levels, as well as to the new memorial and human rights paradigms articulated at the international level. And we do not accept it, because we understand that what is before us here, and especially after listening to your speech, Mr Arzuaga, and also yours, Mr Hernández, is a debate more interested in shaping, modifying, collective perceptions of transition than in seeking effective solutions to describe the truth, to do justice and reparation in the present. Today the socialists defend the recognition of the victims and the absolute respect for the decisions of the courts, including the Argentine Court, which, although it has revoked the prosecution, maintains the accusation of Martín Villa. Today we Socialists endorse that our commitment to the... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...that although it has revoked the prosecution, it maintains the imputation of Martín Villa. Today, the Socialists confirm that our commitment to the claim of the victims of 3 March - and of all the victims of the dictatorship - is in the legislative action that we promoted from the Government of Spain in the draft law on democratic memory. Let the Spanish courts - as the amendment registered by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the United States makes possible - be able to carry out their investigations within the law, without questioning the Amnesty Law and its political significance, giving redress and moral reparation through the action of justice, even if it cannot have criminal consequences. It envisages the creation of a new Supreme Court Chamber Prosecutor's Office to investigate facts of war and dictatorship - up to the entry into force of the Constitution - that constitute violations of human rights and international humanitarian law, which will have the functions of driving the search for victims of the facts investigated. The Socialists here today also endorse the commitment to the victims in the thrust of the historic and democratic memory bill of Euskadi. A comprehensive law that aims to consolidate all the work done and promoted in Euskadi in recent years. And, therefore, it intends to regulate all our public policies. Because only through an instrument that integrates all the policies and rights that are required in the matter of historical memory can the right to know the truth, to seek and clarify the acts of violence and persecution suffered by many Basques and Basques, as well as the right to full and effective reparation for the damage suffered, be satisfied. And finally, we also endorse our commitment to the project of building a specific memorial in the Church of San Francisco de Vitoria, which we support from the Basque and Alavesan institutions, with the aim of building a political space for the dignity of the victims of March 3rd and their true political significance: that of their workers' struggle, that of the struggle for freedom and democracy in Euskadi and Spain. I'm done. The institutional and awareness-raising advances of Spanish society, of Basque society, in democratic memory have always had as their main value civil society, the families of the victims, associations and the whole of the memorial movement. For the socialists, their claim and work has our full recognition. And to the association of March 3rd: eskerrik asko egiten duzuen lanagatik. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u34	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u35	Mrs. President, Vice President, Chief of Staff, Congressman, all good days. On the 18th of July, 1936, General Franco struck the state against a people and his lawful government and caused a war so cruel and just. The result was that the forty-year-old dictatorship, thousands killed, wounded, exiled, exiled prisoners, thousands of prisoners, shot, missing, suffering, death, and many victims. Today, March 3, we have five especially in mind: Pedro Martíez Ocio, Francisco Aznanar, Romudo Barrso, José Castillo García and Bienvendio Pereda, police murdered in Gastei Zamaga, on March 3, 1976, the Minister Rodolfo Martí, Villa, Governor. It is, indeed, painful and pathetic to-day, to see again in Europe March 3, 2022, that a dictator, Vladimir Putin, has caused a violent and unjust war against another free people and his lawful government. Again, thousands of innocent, injured, exiled victims of totalitarianism. As at that time, even at the present day, the Jestric Party favors freedom, democracy, and human rights without hesitation. Freedom, democracy, and human rights to everyone, everywhere and always. 2000. until the year, in the Basque Act, the whole company of the Basque Act has proclaimed eight times the truth, justice, and attention of the victims of March 3. In like manner, he condemned the coup of the Franks, and the dictatorship, and, not only proclaimed the rights and memory of the victims, he gave the laws: I remember the creation of high school in 2014, and the confession and observation of victims in 2016. Several victims of Frankism, even for the smoking which had been introduced to the courthouses of Argentina, have twice been explained this whole assembly: 2013 and 2016. Finally, we are transmissing the bill of law of the historical and democratic tradition of Euskas in the legislature at the moment. On the other hand, it's $11 for the historical memory set up by Renk and other public institutions and the public policy to acknowledge and observe victims. We don't understand why EH Collect has introduced this initiative. The legislative has hitherto been proclaimed, and what has been done does not alter, or improve, and, without speaking to any one else, presents the initiative. In a certain way, we take a certain kind of propaganda or cosmetic, as well as a way of introducing it and of displaying it to the moment. The suffering of victims and political use of rights has never pleased us, we have never... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and the way and the time to present it. The suffering of victims and political use of rights has never pleased us. We haven't done it so far, and we'll go on with it in the future. The position of this Parliament, therefore, with regard to the massacre on 3 March, with regard to the rights of victims, and specifically with regard to their right to justice, is clear and repeated over time. From the year 2000 to the present, eight non-legislative proposals have been adopted condemning the massacre of 3 March, pointing out those responsible and defending the rights of the victims. Many others, condemning the coup d'état and the Franco dictatorship, and demanding: truth, justice and reparation and memory for their victims. Two non-law propositions, supporting the right to justice, demanding the imprescriptibility of crimes against humanity, defending universal justice and supporting the lawsuit that victims of the Franco dictatorship presented before the Argentine Justice. We have also passed laws to protect and promote public memory policies through the creation of the Gogora Institute in 2014, and to grant recognition and reparation to victims in 2016. And today, today, the bill on historical and democratic memory is being processed in Parliament. The determination of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government to safeguard historical and democratic memory is therefore clear. Including, of course, the events that took place in Gasteiz on 3 March 1976. The memory of the workers' and trade union mobilizations in favour of freedom, democracy and social rights, as well as the dramatic events that caused five victims in Gasteiz, will have their memorial space. And in the past year important steps have been taken by the Government, by public institutions, on this path. A protocol of collaboration was signed with the three institutions and the Bishopric of Álava to install in the Church of San Francisco the memorial March 3, Martxoak 3, Memoria Gunea. The first architectural assessment of the State in the Church and the architectural needs has already been carried out. Progress has been made in the creation of a foundation that will manage the future space with the participation of the three institutions, the Bishopric of Álava and also with representation of Martxoak 3 and Memoria Gara. And throughout this time there has been ongoing dialogue with the victims to agree on the bases and contents to be set out in the future exhibition space that are already contained in a consensus document. Therefore, firm steps are being taken to meet the request of the victims themselves to make a memory space in the Church of San Francisco a reality in which, in addition, the victims themselves have an active part in their management. We therefore fail to see the real meaning of this non-law proposition. It does not change or improve what has already been approved so far on repeated occasions. The proposal has been presented without contrasting it with any other group. The forms and timing of its presentation and debate give it a certain propagandistic or cosmetic tone. And as far as victims and their rights are concerned, we have always tried to act from the consensus. Seeking and weaving complicitys between groups and fleeing the partisan debate. That's how it has been in the past, and that's how we want it to stay. We are therefore going to abstain in the vote on the non-legislative proposal. Mr Martín Villa's statements last January 17 at a breakfast in Madrid, were a despicable exercise of political and personal cynicism. Martín Villa has shown a coldness and indifference that we cannot accept. Our group has always been and will be on the side of the victims, of all of them without differentiations. We cannot forget, as he claims the victims of the transition, nor forget or cover up these atrocities. Martín Villa's words only reflect the character's moral size. A moral size which does not deserve a pronouncement from this Parliament, which should not be reduced to entering into that cynical and treacherous debate. Truth, justice and reparation. Democracy and freedom for all those who are victims of sin-ration, totalitarianism and dictatorships. Today our memory for the victims of March 3, 76, and for all those who are now suffering the attacks, persecution and war of Vladimir Putin. Today we say loud and clear, not to the war of Vladimir Putin, Putin Gerrari ez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Azuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturete, it seems, has been fairly discussed in this parliament. This has its rules, this parliament is the first time in this legislation to prevent it. It's already been a while. And today, March 3, it's the day of the victims. I don't know how many times you've said it was a discussion. And I want to ask you, is it okay? Do these victims have truth and justice? Is it exhausting? Is it boring to bring this discussion here for your team, Mr. Iturate? Do I have to ask you for permission to bring me an initiative? Is to remember a propaganda, Mr. Iturate? Ms. Olathe just told me she's gone to pick flowers at Monolyte. He couldn't argue, and I think it's all right. And I'm not going to say that she's making propaganda for putting flowers on her because I think she's an initiative she's doing in her most respectful parameters. Esaten duzu Martin Villa despicable from her. Ez zennuen pentsatzen hemen bidea eman behar zitzaiola hitz horiek errefusatzeko ekimen beaten? Let's pass Mr. Martín Villa's insult to the victims, let's pass all the insults to all the victims from now on, Mr. Iturrate. You're Martín Villa person where you vote for grata in various places: Gasteiz, Tuña, Arsate, Irun, Lstar, Zizur, Renteria, Balmaseda, Billabona... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...that you have voted for Martín Villa, where grata has been given several places: Gasteiz, Iruña, Arsate, Irun, Lstar, Zizur, Redseda, Villabona, Usurbil, Lazaeus. Your votes today are too much for this initiative. The Government of the victims, the Government which does not consider that there are first and second victims, are today going to vote abstention and against. And I understand you don't like the text of this initiative. And they could have presented alternative and we would have tried to reach a compromise. But I think they do not like the text, but rather the initiative itself. I think they do not like to devote our time today, our space in this Parliament to the victims of 3 March. San José andrea, they're in every deal. No, no, Well, not lately. They're against, they're voting against, the general meetings, they're voting against here. And you, lately, this season, are closer to a legality that protects the Francoist perpetrators than a legality that protects the victims. And it's not worth saying that there's a legality because there's a conflict of legality. There is Spanish domestic legality, which, in fact, with the Amnesty Act puts a stop to the aspirations of the victims, and there is legislation, a jurisdiction, international justice, which can still give them recognition and redress. And you have positioned yourself in favor of one and against the other. And that's the message you're bringing us here. They will find it coherent to call themselves socialist, to call themselves workers, and to abandon workers who suffered crimes against humanity, who then perhaps, in addition, were represented closer by their acronyms, and who today deny them a demand for justice and truth, which they are still carrying out on the street, and align themselves with the perpetrators. And, therefore, it seems to me that it is consistent that they give their support, also as they previously gave to Martín Villa so that he does not declare before Servini, that letter which Felipe González, Rodríguez Zapatero, signed, in addition to several former general secretaries of UGT and Workers' Commissions, together with Aznar and Rajoy. And it is consistent, surely in that position, to vote together with the PP and Vox, who deny the rights of the victims and even deny the historical memory. Mr. Barrio, it's very simple, it's very simple. Look, the Federal Appeals Chamber of Argentina has indeed said that we must continue to investigate the basis of these crimes against humanity. And you say, "Great. Fabulous. Here we stand. We're satisfied. That you don't keep investigating. Let us not continue with the proceedings." And that is why, precisely today, Mr Barrio, on our initiative, and that is the novelty, Mr Iturrate, and that is why this initiative is important, what we demand from the Spanish Government and the Spanish justice is that we continue to investigate, that we continue to support Argentine justice, that we continue to carry out police attestations, that we continue to investigate and clarify facts so that, at least there, if it is impossible, at least there, these victims of March 3 have recognition, reparation, truth and justice. But, look, gentlemen of the far right, I cannot blame you for anything, because it seems very consistent to me the position you are going to adopt today as heirs to Mr Fraga and Mr Martín Villa. I also welcome the fact that they are unmasked. By paraphrasing Martin Villa, using his words, you too owe it all to Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u38	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u39	Good. Each parliamentary group knows or will know where it stands before the initiative before us. Of course, my group - I think I said it at the beginning of the parliamentary term - my group with each specific initiative is going to position itself not in terms of strategies, but in terms of political content. And we agree with the content of the non-legislative proposal before us. I will not deny that when an organization, in this case who brings it, brings an initiative, it seeks certain political protagonistism. I'm not gonna deny that. And we've often said that that doesn't sound bad to us. It seems to us that today, 3 March, the debate on the events of 3 March is a good democratic exercise for a Parliament, for the Euskadi Parliament. And, therefore, we approach this debate without mistrust, being aware that protagonists can be sought, without mistrust. And the contents of the initiative, we agree. And, of course, we are doing an exercise in contributing with our contributions, to which no one has referred, and I do not know what the different groups are going to vote for, because we have made an amendment to add, which is therefore voted separately from the initiative proposed to us. And we think that part of the content, the part that goes to the Government of Spain, of which we are part, our coalition is part, is a perfectly acceptable content, Mrs San José, because, moreover, it refers to putting the mechanisms in place, it speaks generically, it does not say which ones, which we can then discuss. Some of them you yourself have made reference to. You have referred to an order that was issued, indeed. That's a mechanism. Others are missing. Some are going through the Spanish Historical Memory Law, where we would have liked to go more there. And I would also like to clarify our position on the Amnesty Act because I believe it is important. The Amnesty Act, as has been said, was effectively defended by the Communist Party, an organization to which I represent in Euskadi. Indeed. And we have never regretted it because thousands, thousands of political prisoners who were unjustly condemned by this planning of persecution of the Franco state went out on the street. But it is true that the Amnesty Law has been used by justice... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... for this planning of persecution of the Francoist State. But it is true that the Amnesty Law has been used by Spanish Justice as an excuse not to pursue these crimes against humanity. And, therefore, our obligation I believe is precisely to look for all the formulas and make the changes that are necessary to prevent that argument from being used again. We, of course, will be in the search for justice, we will be in the memory of the victims of March 3, but also in the search for justice. And that is why we are never going to reject a debate on this issue in this Parliament, and less so until justice has been done, whoever brings it. We do not care, on other occasions, that we have brought it in, and that we have debated times, and that we have previous agreements, which I believe are disturbing and in which we, of course, also reaffirm ourselves in those agreements where we are. Today our memory is for the victims of 3 March, as I said in my first speech, but I extend, of course, to all the victims of the dictatorship. And on a day like today I would like to do this especially towards the victims of the Workers' Movement and the Trade Union Movement, who were a concrete collective, one of them, but a concrete collective that was persecuted, retaliated, imprisoned, murdered, tortured and forced into exile in a systematic way by the dictatorship and with a clear political orientation throughout the dictatorship, and in a very strong way during the last years of the dictatorship, where that movement was more organized. That is why we will continue to defend that these are crimes against humanity, and we will continue to demand not only memory, but also that justice be investigated and done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Hernandez, just a little something. During the transition, the Communist Party is indeed the one that most vehemently defended the Amnesty Law, as I reminded you at the outset. His then secretary general, Santiago Carrillo, said: "We want to cross and cross over the Civil War once and for all." And he added: "Amnesty must be for all, on one side and on the other." I think you should make a little more of a case to that leader of yours, because actually what he wanted is for us to leave the individualities and reconcile all the Spaniards, which is what we should do. And this, moreover, his leader said, and I think he said it at a very right time, so we cannot manipulate the Amnesty Law and say that it is used for some yes and for others no, the law is that just as I said before, for everything. And finally, let Bildu come to this House demanding reparation, truth and justice. It is precisely I, Mr Arzuaga, who does not look me in the face when I speak to him, right?, of course we condemn the crimes of 3 March in Vitoria, of course, I say it loud and clear, of course we condemn the crimes of 3 March in Vitoria, but we also condemn all kinds of crimes, including those of the terrorist band ETA. And you, I repeat again, and you? Do not lie, because we claim the right, as I say, of all the victims. He manipulated by saying no, that we only make some of them. Lie, and I've done it publicly here. Are you as tall as I am, Mr. Arzuaga? You have a very key moment to do it, why don't you do it like us? Condemn all kinds of violence, also that of ETA, because I can assure you that I owe nothing absolutely to Franco, but nothing, and you to ETA, how much do you owe him? Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u42	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u43	Thank you, President. Look, and I'm going to remind you a little bit of what I mentioned in the second intervention in relation to the process being carried out in Argentina. It has decided the Second Federal Criminal Court of the Argentine Nation the following by unanimity of its judges: revoke the piece appealed in everything when it decides and it was matter of appeal, prosecution, prison, embargo, declare the lack of merit in relation... lack of merit, which means the lack of evidence, judgment, sufficient, to prosecute Rodolfo Martín Villa in relation to the facts described, of pronouncement (?)needy. No one has proved the crime of genocide against humanity, no one. In addition, unanimity of the court, I say again, and in addition, the decision of the Prosecutor's Office not to appear in the Chamber of Justice (?)Appeal. I mean, they're elements that are there, that have to be analyzed. You've brought... It has wanted to judicialize Parliament here, but judicialization (?) which is on the other side, leads the process it leads. The truth is that you have succeeded, because the favourable abstention of the PNV is going to make you go ahead with your initiative, which is a bit striking, because then Mr Iturrate will explain it to us, if you abstain it will come out, that is, that you do want the initiative to come out, because if you do not want the initiative to come out, you would vote against it, as you do systematically on most opposition issues, that is, that you do want the initiative to come out. It is very contradictory what you have said with the meaning of your vote, the vote of your group. I ask you, please, to really explain to me why you are abstaining if you do not want the initiative to come out, tell me, because that is parliamentaryism. And then, like, some key doesn't escape me. You are going to abstain and the initiative will come out, because Mr Arzuaga, you have already obtained the title of GNP again thanks to the support of the Basque Nationalist Party. I think so. Mr Arzuaga always expresses different personalities in the Chamber, always, always, different personalities: prosecutor, does well, prosecutor accused, very easily; judge, because sentence, because the titles of the PNL are always sentences in relation to the State Security Bodies and Forces, with Martín Villa, with everything, with the right... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... because the titles of the pnl are always sentences, in relation to the bodies and security forces of the State, with Martín Villa, with... with everything, with the right, with everything. I mean, he's also a judge, he's a prosecutor. Man, he's a violence picker, he really likes to select violence. There are very bad violence, and there are violence that are ideological. For which he is here, for which he is here. But they don't talk, they don't condemn them, they don't criticize them, because they're the good ones. That is to say, in that sense too, he is a violence selector. But I've already had a lot of fun, and the last one... this pose of Mr. Arzuaga, who is like... Looks like he wants to be my particular biographical. I'll have to say that, won't I? But he wants to be my particular biographical Mr. Arzuaga. Because it tells me what my life is, it tells me what my origins are, it tells me where I come from, it tells me what my ideology is. It's curious. Look, Mr. Arzuaga, my ideology is as far away from Franco's as it is from yours. As far away from Franco's as yours. Good. Some, and it is seen in this speech - I am also sorry for Podemos -, some who want, seek (...) involved. We can because it has parties like the United Left, like the Communist Party, which have been (...) of the Transition. They want to carry the Transition and its values, its political achievements, its democratic achievements. And they're worth any speech. But, again, I think it's amazing about the PNV. That is, "this law is not made sense, this proposal is not made by law," said Mr. Iturrate. And you're going to support her? Because he's going to abstain. It's just gonna come out. A abstention here is a yes, Mr Iturrate. It seems a little contradictory to me after disqualifying the initiative, doesn't it? That is to say, you want that title to be placed on the agenda of this plenary, in the documentation, in the sitting paper of this plenary, and that the title of Mr Iturrate's initiative, Mr Arzuaga's, is installed there as an initiative with a judgment in its holder. That's the tree and the nuts, Mr. Iturrate. That's the tree and the nuts thing. Let's see. Mr Martín Villa may be despicable, he may be a non-grateful person, he may be lacking empathy with the victims, but what we are talking about today is that he is judged; he is judged whether or not he is a genocidal and has crimes against humanity. And for the time being, the courts don't appreciate it. So, that's the thing. But, Mr Iturrate, I really ask you to clarify why you are going to vote. In the end, the meaning of your vote will be positive, in the form of abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u44	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u45	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Arzuaga, our position is the same here and in General Meetings. We've said -well, we've said in our... in my previous intervention - that we respect all judicial decisions. And, of course, we understand that to collaborate with justice, of course, this initiative is not necessary. Don't get confused. Today we are celebrating an anniversary that, of course, has struck us in an inhumane way, continues to shock us with this massacre, and the socialists also reaffirmed us in this need to regain freedom, build democracy and dignify labour relations, and conquer the new rights of workers. And since then, these tasks have been part of the permanent political action of the socialists. And yes, Mr Arzuaga, the Socialist Workers' Party, and Spanish. And we can proudly say that we have made progress in these rights, and that, when we have tried to move back, as in the 2013 Labour Reform of the People's Party Government, we have also continued to work until we reach this new labour reform; whose importance and effects for Basque workers and for the whole of Spain many have tried to minimize by all possible means. And there they will find us socialists always: recovering rights - recovering lost rights - and expanding those rights. And that's done in the official newsletters. They will also find us socialists in all agreements, pacts and actions to accompany and support victims from institutions in search of the truth. And we were in this Parliament in that special committee in 2007-2008 which devoted itself to investigating - from the historical point of view and from the point of view of the statement of the people who were actors or sufferers of that act - what happened there. And what Mr Martín Villa expressed there, he said on 17 January, was an exact recognition of what happened, and that is something that Parliament's opinion clearly said; both he and the members of his government were politically responsible for the killing of Vitoria-Gasteiz. The principles which in all these debates on 3 March and others of the same kind have inspired the socialists have been two: recognition and reparation. And we have done our utmost to bring these conclusions to light in all the debates and in all the resolutions: recognition and reparation. In this debate, we see an overperformance of EH Bildu's claim of the memory of March 3 sterile, unproductive, and agitating the debate of the democratic process, the transition, the amnesty. You used to say "point and end." We say that it is "a point and apart", "a point and apart from the period of dictatorship". It is a process in which the majority of citizens decide to enter democracy without adjustment of accounts. But this debate has to be done with authority, working for the truth, for justice and reparation. And to comply with those principles of truth, justice and reparation for victims and guarantee of non-repetition is essential so that there can be a true democratic culture that will help us overcome the damage caused. And the draft law on state democratic memory allows us to develop those public policies necessary to move forward in this very important task. Democratic memory is a matter of state for socialists, to know our recent past, to live together in the present and to protect the future. It is essential to improve the quality of our democracy and not repeat mistakes already made. That's why... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in the present and protect the future. It is essential to improve the quality of our democracy and not repeat mistakes already made. Therefore, according to the commitment made to all victims whose recognition, reparation and dignity remain an inexcusable duty, a moral duty in political life, we will adopt a law on democratic memory. And I finish, truth, justice and reparation. Without memory there is no future. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u46	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u47	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mr. Barrio, worry about your own contradictions and those of your party, that you have a car to choose from, and stop taking account of others, because, as my mother says, there is no worse deaf person than the one who does not want to hear. I have devoted nine minutes of my speech to justifying my group's position, and what happens is that you have your debate and I understand it, but since we are asking each other, the question I ask myself is why you saying mouth-to-mouth whenever you are with all the victims, generic appeals that defend the right to memory of all the victims and against all the violence, have always consistently voted against all the initiatives and laws that this Parliament has made to recognize and repair the victims of Francoism, the victims of police abuses to work the historical and democratic memory in this country. Yes, Mr. Barrio, always, against all of them, despite their hollow, empty, dishonest statements. Mr. Azuga, I tried to explain. And you asked me, after listing all the others as we have hitherto tested, to see if the situation has changed, if this situation has been solved. I hope the situation of these victims has been solved, so the question has been asked. And my question is: Will the other proposal like you fix it? Today, after the legislature has been solved (... () Will the right to the memory of these victims be settled, the right to justice, the right to truth? You know, Mr. Azuga, how things are done better than well, when one thing wants to go on. It is particularly significant that you today affix to my group the abstention, the active abstention defined by Mr Carmelo Barrio, the abstention from this non-legislative proposal, saying that we are with this abstention positioning ourselves against the victims. Mr Arzuaga, today you have just abstained from the Equality Act. Should I tell you if you are, if you are not with the victims of the macho violence by that abstention, as you have done by referring to my group? You abstained in 2014 in the Law of Creation of the Institute of Memory and Human Rights, Gogora. Does that mean... should I ask you if that means that you are against the memory of the victims of the Franco dictatorship and repression or of the victims of terrorism or of the victims of the LAG? You abstained in 2016 in the vote on the Law on Recognition and Reparation for Victims of Political Violence, or the Victims of the State, should I ask you if that means that you are against the right to recognition and reparation for those victims? Don't be a fool in the debate. You know how agreements are reached in this Parliament, you have done so on other occasions. Look, 2013 and 2016, the two initiatives of this Parliament in defense of the Argentine lawsuit and the victims of Francoist repression, the two carry the signature of Euskal Herria Bildu, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and the Basque Nationalist Party, the two. And this, not this, this comes only today with your signature, because you weren't looking for an agreement here, because you were looking for a propaganda act. And we, Mr Hernandez, unlike you, do find it wrong to seek protagonistship in the victims, with the victims. I have said this in my first speech, we have not done it so far, and we are not going to do it, because we remain committed to the right, to the rights of all victims to truth, justice and reparation without protagonists, without political advantage, without taking advantage of them and political gain. We've reported it before and we're still doing it now. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The discussion's over and we'll vote first. The correction of the Podemos-Nozzer team together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 26; the contrary is 47; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u49	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote the original text of EH-Bast as the rest of the party. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 26; the contrary 17. Abstations, 30; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u50	So the original text has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "In like manner," said Podemos-Nodemus, "like the parliamentary band of the Animate, the women make use of their own sexual rights and the rights of reproduction... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... dot: "The other proposition of Podemos-Nodemus, by the law of the parliamentary faction, is that women are really using their own sex and their rights to protect themselves." In turn, there's a Mrs. Podemos-Noker's wife who's representing the Animal Team, she's got the word to introduce and defend herself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u51	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Today we begin with the reform of the equality of laws. And Elisabet, as my friend and colleague Elisabet used to say, we connect with the things that have left out of our favor with reform, at once with the beginning of our work. And therefore we have brought this initiative to-day, because it is necessary for us to consider the rights of women's sex and reproduction. Sexual and reproductive rights: this is one of the major absences of the Equality Act that we have just reformed. We know that there is a commitment to progress in this area. And because we know that there is a commitment to progress in this area, that is why we have decided to take the lead and bring this issue to the House today, because we want to start working from now on. And in this sense, I would like to remind you, I would like to remind you of the posters that had recently appeared in the Gasitian marauders against women's right of abortion. He reacted, but it's too late. The cut control of this campaign failed. The campaign, which was the resurrection itself, violated so many female rights: the right to sexual health and performance, for your own and family's intimatable... All these rights to physical and moral integrity were torn to pieces. And though all this be so, yet if we look at the Fusult, we have it: that the campaign was retired a few hours before the end of the term hired. And if we look at the promoters of the billboards, if we look at the consequences of them, it was zero. I'm sure some of us have aborted, or we have spoken to the women who have ended up, and we know very well the pain with which such posters cause pain. These messages which are put on the public road are extremely painful, and we cannot accept it. I would like everyone, all of us, to try to put ourselves in the shoes of every woman who has aborted – I am sure that there are women in this House who have aborted – and let's imagine this woman who takes the bus in her city and bumps into a marquee with publicity that encourages citizens to question her decision and stigmatize her by making this decision. Five days, with five marquee deployed. But not only in Vitoria, in addition, but we could also see this deployment at the state level, in a demonstration of funding and coordination and structure as few organizations have. And even though we have an approved organic equality law, although we have more than 30 years of an equality law that we have now reformed, awarded, and which we also like to boast about because it is worth boasting about, they are placed in 250 stands in 33 cities - one of them Vitoria - posters that express, without any rumbling, that harassing women in the exercise of their fundamental rights is great. And we just heard the Bishop of Vitoria say he's great too. No sanction for campaign promoters, no responsibilities assumed by those who manage advertising media... For our group this result is a message that is very dangerous, and that is that women are alone in defending our sexual rights. And in any case, we are not here to blame, but to find out the measures to prevent it from happening again. Medical rights, education rights, work rights... these we look upon as the care of all, which every one cannot secure by himself, and demand the co-ordination of society. Why our sexual rights and our repulsive rights, why is not respect for them the same importance? The minist Irene Montero said last week, that in the Committee of Equality of Congress, it serves to measure the democratic quality of a country, and also the capacity of public powers, to ensure the decision of our bodies, and to ensure our decisions on our lives together. For to defend the rights of sex and reproduction, feminist struggle, democratic combat is a struggle to guarantee a fundamental right. Aborted or not aborted, as mother, not being or being mother, freely enjoying our sexuality, are the fundamental rights. And because they are fundamentall Rights, they must be preserved for all; otherwise it is not Right. And in this sense, they cannot be conditioned according to the social and economic condition of women, or, as they say, where they live. In the year of Euskadin, 2020, 3,422 of which, it was only 171... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... 3.422 have been subdued, and of these only 171 were made to co-operate in public centres, namely, less than 5%. Now let's think about a abortion worth 500. Up to that point. And today, almost every day, Osarides pays that money, but he usually pays most of the time in private clinics. He's got on this and this responsibility. In order that sexual and repulsive rights may be rights, so that they may be guaranteed, public organizations must take care of themselves and be public service. It is a matter of deciding whether we are going to contribute to women's effective exercise of our rights and that we are able to do so without fear, judgment, stigma, or guilt, without taboos. That is why we are bringing to this plenary a number of proposals which we believe are essential. Because we believe that, on the one hand, it is necessary to strengthen the exercise of the right to abortion in health organizations integrated in Osakidetza. We believe that this is fundamental. And it's simple, it's the complete publication of abortions. While we know that the reform that is being proposed by the Ministry of Equality is going to be indispensable in this task, Euskadi must now start thinking about providing public health with the necessary, professional and material resources. Because public health is the one that is designed for all, and the one that has shown us, and we say it every day for two years, that it is the one that protects us and cannot be subjected to privatization processes, because they are de facto an obstacle to the exercise of sexual and reproductive rights. Today's abortions are still outsourced, I've given the figure before, and that part of Osakidetza's privatization strategy must end. We also believe that it is very important that no administration should be used as a loudspeaker for campaigns that incite harassment and violence against women. The qualified training of all public operators on the prevention and identification of sexist violence in the advertising field needs to be increased. We believe that any kind of support should be withdrawn for any institution or entity that violates women's fundamental rights in their access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, and that the Basque Government should also be urged to show, through relevant institutional actions and campaigns, a strong rejection of access, harassment and the criminalization of women in the exercise of their sexual and reproductive rights. We believe that there is also a need to develop, in collaboration with feminist organisations, an awareness-raising and information campaign in different fields. With particular attention to education and health, which is aimed at facilitating access to information for women and adolescents, and to citizenship in general, with different languages and public objectives on resources for family planning and sex education, which can be used, on the right to free voluntary termination of pregnancy and its content, and on the different existing methods and centres to be used also to prevent sexually transmitted infections. We know that Euskadi has to deploy all the necessary mechanisms and instruments for the comprehensive development of the sexual rights agenda. And we have pointed out this as one of the most outstanding absences in the reform that we adopted a few minutes ago. But as long as that multidisciplinary and coordinated deployment arrives, what we cannot continue to do is ignore the failures in access to information and protection of the rights we are already witnessing. In its original wording, in our proposal, let us also include support for the proposed amendment of the Criminal Code to penalize harassment of women who come to address it. This reform has already been incorporated into our system and is already applicable in Euskadi and calls on the criminal system to respond when all other systems have failed. It is up to us, as a House representing Basque citizenship, to think what needs to be done in order for the criminal response to be subsidiary. It is not what we are pursuing, it is not our criminal response, the criminal response is not our goal. It has to be a subsidiary response, to prevent, to ensure that no sexual rights are taboo. And it's not exercised with fear either. We have to decide what we are going to do to empower ourselves as a society in the face of the setback posed by sectors that deny our right to free and full sexuality. For all this, I am now grateful to all the parliamentary groups who have given us the opportunity to obtain the medium: To EAJ, the Social Party, even EH Collector. Thank you and I hope this will be the pioneer of many other compacts that will come in this other subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u53	Thank you all, good noon. First of all, I'd like to look at Poland. This other proposition and political context, I think, ought to have led us to this country. At this moment, as it has not been so before, we may mention the country, but I think we must give a moment to look at what is going on inside the front. The women of Poland suffer, and the frightful loss of sexual and refractory rights that have been suffering since a year ago... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and the loss of the sexual and refractory rights which are suffering here a year ago has already been a terrible loss, the total prohibition of the abortion has killed two women, and the fact that what they're doing well, but what they're trying to do is that we need to change, and from an international point of view we're saying that we're still working beside them. In the same sense, if we look into the nationality, Colombia has often been able to mention this country in a very contrary sense, i.e. in a negative sense; But in this case, it is a positive warning that we have recently accepted the right to abort until 24 weeks ago, and it has become an abortion for many international countries. We have, therefore, from good and evil, the tentitudes that affect us also, and we must look at them. I used to think of reading this illegal thing, because at that time, in front of the Regression of the High Court, the feminist movement was organized and out of doors. And I remember, especially, that the new one took out a mask of − I know that you remember, ten women turned their faces on it: ten Basque women looked up, saying they had, too, aborted. And I believe that the stigma has been the watering means to break it, others have since come, but I believe the symbolic value it had at that moment was dreadful. Why do I say this? The right of abortion, because the rights of determining one's self upon his own body produce so many factors, not only laws. Badauka ere −asko− norberak duen botere indibidualetik, UNFPAk ikerketa bat atera zuen 2021ean: My body belongs to me: claiming the right to autonomy and self-determination. This is called the UNFPA report, which talks about the different aspects that we should take into account in order to exercise that full right to self-determination - as Mr. Miran said so far - to decide whether or not we want to be mothers, and when we want to be mothers. And there he spoke, for example, of the individual power, of the knowledge about one's own health and the sexual and reproductive rights that we have, and of the decision-making capacity that we can have. On the other hand, he also spoke of the community sense: those gender norms, those stigmas and beliefs that make decision-making difficult or easier. He was also talking about a health system, the need for it to be a close health system, what were the costs, the quality of care and the bias of the provider. He also spoke about interpersonal relationships, the position of the couple, communication, the extended family, or socio-economic factors such as education, wealth, access to the media, rurality or urbanity. And I think we've tried to penetrate all this legally into this other. We have penetrated several points, because we know that the achievement of this right requires many aspects. And in this sense there is a ethrabba, as well as in looking at the formation, a demand to proclaim several campaigns, and to encourage the opposition, as innocent, for rights. It's a medium we see with very good eyes, so we've signed it, among other things, of course. And we'd like to be able to focus on... We, moreover, made a right to complete or to add, because we saw the original proposition with good eye, and made only one amendment in the sense in which it was now taken from the law? He wanted to strengthen the right to abort in the medical institutions of the community. We called for strengthening the exercise of the right to abortion in Osakidetza's integrated health organizations. Why? Because when we do this from the public system it becomes even more difficult to identify women who are accessing their right to abortion, among others. You're a genuine hori mahai hen a jarzea ezinbestekoa zeala, age hori guztiek aho batza ezinbestekoa her ezinbestekoa. Bidea oztopatzen diegulako eskubideen kontra daudenei, erabakitzeko eskubideeen kontra daudenei. Eta Calala... the Women's Fund that works in Catalonia, as they said, "because we want sexual and reproductive rights for all, all, all". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning again. Well, today Elkarrekin We can bring us an initiative to take measures for the effective protection of women in the exercise of their sexual and reproductive rights. And, well, we all know that the abortion debate is at the heart of it, which is obviously a debate that is being conducted and has been carried out elsewhere, with regard to specific legislative amendments that go beyond the specific scope of this Parliament and that I therefore believe that the positions of the different groups that we represent in other areas have been made clear, have they not? And they're clear because, as I say, there's been... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... other areas have become clear, haven't they? And they are clear because, as I say, there have been discussions on this issue. We have wanted, beyond the specific debate on this initiative, to go further to other issues that we believe are fundamental when we talk about sexual rights. In this regard, we have considered it appropriate to amend the proposed text as a whole and to talk about reforming health promotion and education programmes in the education system, as well as increasing the training that our Basque public health professionals receive in the various fields so that quality care can be given to Basque citizens. In this proposition, my party would like to bring two accounts to this debate: On the one hand, we're asking the M.M.M. to reinforce the health and to bring it to the ground? ) We ask Scucchar System, and, moreover, that the Eucomune would increase the 30th of eucalyptic health in order to give the euccanic attention to the euscal populations. Article 43 of the Constitution recognizes the right to health protection. I believe that this article is clearly enshrined in our Constitution. And it states that the public authorities will promote health education. The General Health Act itself, in article 6, states that the actions of the various public administrations will be directed towards the promotion of health and the provision of adequate health education. Therefore, programmes in the area of sex education for anyone, especially young people, are of particular importance. We talk about that you have the information, the knowledge you need to make the decisions you will have to make throughout your life, as well as that you can answer all those questions about sexual and affective health. Undoubtedly, I say this not by chance, but because many researches speak of the many shortcomings that exist in this respect. We have therefore introduced a specific paragraph on strengthening health promotion and education programmes in the education system. On the other hand, tools must be offered in comprehensive sex education. And the role of the school is fundamental. It is absolutely essential that safe, reliable and scientific information is provided at school. UNESCO points out that the goals of sex education are to teach and learn cognitive, emotional, physical and sexual aspects of sexuality. And that speaks also specifically to equip girls, young people with knowledge..., children, girls, young people, knowledge and the skills, attitudes and values that empower them to be aware of their health, well-being and dignity and, above all, also to be able to develop sexual relations based on respect. Comprehensive sex education as an effective tool to combat violence. We were already talking about gender-based violence at the first point, where a law on gender-based violence has been passed, and in that regard, we believe that sex education is also a key tool for advancing equality between men and women, combating gender-based violence, sexual abuse, discrimination and promoting respect for diversity. There is no doubt that we have all those issues that anyone in this particular area can raise. We are talking more about women, but I too want to talk about men and all the young people. Information on sexually transmitted diseases, on contraceptive methods, on any consultations that may be carried out. And also, of course, I support and help those women who have become pregnant, who were not in their plans to become pregnant, but who would like to continue with a pregnancy. We believe that these women must certainly be helped, they cannot be dumped, those women who want to continue with a pregnancy and who are in a situation of special difficulty due to lack of resources. And, in this regard, I would also like to remind you that we have often also put forward initiatives in this House, in other Parliaments, to, well, also promote motherhood in those women who want to continue with their pregnancy. In short, I, with my amendment, wanted to go beyond the concrete proposal that is being brought to this House. We have been raising our minds, I am aware, with an amendment to the whole in order, as I said, to strengthen sex education programmes in the educational field and, above all, an issue which is extremely important, that when professionals are asked in public administrations, and especially in the field of Basque public health, because they are properly trained, we know that they are, but, in that sense, good, because we give them all the tools so that they can advise in a reliable way, in a clear way, in an understandable way. And that is the objective of our initiative, which we believe was important to introduce this topic in relation to the initiative presented by Elkarrekin Podemos. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u56	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u57	Thank you very much, President. Sexual and reproductive rights are human rights, and this is what the United Nations affirms. They are based on the recognition of the basic right of all couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number of children they want and to have information and the means to do so, as well as the right to take decisions concerning reproduction without discrimination, coercion or violence. So, for my group... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... as the right to take decisions concerning reproduction without discrimination, coercion or violence. Therefore, for my parliamentary group, trying to coerce a woman at the door of a health clinic is a violation of her right to make decisions about her reproduction. In particular, women's rights were being violated. And this is what this initiative is about. The Ombudsman himself points out that such harassment, harassment and coercion are an attack on women's freedom. Steps have been taken at the state level. The Socialist parliamentary group registered in May 202, in the Congress of Deputies, a proposal for a law amending the Organic Act of 23 November 1995 of the Criminal Code, to penalize harassment of women attending clinics for the voluntary termination of pregnancy. And its consideration took place in September 2021. And for the first time in our country, impeding the right to abortion is a criminal offence. This was necessary because this offence against freedom was not established when exercising it, not only in exercising its right, but also in accessing health care, thus creating a new article 172.4 of the Criminal Code. Therefore, with this reform of the Criminal Code, it is intended to ensure the exercise with guarantees. We are sending an important message: that women's bodies are free and sovereign. We are not discussing the right to abortion, yes or no. Fortunately, that right is guaranteed in our legal system, and it is not disputed because it was adopted mostly. Gallardón tried to repeal the right to abortion and failed to do so. I'm proud to have gone, at that time, on the freedom train. That movement, that massive mobilization of women throughout Spain, has brought that initiative and Minister Gallardón into jeopardy. We believe that women should make progress in the exercise of their rights and not take a step backwards. In a democratic society, in an advanced society like ours, we cannot afford this and be questioned about the exercise of our freedom, and that our freedom is not guaranteed. For this reason, there are crimes against women's freedom that should be incorporated into the Penal Code. In the face of this initiative, the People's Group and the Vox Group tabled comprehensive amendments that were discussed in November 2011 in Congress and were rejected. This initiative was finally approved at the Congress of Deputies on 3 February 2020 by a large majority - 204 votes in favour, 144 against - and was supported by the Socialist Group, the United Podemos Group, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Republican parliamentary group, the EH Bildu group, the plural citizen parliamentary group, and the Joint Group. This initiative equates us to other countries such as Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Austria, which have already established this crime against women's freedom and coercion against the law regulated in their laws. Both the People's Group and Vox have advocated - not to support this initiative - a stand against abortion itself, without realizing that we are talking about guaranteeing an already legally recognized right, under the defense of the freedom of expression of those who harass women in health clinics where they come to exercise their right. But we're not talking about that, because the right to freedom of expression - or the right to assembly - is something you can exercise, but what you can't do is intimidate, coerce, harass or hinder, or publicly signal to specific individuals who want to exercise a legally recognized right, who want to have privacy and privacy at that time. And that the active subjects who are carrying out these coercions are not legitimized for it. In short, harassing and coercing in a premeditated and organized way, and persevering is not a freedom of expression. We are in a democratic and legal state and we cannot tolerate such conduct. These behaviors must be censored and put the means in place so that this does not happen. Defending equality is that every woman does and develops what she considers within the legal framework that we have. I believe that we have the right to exercise our rights in freedom, without being harassed, without being judged and without being coerced. Because there are political formations that do not bet on defending the exercise of women's rights. Not a step back in defending our rights, in our freedom and in the rights we have won. It needs to be regulated. And this has been achieved at the state level in the Congress of Deputies. That is why, at this point, both in the proposal group's initiative and in our amendment as a whole, since this point, one of those points, has already been approved at state level, was already exceeded and has not been included in the compromise amendment. It was important for us to come to this compromise amendment in this area. First, because the different groups that we have also signed today have jointly defended this amendment of the Criminal Code in the Congress of Deputies, which took an important step to ensure the exercise of the rights legally recognized in our country to women, and that they can do so in peace and without having to be coerced to... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... legally in our country to women, and that they can do so in peace and without having to be coerced into it. But it also introduces a strong rejection of any regression of women's already consolidated rights, which involves interfering, intimidating or coercing decisions about their own bodies. It also includes a number of measures that can be taken to urge the Basque Government to respect and promote the autonomy of women in the exercise of their sexual and reproductive rights. Also to strengthen the exercise of the right to abortion in health institutions and agencies dependent on or funded by the Basque Government. This is also a particularly important point. And also to strengthen this awareness and information in different fields, in the field of education and health, which are also of great importance in this whole subject. The same applies to the promotion of institutional coordination mechanisms through Emakunde and the provision of advice and training to different public administrations. I believe that in addition to the step taken at State level to amend the Criminal Code, which was very important, these measures to be able to advance here also in defending the exercise of that right accorded to women, was also important. And that is why I thank both the Elkarrekin Group and the EH Bildu Group for having been able to sign this compromise amendment together, because we cannot take a step backwards in the defence of women's rights, especially today. That here, moreover, we have adopted the second amendment of our Equality Act in order to further improve it and to make further progress. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u58	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. The word is yours, Mrs. Arri generousga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning again. Yes, it has been an important step here this morning to accept the adaptation of the law of equality. When I spoke of this point, I said that we had still many challenges. And such an example may be the subject we now dispute about. In January, this discussion of the day produced by the posters of the Gaste name. This march campaign, which is not only decriminal and offensive, is directly met with the right we have to decide about our bodies. And that's what I'd go to say if I didn't, or else I'd consider the other anectata. Knowing that it's not an aledota, knowing it's a very serious matter. I believe that the right which women have to protect their health of sex and reproduction is violated, the fundamental right to the intimacy of their own and family, and the right to the physical and moral totality of women. And these aren't just words. And the foundation of these is long past. Conventions on deleting all types of discrimination against woman. Already the United Nations Supreme Assembly 1972. in the year itself, he put it in article 12. The States have taken all the proper measures to remove the distinction of women against the physician, under the conditions of equality between men and women, in order to secure the access to medical services, including the family planning. Then in 1995, the United Nations of the United Nations on the wife of Beijing in the year of Beijing. In this conference it was agreed that the human rights of women are included in the right to control their sexuality and to decide freely and carefully. Sexual and multiplication includes health, pressure, discrimination, and without violence. In the same way, as has been said, three of March, on health and pregnancy voluntarily interrupted sex and reproduction, is also an organic law of 2010, which means: "The end of this organic law is to guarantee the basic rights of sexual and reproduction in the case of health, to regulate the conditions of breaking off the pregnancy voluntarily, and to establish the duties of public power." Of many other principles, therefore, we are not or at least our intention is not to question whether we are in favour of abortion. We're talking about rights and concretely speaking. We are talking about sexual and reproductive rights that are reflected in Goal 5, that of gender equality in Agenda 20 30. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Real equality of women and men is a universal legal principle recognized in various international human rights texts. And this agenda 20 30, which we are also mentioning every day in this House, promotes the commitment of the international community to achieving gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls through a specific and cross-cutting objective in our objectives. Our society continues to face fundamental challenges in achieving real and effective equality. And despite the fact that this equality is recognized in our legal system and the significant progress made in recent years, discrimination persists that goes from the most extreme forms, such as macho violence, to the least... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... In recent years, discrimination persists, ranging from the most extreme forms, such as macho violence, to the least perceptible, which occurs day-to-day in all areas, or even to this campaign which - in the marquees, which was also carried out in Gasteiz. Inequality between women and men persists in all spheres of life. The goals of this fifth objective of the 2030 Agenda include ensuring universal access to sexual and reproductive health and reproductive rights, as agreed in accordance with the programme of action of the International Conference on Population and Development and the Beijing Platform for Action. Sexual and reproductive health and rights allude to the rights of all persons to make free, informed and responsible decisions, which enable them to exercise full control over the elementary aspects of private life: on the body, on sexuality, on health, on relations with others, on freedom to marry, to have children, daughters, and, where appropriate, on the choice of the moment, of the companion, without exposing themselves to any form of discrimination, stigmatization, coercion or violence. This also includes the right to enjoy and express sexuality itself, the right to make personal decisions related to sexuality and procreation, as well as access to information. Mrs. Houseland has mentioned the funds of the inhabitants of the United Nations. I'd like to make a suggestion about the last report they've brought in, here, there was a chance of introducing ourselves to the legislature, and we were there. And about this there is a disturbing, disturbing drama. Only 55% of the girls and women are capable of making their own decisions in the three three dimensions of autonomy body. And although 80% of the cleared countries are laws favorable to health and sexual well-being, laws which guarantee the complete access of 75 of these to anti-Sortorical and 56 percent support integrated sexual education. The regulation, therefore, is well to be a juridic order, but it does not guarantee it. And that's why we are here to emphasize, highlight, and advance this whole thing, because apart from this legal order, there is a necessity for further commitment. And speaking of commitment, I would like to remark that long ago, in this legislature, there was a wager in favor of these rights, produced by the development of the population and by the collective rights of sexual and reproduction, the Mr. Iturate and its co-ordination. And the further side of this legislature is also a strong engagement to the equality and power of women. The removal of these rights unites all those who are present in this art of society, to deprive the girls and women of the ability to decide their own bodies, and to free themselves from the inequality and violence of the genus, which excites and strengthens them. As I have said, the course of the euscal institutions fighting for justice and equity is firm, and the defence of human rights has been the guide of all political action. We have seen him this morning at the very first point, and now he will continue to take away the obstacles which obstruct him. Thus, for instance, what is done of our Department of Health. Eukadin, it's a clinical procedure to end the pregnancy voluntarily, either by the same woman's request or by the aid of her partner or her legal guardians. Our health system guarantees this. Organnic Laws on sexual health and pregnancy voluntarily interrupted, this 2010 organic law regulates the conditions and duties of good practice. In it, within the sphere of sexual and reproductive conditions, and within the sphere of freely interrupting the pregnancy, the rights of acquiring preparations and services are obtained. The public health system finances every woman who has the right to comply with the conditions received in the law mentioned, and who has the right to the public health. And this may be easily acquired: On the Christmas site, in the Department of the Medical Department, all this information is available, and, citizens, if need be, the women know the course and access. Besides, we also have numbers, because the medical department publishes the report every year, last 2020, we have 2020 numbers. And the Euskadin 3540 women have lived a voluntary process of pregnancy here in Euskadin. We say ciphers, that report collects figures, but there are people behind those figures, there are women, and we have to keep going with them: protect them and guarantee their rights. Eta bukatzera noa, legebiltzarburu andrea. We would also like to mention, in a few seconds, the support of our party, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque group in the Congress of Deputies, for the organic law that amends the Penal Code in order to punish with prison sentences the harassment of women who go to abortion clinics. Guzti hau konutan izanik, araudia zein den, herri honen konpromisoa eta gure herri honetako erakundeen konpromisoa zein den ikusirik, beti askatasun eta eskubideen defendsan argi geneukan gaurko honetan erdibideko bat hartu behar edo sinatu behar genuela, ahalik eta zabalena. Eta horretara etorri da gaurko erdibideko hori. I'd like to thank all the teams for their honesty, and also for the honesty with which they're proposing, and for the other teams, we've all been picked up... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... for he has had the greatest part of his eloquence to the party, and to other groups. We have all received, we have granted our forgiveness, our generosity...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u62	Passing over to the band that have no corrections, Mistha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. I must admit that the first thing that has drawn my attention to his initiative is the contradiction in this matter. I really cannot understand why they call what is the right to abortion a reproductive right. Really, it's not the same. That's for starters. Otherwise, nothing new will surprise us. We can once again draw a decalogue and bring to this House a purely ideological proposition of law, of which it has also made a school between the nationalist parties and the Abertzale left. Under this Act, 16-year-old girls with a female body are expected to be able to abort free of charge without parental permission, from day to day and at the nearest medical centre. Do you really believe that a girl can face herself to what is probably the hardest decision of her life? At the age of 16, she is not prepared psychologically either to be a mother or to decide to interrupt an unwanted pregnancy. Your decision will never be made free because what that girl feels when she discovers she's pregnant is fear, anguish, uncertainty, just thinking about how the world falls on her. At that time what you need is the advice of your loved ones, that is, your parents, to feel clothed. She's not prepared at all to go out alone running to a clinic and end her baby's life. That girl who is suffering is not free to make a decision like that, to ruin her life with a unilateral decision of this stalemate. Let us be honest, in this House there are many parents, and I also know that with girls of this age, how many of you would like your daughter to come home one day and tell you that she has just aborted without consulting you, without your consent? Moreover, I ask you another question that I believe is not minor either, what role does the father play in this situation? Does not the parent have the right to give his or her opinion, at least, in such a decision? Good way to clear the way, gentlemen, the criterion of an immature girl above the advice of her parents, the advice of specialists, psychologists or doctors. Sexual maturity is a natural and gradual process that is forged over the years, while at the same time they are going to establish the ethical and moral principles of the child. Everything has to reach its time at an appropriate age, including correct information on the prevention of unwanted pregnancies. That mother, father, and daughter talk, which I'm sure many of you have had and remember, risks, preventive measures, consequences, isn't it? As a society, as parents, we must educate our children to prevent unwanted pregnancies and not to understand abortion as a contraceptive method, which is what is being treated here. It is our duty to defend the right to life as the most sacred, the most precious, and never to normalize abortion. Gentlemen, promoting abortion as a method of contraception degrades us as a society. The aborted baby is not the only victim, her parent will also be marked for life, don't forget. For this reason, we say that decades ago, since women in this country have achieved full rights and freedoms, we have full social recognition and decision-making capacity. And, one more thing, I, as a woman and as a mother, feel lucky to have been able to experience what it is to have children, is the best, no doubt, that has happened to me, is a privilege. And I'm sure all the women, all the mothers who are listening to me here and now they share it. So, before promoting abortion, I think it's important to educate our children about what prevention is basically about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u64	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over to Podemos, together the representative of the Anxiex, Signora Hatage.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u65	President andrea. Nik entzundakoak entzun eta gero, bakarrik nahiko nukeen gauza bakarra da eskertzea benetan erdibidekoa sinatu duten, berriz lehen egin dut éta berriz Egypta. I want to thank, sincerely and emotionally besides, the... I was going to tell the political groups, but, well, I'm going to tell the people who got this transactional. Not by chance are the same people who have fought for a good reform of the Equality Act that we passed this morning. So, thank you very much. And above all, I hope that this will be the prelude to a path of agreements in this area that will come.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mrs. Houseboy doesn't have to talk. Mrs Garrido mustn't speak. Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u67	Mrs Gorrotxategi, of course, in the defence of women's rights and in taking steps not to take a step back on that path will always find us the Basque Socialists. Mrs Garrido, you have come to this debate today completely obviating what your own party defended in the Congress of Deputies. And he has made reference to the importance of sex education, which we too share; that is why one of the points in the compromise amendment refers precisely to that matter. But then what is in his initiative is that, well, that the training of health professionals in general is improved or increased, that is, in general, that has to do with what we were talking about today here? I mean, he's done... has tried to get some points out of this issue because, obviously, and probably, she was uncomfortable in the very debate that her own parliamentary group defended at Congress level, in the Congress of Deputies, and in which, moreover, the two government partners did not agree because... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... defended at the Congress level, in the Congress of Deputies, and in which the two partners of government also disagreed, because the Citizens' Group voted in favour of the reform of the Penal Code, while the People's Party did not. But we are used to it, because in the field of rights in general, in the field of equality, you have defended one thing and have done the opposite. I'm going to make a reminder of things that you voted for. In 1978, in the decriminalization of contraceptives, the PP voted against; in 85, in the decriminalization of abortion in Spain, the PP voted against; in 2010, in the Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Pregnancy Interruption Act, the PP voted against; in 2014, Minister Gallardón tried to amend the Abortion Act and failed to do so. In 2015, the PP amended part of the Abortion Act by taking away the right of women between the ages of 16 and 18. And recently, in the Eurochamber, they have not been in favour of the recognition of same-sex couples throughout the European Union, nor of the fact that macho violence is a cross-border crime, as in the case of terrorism, trafficking in human beings and corruption. Think about it when you fill your mouth by talking about freedom, because for you freedom consists only of taking reeds in Madrid. However, for others, freedom is to defend policies that guarantee the exercise of women's rights, and not to take a step back in the defence of those rights. Of course, I am grateful for the effort that has been made, because I believe that the compromise amendment that we have signed today was important in order to continue to guarantee the right to women and the exercise of that right. And, Mrs. Martínez, this wasn't about an abortion debate, yes, not an abortion. Fortunately, legislation recognizes the right to abortion in the circumstances established within it. And Mrs. Martinez, all policies have an ideology, do they really believe that the law bites, for example, was not ideological? The limits are clear, the respect at all times to the Spanish Constitution, but in addition to ideology, it was necessary to face a reality of harassment that has been denounced by the women concerned and the professionals who worked in these health clinics in order to ensure that these women could exercise the right recognized today in our country legally. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u68	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Is the missile going to take the word? No, then, since it's over, we're going to vote together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Eubertarians, EH Collectors, and Escal Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; in favour of 65; the contrary is 7. Absence, 0; white; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u69	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the popular group of Euscals-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group-about 2020-2030 eucal strategy of the demographic challenge. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs Garrido, representative of the Popular-Cyans, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u70	Bai, eskerrik asko president andrea, lehendakaria, Sailburuak, legebiltzarkideok. I said that despite all the pressure this Member has been under in recent days to withdraw this initiative by land, sea and air, and especially this morning, that I take it as it could not be otherwise, with all affection and respect, because we considered it appropriate to maintain it. To maintain an initiative that we are calling for again, because this is not the first time we have done so, to the Basque Government, which refers it to the Basque Parliament, rather, to develop a strategy on the demographic challenge and then to this Parliament. Como deía, este debare no es nuevo. This debate isn't new. At the beginning of this legislation we brought a proposition about a demographic challenge, and we signed an agreement with parties that protect the government, and we asked him to bring a strategy to you in nine months' time. But unfortunately that strategy is on the table for now and we don't know it. It's true that a few documents have been made and they have been exploited in some documents, in four documents. But we don't know him as a specific strategy. And that's why we thought it convenient to propose this proposal again. As I said, this initiative is not new. Already the lehendakari himself in the general policy debate of 2019 posed us three major country challenges: demography, the fight against climate change and technological transformation. In the investiture speech of this legislature also the lehendakari pointed out once again that there is a generation of young people who see how the crisis conditions their expectations for the future, and that our country has to manage to reverse the demographic curve, and that in this sense it proposed an intergenerational pact... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... crisis conditions their expectations for the future, and that our country has to succeed in reversing the demographic curve, and that in this sense an intergenerational pact was proposed. We have seen the need to address this issue for a long time. We know that this government had it on its agenda, but, unfortunately, they have not materialized. And, in that regard, today we must once again give the Government an earful, because, Mr Lehendakari, we do not yet have that strategy in our hands, which is so essential and so important at this time to address one of the issues that must be a priority for your Government. And I am not saying this, but you yourself, as I have pointed out, have referred to addressing the demographic challenge in many of your interventions, including in the investiture speech that started this legislature. Of course, low birth rate is one of the characteristics of Western European societies if the population ageing rate is high. And since it could not be otherwise, Spain is no stranger to this reality; let alone Euskadi, where the demographic decline is unstoppable and projections for the future are very worrying. In the justification of my initiative, I refer to some of the data. As you all have, I will now bring to this House the data of 2020, where 14,721 boys and girls were born in Euskadi, 667 fewer than in 2019 and 6,000 fewer than in 2008. It is the lowest number of births since 1941. One of the main factors linked to the decline in birth in recent years has undoubtedly been the progressive delay in motherhood. Here, too, the average age of motherhood in Euskadi is above the average for the rest of Autonomous Communities: 33 years versus 31 years in the rest, as I said, of Autonomous Communities. He referred to the fact that we have received some working papers from the Government that are structured into four separate notebooks: general framework, stocktaking and international references, action plan, and summary. But, as I say, it is important that we have some working documents - it would be worse to have nothing, obviously - but they are not enough. They are not enough when the commitment made by both the Government, the Basque Nationalist Party-Socialist Government, the Lehendakari himself, of the House's own agreement - which I would like to bring here today again, by signing on 29 October 2020 - in which this group signed an agreement with the groups supporting the Government, expressly urging the Basque Government to deepen in collaboration with the other institutions in the development of public policies, in the promotion of birth, in support of work and family reconciliation, in the promotion of active ageing, in the promotion of effective equality between men and women, and in the fight against rural depopulation, among others. On the other hand, with regard to the demographic challenge, we were talking about forwarding within nine months a plan on this issue of an interdepartmental and inter-institutional nature, with cross-cutting measures containing a diagnosis of the current reality, measures to be implemented, funding, implementation deadlines and periodic evaluations of the actions implemented. After much longer than those nine months, we do not know the plan, as I say, even though we have had an opportunity to know those documents. But, of course, they are strictly working documents and, in accordance with the request we are making, insufficient, and the agreement which this Parliament itself adopted on the date to which I referred. On the other hand, I must also mention an important pact between the Basque Government, the deputies and Eudel - the pact for families and children - where there was already talk of increasing birth, increasing support for families with children, and constituting a country target. Euskadi, as part of European society, has the challenge of developing social, cultural and economic policies that face the progressive ageing of the population and the need to foster birth. This pact gave rise to the IV Inter-Agency Plan for Family Support 2018-2022. Then we have an initiative on this issue as well, and therefore I am not going to extend much on this plan, but we do have to say that some of the forecasts already contained in the previous plan, in the III Plan, with effect until 2015, 2011-2015, were clearly not met. The objective of convergence in aid of a universal nature with the European Union, which was the main objective of this plan, is not met. The evaluation was late, we had to ask for it in repeated initiatives in this Parliament. And also this strategy that will end its validity now, ends its validity already, because many of its predictions we have to say that they have not been fulfilled. Both the Council of the European Union and the European Commission speak, and the Council of the European Union in particular, in a document - "The way forward in the face of demographic challenges" - Member States are urged to develop and maintain an up-to-date demographic policy framework. Member States are encouraged to promote appropriate, innovative, coordinated policies that facilitate and assist families - particularly those with children - through various measures. Specific reference is made to child benefits, tax deductions on housing assistance, among others. I quote the most significant. The same goes for the European Commission. In January 2021, in the Green Paper on ageing, he spoke of fostering solidarity and accountability between generations. And, in our country, in Spain, we have the reference of the document "Strategy 2030 vs. the Demographic Challenge". Therefore, and in conclusion, we have to say that the demographic challenge is clearly a major challenge for Basque society. The dimension of addressing this issue requires a shock plan, as it is a matter of urgency, which includes actions in different temporal areas. Undoubtedly, some longer in time, but with enough intensity for them to produce real transformation levers in this... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... some longer in time, but with enough intensity for them to produce real transformation levers in this particular field. We believe that addressing the demographic challenge involves doing so from an absolutely cross-cutting perspective, involving the various institutions and departments, which is what the strategy we are calling for again today pursues. Mr Lehendakari, we are very late in drawing up this strategy, which, as I say, addresses once and for all the demographic challenge, the ageing of the population and the low birth rates. That is why today in this House we are bringing this initiative back to urge the Basque Government to draw up this strategy as soon as possible and to refer it to the Basque Parliament. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u71	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u72	Yes, thank you, President. We will discuss the demographic challenge in this initiative. The initiative we are debating today is exactly the same as that which the People's Group presented and was debated in this plenary on 29 October 2020. In that initiative we came to a compromise amendment with the People-Citizens Group, which referred to the need to draw up a plan on the demographic challenge 2020-2030 in nine months. We already have a working paper for the elaboration of the Basque demographic challenge strategy since the end of 2021. And it was important to have the strategy at the national level first, because doing the opposite without knowing what was included at the national level, is absurd. That is why I believe that this initiative which was presented in November by the People-Citizens Group should have been withdrawn in our opinion, because we already have the members to draw up this Basque demographic challenge strategy since the end of this year. But since we're here, let's get into it. Steps have been taken to move forward. The Government of Spain, led by Pedro Sánchez and the Socialist Party, is committed to territorial cohesion. We have demonstrated this since our arrival in the Government, implementing measures to ensure social justice, equity and equal access to public services. The Government's four axes of action for a just recovery include territorial cohesion as one of its pillars, along with digital transformation, ecological transition, but also gender equality. The Government of Spain has set the demographic challenge as one of its political priorities, raising it to the category of ministry, and today holding the third vice-presidency of the Government. For this reason, an ambitious plan including 130 measures was adopted in 2021, with a total budget of more than 10 billion between 2021 and 2023. 2021 has included performances by 18 ministries. For the first time, there is a cross-cutting programme on population challenges and combating depopulation. At the state level, therefore, we have the 2030 National Strategy, facing the demographic challenge, and this strategy has as its fundamental objective a country project that guarantees equal opportunities and the free exercise of the right of citizenship throughout the territory through the cooperation and coordination of all public administrations and the sustainable use of their resources. And this general strategy has been developed with the cooperation and cooperation of the autonomous communities and local entities, because to address the demographic challenge we must guarantee that equal rights and opportunities and freedom to choose, live where they live. Furthermore, the impact of COVID-19 on demography throughout the European environment must be taken into account. All this, on the basis of the achievement of the 2030 sustainable development goals. And this strategy must have a global and cross-cutting character, since it has an interdepartmental character that designs a joint and future response to alleviate the problem of the progressive ageing of the population, of territorial depopulation, and of the effects of the population (?)). But steps have also been taken in our Basque Autonomous Community. In recent years, Basque institutions have carried out direct and indirect actions that have affected the demographic reality, such as public policies aimed at families, reconciliation, co-responsibility, employment, housing or social protection. From there was born the Basque Pact for Families and Children, and the fourth Inter-Agency Family Support Plan. In the context of our Basque Autonomous Community it was important, and it is also important, to have a Basque strategy of demographic challenge 2030. The Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups attach importance to the demographic challenge, and this is why it was included in the Government Agreement, and where measures are taken to this end, both in the area of the elderly and in relation to young people, families and children, as well as with regard to migration and against rural depopulation. We already have a working paper to develop a Basque demographic challenge 2020-2030 since the end of 2021. As noted in this document, the situation... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... population challenge 2020-2030 since the end of 2021. As noted in this document, the demographic situation is a priority concern both locally and globally. And it is part of the strategic vision of the United Nations 2030 Agenda. Intergenerational solidarity and territorial cohesion are processes of medium- and long-term transformation. And you must take into account two complementary keys. First, demographic transformation implies a systematic and cultural change that must be projected in the medium and long term. Secondly, it is a priority to identify short-term impact actions that will help to change the current demographic trend. The aim of the strategy is to restore the balance of the population pyramid and to rejuvenate Basque society. Demographic change is, together with climate change, technological transformation and the recovery of the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic; one of the major challenges facing the European Union in the short, medium and long term. That is why it is of great importance to place the demographic challenge within our political priorities, both at local and autonomous level, at national and European level. There is also a need for coordination at different levels. In all this, we must take into account the differentiated differences and realities of women and men, giving great importance to including the gender perspective and equality between men and women. In today's initiative, neither the EH Bildu Group nor the Elkarrekin Podemos Group nor the Vox Group have tabled an amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group together. And that is why we are going to support our amendment in its entirety here today, which points out that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue working on the demographic challenge and recognises the path that has been taken especially through the working document already published by the General Secretariat for Social Transition of Agenda 2030, which has an interinstitutional and interdepartmental character and has served as a basis for the elaboration of a Basque strategy for the demographic challenge. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u73	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Today we have an initiative introduced by the popular-Ciudadans to discuss. About a year ago we had another, very similar initiative, as Mrs Garrido has confessed to me, and I began my involvement in the present moment: I went to the dictionary, looked up the definition, sought the definition of the challenge, and then made a small examination. I'll do it again today. What have we got? A purpose. What is hard to get, and supposes a spur for that, in this case, for institutions. And the demographic challenge operates on so many subjects, or rather, many of them constitute this demographic challenge which we know: the age of society, the loss of population, the inequality of men and women, migrations. But if we go out and ask people, perhaps it would be the lowest rate of birth that would be quick to discover. And that's where we must confess that we have a challenge, an important challenge. And we may call it a challenge, that le posses allem problem, o le potem illación queremos coeror o mejoror. And it is paradoxical that we have a situation that we want to reverse, but that is largely the result of a positive process, a positive process of recognizing different ways of conceiving the family or different ways of understanding what a woman is and that she has recently been recognized to have rights. It is an element which has rights, which has ceased to be understood as an element of reproduction and which is granted freedom. Freedom to decide about your own body and your own motherhood. And that freedom does not imply the right to be a mother, but also the right not to be a mother. And in this process the public authorities must focus more, this is not something that should be reversed. This is something that must be consolidated. But if we talk about freedom, freedom is also that whoever wants to have them can have it. And here indeed, we have a challenge. Unfortunately, we have work to do. Work is being done, but there is room for improvement and there is room for improvement especially with regard to a generation, my generation, of young people who find it difficult to form a life project. We're the generation known as Millennium, Zeta. I don't know what our name is. But we really are the generation of the two crises: the 2008 crisis and the covid crisis. A crisis that has implied that our generation has precarious wages, that in many cases they are false autonomous, that we are in contracts of practice that are not really contracts of practice, that there is an excess of temporality with respect to our jobs, and above all low wages. And many times we are the first to have to leave a company and the last few years to join when it happens. And all of this actually poses a problem so that we can make a home, emancipate ourselves, have a life plan and in this way help women and men, couples, have the number of children they want to have, have them when they want to have them and help that generational relief happen. Because talking about the demographic challenge is talking about the Euskadi in the coming years. And this is something that needs to be done... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... This generational relief must take place. Because talking about the demographic challenge is talking about the Euskadi in the coming years. And this is something that needs to be done. And this is something the Basque Government and institutions are doing because they have a challenge they are facing. The challenge was to move from abstract to concrete. And the institutions are doing it. It is being done by the Basque Government, the parliaments, the municipalities. And so are the different departments because this is something that has to be faced from interdepartmentality as well. It has to do with access to education, it has to do with youth policies, reconciliation policies, housing policies. This is something we have to face between all of us. And the Government has been doing so since the coordination of the General Secretariat of Agenda 2030, Social Transition and Agenda 2030, which has prepared us... Mrs. Garrido has said some documents. Well, it's a plan. They really are working papers that address - I believe that in concrete terms, I believe that in depth - the problem we have and that they also propose solutions. It has four parts of the working paper, it also has a general framework, an assessment of the measures taken and an action plan. It sets objectives, which are distributed according to whether they are general, strategic or priority; it sets objectives both in the short term and in the long term. It indicates what international successful references we have to turn to, who are responsible, that is something very important, to establish responsible. To be a small document, we consider it to be a really important document. It also sets out the weaknesses, opportunities and strengths. And whoever has read that document knows that it is not a self-contained document, it is a demanding document, it is an ambitious document and it is a document that, indeed, Mrs Garrido, will lay the groundwork for the future strategy that is being drawn up. It is a document on which this future strategy will be based. And we have not reached an agreement, indeed. But we have not agreed because the difference between your initiative and our amendment is precisely that working document. You presented an initiative in December 2020, we reached an agreement, we understand that we improve it, I suppose you will understand that not, but we come to an agreement and we move on to another scenario. Let's say we went up a step towards your initiative. We agreed to draw up a plan, not a strategy, a plan, which is here. And you today... or a few months ago brought us an initiative with the same text as your first initiative without taking into account either that we had reached an agreement or that the Government had prepared working papers. So, that eardrop, instead of being yours for the government, I think it should be ours for you, because we do not find that parliamentary loyalty of two groups that have agreed a document. And just with this, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u75	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari. Counselors. Well, in fact, it has already been said, the initiative has already been discussed before and we are finally coming to speak again about a text that in its literality has already been dealt with in this House and which, moreover, became a transactional and an agreement that had to materialize in the strategic plan regarding the demographic challenge. And I believe that the spokesman for the PNV has pointed out that, basically, what differs from the position of the People's Party and, in this case, from the parliamentary groups that support the Government is the work plan that has been sent to us whether or not it meets the pretensions that the People's Party had when it presented its original initiative. Well, basically. Because the rest of us, of course, have the same framework for debate. I think that all the parliamentary groups, and ours too, share the challenge, shares that the demographic challenge... At the moment, the situation in which Euskadi is living is particularly worrying, and in this respect it is necessary to have a shared reflection, of course not only in this House, but also to be a shared reflection with social actors, in order to reach common conclusions. We believe that the work plan that has been sent to us by the Government, in this case, eludes, let us say, that part. It is true that it has been an interdepartmental work, as has been said. But we believe that it eludes the part of the participation of organised civil society in a challenge that we believe is global, as are so many other challenges that, in fact, have already been mentioned by other parliamentary groups, such as the challenge of climate change itself. And I believe that there is an element in it in which we disagree with the People's Party or the People's and Citizens' Party group, and it is one of the causes that for us and ourselves is fundamental in terms of the demographic challenge, and it is therefore the material conditions of life that citizens live. Special mention has been made of youth. Indeed, the precariousness in which young people live is one of the fundamental elements so that they cannot form life projects that allow them to have children. And it is curious and, in our opinion, somewhat cynical to mention the loss of capacity of the democratic and social state resulting from the last crises, both the one of 2008, the financial one, and, subsequently, the one caused by the pandemic, in view of what were the answers that the People's Party, when it ruled at the state level, gave precisely to the crisis of 2008. And it turns out that right now, of course, we don't have the opportunities... or that part of society doesn't have the opportunities... or that the inequality gap in our country, also in the Basque Country, has been further widened. And in that sense... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... or that the inequality gap in our country, also in the Basque Country, has been further widened. And, in that sense, the discrepancy is important, because we believe that the People's Party has done little to promote material living conditions that will enable adequate and dignified life projects to be generated. On the other hand, we do believe that, with regard to the work plan he mentioned, in addition to the involvement of civil society in its development, we believe that we should also have work done in this House itself, as was once a monograph on the family, which should have been incorporated with regard to the actions that were shared and agreed within the framework of this Parliament in the definition and articulation of the diagnosis that should give of itself the concrete actions to be carried out or to be developed in order to be able to solve the problem that we currently have with regard to the demographic challenge. We don't call it... and in that sense we do have a certainly shared view... We do believe that work that has to face such an important challenge should have greater involvement by parliamentary groups, and I say, by civil society. And to establish a mechanism, beyond the bouncing of a work plan, a mechanism should be articulated by which we could participate and face a challenge like this, in a way – indeed, in our opinion – more serious than having sent us those documents which, in my opinion, I am not going to reject; I do believe that it requires an analysis of them. And, subsequently, the opportunity for us to participate in this with regard to whether they have to include more things, or some of those that may be included in them are not the right ones. And from there, too, open the fan. Because perhaps some of the elements contained in the document as indicators that promote this problem, we do not share them. For our part, we are going to vote against the original initiative of the People's Party because we understand that in addition to redundant, and not contributing anything new, we believe that it distinguishes us from a diagnosis of what are the causes that give rise to the problem that we currently have. And with regard to the amendment put forward by the groups supporting the Government, we are not going to share it either, because we understand that it is unclear at this time what form of participation is with regard to those work plans, and we believe that it is a debate that should be raised in a much more serious way. Reference has been made to the work done by the Government of Spain in this regard and by the Ministry; well, welcome either. And let us hope that this formula and work carried out on this issue will also extend to the Basque sphere, which has not been exactly the same as has been done. And, for our part, that's basically the position we're going to hold on to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u77	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u78	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, and good morning, good noon to all. Well, sometimes you come down here without quite understanding what you're doing, and knowing it will be a fruitless discussion: that nothing is to be gained by foundation, and that there is nothing to be gained by dispute by the nearness of post; that we shall not be able to save anything. And I'd say today is such an initiative. I admit I've been a member of that hobby that tried to withdraw the initiative, because I didn't see him... No, and it has nothing to do with the next subject, Mrs Garrido, but because they don't see any way out of your initiative? That is why I have decided to explain our position in a very simple manner, without entering into sterile discussions, because I honestly think that it is a matter of importance, and also that it requires a stimulant and significant discussion of one kind, because we are present in the presence of a great nation, and I share it, Mr. Díez. And we've often repeated it here. And I'd like to remember how, when we discussed this subject before, the Aubix Foundation made a discussion about the intergenarian pacto at the time of the Miramar Palace, and then they said that there was an inevitable and menacing boundary at this moment, that a rift is opening up, that its parents and their grandparents are better than they are, and when they come into the age and age of their youth, or when they come into their adult age, between the generation of uncertainties, are cooled? And sometimes, honestly, we're not so conscious. We have often said that challenges very important to this people are placed around the demography, about those things or elements that are not mentioned and mentioned. And therefore we ought to give political considerations and debates of the size of the matter. And I think this is not one of them. For, after all, what's the popular party bringing us today? Now once more, a proposition, in which he represents his particular care and analysis around the demographic situation, which puts on the table the plans that are entirely mistaken and interested for us, and in which I agree with Mr. Soto. The low rate and birth rate are the chief concern: a rather catastrophic reading. And let me tell you, Mrs Garrido, that this is where he always calls me the concerns of the party with small birth rates which encourages the anti-organistic policy of size. Mr. Soto has also mentioned to you. But, well, we've talked about this before, and I won't continue. But it's reported that you don't have a strategy of this kind... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... but, well, we've talked about this before, and I won't go on, but it's a fact that you don't have a strategy of this around you, and it's as fast as you can bring me a demography strategy. And I don't know where the initiative begins, well, that there was a similar discussion of his enterprises in the legislature, and then you agreed to bring a plan on the demographic challenge, with the team that you agreed to support the government, and now he proposes to bring in a strategy. I don't know if he sees any difference between them. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I understand them different, but, well, Mrs Garrido will have to explain that to us. And it is true that a man does not know the agreement between the agreement he has made at the time, and between the present proposition, does he not? It's because I didn't like it because it's not full right now. That's right. He has not fulfilled what has been agreed upon in the lapse of time, but this is only mentioned in the initiative. And this time he's asking for a strategy, right? In the meantime, I was told that his plan was to be the basis of the demography strategy. Mr. Díez said so, and I'll talk about it later. But in itself strategy is true. Mrs Garrido's right, she didn't bring it. Looks like he's gonna get it. You are right in that, but you show that your concern is too late for delay, but there is no time or methodology in your proposal. It is said, therefore, as soon as possible from your proposal, that there will be no further definition or specification of what we have now mentioned. At the time, as I said before, we believe that we have as many challenges as round demography, and that this country has no time to pretend to what it is doing, no? We have to march and we don't have time to keep doing what we're doing and that's why we're not going to protect this initiative. And it's on the other hand that the teams are making fun of me, isn't it? And I'd like to talk to you about this, too. It's said that the parliamentor asks you to continue working in the demographic field. And I must remember that the attempt which I have made in this field has been so made in the community of children and families. And this, after all, followed two ends: the reduction of child craft and the increase of birth rate, and both of them fail. The child's prophecy has gone up and we're in the smallest birth rate of the past. The same Urcullu, the President of the Urkullu himself, presented himself as an agreement in answer to the challenge of the demography, and I think failure is apparent. And now it seems that this treaty is not much to be discussed, and that we wish to arrive at the demographic challenge, is it not? But you have mentioned many of the problems you young men find, but you are in the government, and in some cases you are responsible for the conditions of life which produce certain policy. So we think self-critic should be done a little more in this sense. And then there's some mention of the way that's proposed, in a way, isn't it? The principal secretary of social transition and 2020-30 handhelds to the document that has been published, isn't it? Then it comes to us in December where a government deal is going. Here we were informed that the question about the demography affair has begun, that a reflection has begun between the departments and the institutions, and that, in some measure, it has been shared with Eudel. We have a document of work created that contains four notebooks. "Y se nos dice que el objectivol es identificior los compontes a prioritariums de una strategyo compartida y subraio lo de compartida." Yeah? We are told that it is decided to send this to the legislature and to the Eedel, to receive contributions, and so to open a part of the process, is not it? The document is being sent to us through three months' time range to make our contributions through the tramitals. And you've spoken here that this strategy will define "la Euscadi de los prosimos años, que tenemos que contorre todas y todas." You said what a challenge is, an end, the targets that share. And we're talking about a strategy that can condition a whole decade. I don't know. I dare say, now that you also have been introduced into these active exercises, this would require a different consideration, no? I, and our team, we understand different processes of our own. We understand another way of sharing the construction of the strategic buildings that must be shared. And it is plain that you understand, above all, the controversies which are inconsistent with the institutions which are in your hands. Perhaps that's why you've shared your thoughts with the Ordinous Foru, but then you've only told Eudel, haven't you? I don't know. At least we have no further explanation. A email with all documents. We have received no further calls to find out how the contributions are going to spread, to find out what the process will do, how it is intended to do things. Un proceso un poquito de Juan Palomo, huh? And here, in this legislature, there are ways of getting the support of these teams around the strategic grounds and forming such discussions, and making monographic discussions, isn't there? We sit down, we argue, we work a subject, we make a contribution, we come to some agreements, sometimes we don't. But no, you ask us here to send all these contributions, and then you decide. I mean, you know, I mean, you know, I mean, you know, I mean, you know, you know, I mean, Well, I don't understand that. In any case, I'll finish as I've begun: we are convinced that the subject is of the same importance as that of another sort, and that it requires positive and positive discussions. And that's why we're convinced that we're in front of a challenge, and that we understand if we have to share... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ...we're convinced. And therefore, believing that we are in the presence of a challenge of the people, and that it will be the ground to be shared, I would like to announce to you that our team will demand a monographic discussion, to agree or complete these principles of demography strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing the answer round, representative of the Basque Groups of Popular-Cellanos, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u80	[[Microphone Off spoke]] Well, you mentioned the demographic challenge, especially the important thing. I can say the same of your last proposal: that it is very important, and that we ought to do it in another debate, is it not? In a wider debate, perhaps. Well, I think we should respect the legitimacy of each group to present proposals. The truth is that I think the question is very clear. Because we are all sharing here, and we have agreed on the need to develop a strategy. We all share that there is no strategy. The initiative presented by our group calls for a strategy... And I don't know where the problem is. If we all want a strategy, we say there is no strategy. I don't know where the problem is. I think there will be other reasons. But, of course, I think that if we all agree on the importance of having a strategy that addresses the demographic challenge, which is an unmet goal to date by this government... I agree with Mr Díez that obviously some documents have been sent out to establish the future strategy, but you yourself have said that they are documents on which the future strategy is going to focus, but that it is not the strategy itself. And our initiative calls for the strategy itself. I therefore believe that this is not an absurd or extemporaneous initiative, and that it is absolutely necessary at this time, since we do not have this strategy on the table. These documents were forwarded because the initiative of this group is dated 26 November. The documents were forwarded by the agreement of the Basque Government on 14 December 2021. But, I say, they are documents on which that strategy will be based or based, but the strategy is not so. So our initiative has every reason to be. Obviously, Mr Soto, as I say to you, it certainly does not meet my pretensions as so far referred by the House. It's four working papers. I think we've all had a chance to read, we've all got them by hand, and I've made reference before. And this is not a strategy. It's not a strategy. In addition, it is explicitly stated in the agreement which was sent along with these documents by the Basque Government, which clearly states that it is not a strategy. Look, you mean that your refusal and your vote against this initiative is for the policies of the People's Party. I will simply remind you of the latest results in Castile León. Look how they have stayed and look at the results that the People's Party, which is going to govern in the Community of Castile and León, has had. Look also at the batacasso that they gave in Madrid, and the majority that Mrs. Ayuso took out. Or, look, without going any further, that it is now so fashionable, for look Galicia: four absolute majorities where you were left without any representation in the Galician Parliament. I therefore believe that the policies of the People's Party are valid and are being endorsed by the citizens, because I believe that it has already been up to us, on many occasions, to get this country out of situations where others have left them very badly and, in particular, from an economic crisis, which we will also return to the Spanish Government sooner rather than later and resolve the problems of the Spaniards, including those of the Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u81	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Sociists, Mrs Sánchez, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u82	Madam President, from the seat. Let's see. Mr Soto, at national level, you have pointed out that no amount has been mobilised, and that is not correct. Almost EUR 3.8 billion has been mobilised in 2021, of which 74% have been the subject of territorialisation to the Autonomous Communities. In this initiative, it is clear that a plan was agreed to. That working paper has been prepared. The strategy has been implemented at the state level. This working paper will be used to develop the Basque population challenge strategy. And... that's it. And what we are going to do is support our amendment to the whole, which goes in that line, because, necessarily, all strategies have to be coordinated with each other in order to achieve the objective pursued for that purpose. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u83	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u84	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr Soto, you have said that you are not going to support our amendment, because it does not set out the elements of listening, of participation. Well, Mrs Kortajarena I think she has been clear in her speech and has explained to her that the element of participation and listening by the parliamentary groups exists, another thing is that she does not like it, because it is by Tramitagune and so on. But she herself has stated that this element exists. Anyway, he said no... I don't know what he's going to vote for, because he said he wasn't going to support her. It is not clear to me whether they are going to vote against or abstain. I would invite you to abstain, because I believe that what you have said here today and what our amendment says are not at all different and I believe that they are absolutely compatible. On the other hand, Madame Kortja's, I'm grateful to you for the tone of −no−, but I'd like a couple of things... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ...compatible. On the other hand, Madame Kortja's, I am grateful to you for the tone of −no−, but a couple of things I'd like to explain. You said we're in the government, of course, we're in the government, and of course we're responsible. But here we all have government cares, and we've all had them. And I don't think it was because you weren't doing it because it was '08,' and I don't think it was because it was because of the covida. So we all have responsibility, and we all have responsibility. And finally, Mrs Garrido, Mrs Kortajarena has said, and sometimes they have bonded here without knowing very well what it was coming to or what it was or what it was about. I do know what happened here. We signed an agreement a little over a year ago, and I think you made a reminder, because as we had set a deadline to the government you said: well, a reminder, in a year to remind me. And you, when the reminder came to you, took the amendment that you tabled without taking into account the compromise that we reached, the agreement that we reached, and you said, come, the same, the same initiative. And that's what we have here today. But it also says: "No, it is that the Government has not drawn up a strategy, the Government has drawn up a plan". I invite you to go to the transactional we signed, which I understood... What I understood was that that was the point at which we had stayed, that was the common denominator that we had reached between you and us and ourselves, but you have come back further. And in that text, look for the word strategy, because I've searched for it and I haven't found it. The Government was asked to draw up a plan, and the Government has drawn up a plan, a document, which, as I have already said, establishes evaluation mechanisms, objectives, responsibility, short-term, medium-term, long-term, international references that can be used. I don't tell you... you said you were accused of your initiative being absurd. I'm not going to accuse him of his initiative being absurd. What I am saying is that your initiative is unfair, because if you agree one thing with a parliamentary group, what less if you start from that point of departure for future initiatives. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u85	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Mr. Soto, your word is yours. Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Garrido, don't make me remind you what Mrs Ayuso's family policy is, because you talk about demographic challenges, talk about Ayuso's relations with his brother, man, so anyone does a life project, so anyone does a life project with direct access to public funding, without going through any bidding process, of course, you have the ability to build a very easy life project. Certainly not like that of many young people in this country. And then he sets me as an example of Castile and Lion. Look at the birth data of Castile and León, and the people who are leaving for Mr.Mañueco's policies of the People's Party after 40 years. Finally, I want to say that putting, for example, these two cases, I think..., I find it surprising, and you have not come to appreciate in any case what I have said to you, which is the substantial difference between our parliamentary group and yours in your original proposal. And it is that the material conditionings that result from the crisis you have generated with your policies have indeed conditioned politics, in the end, a reality that prevents many families in this country many young people build a life project. And I think that is the substantial element by which you have no legitimacy to come here today to pose that this is a challenge and that you have the formulas to be able to tackle it, because you have not offered them while you have had the opportunity to do so. And with regard to the spokesman for the PNV, to say that his amendment contains an issue that we do not share, whether policies have been doing well to meet the demographic challenge, that is, it is a valuable assumption that the things that we do not share have been done well, because there are elements, as Mrs Kortajarena has said, that were established as indicators to reflect what needs to be done to combat the problem of the demographic challenge, that one was poverty, among them, and poverty, according to the latest statistics, increases the gap in this country, increases the gap of inequality, and in that sense, we in particular do not share it. And it's also that when you say that I haven't mentioned that there are mechanisms of participation, well, it's that... well, it's also been a somewhat rhetorical phrase of mine, but we think that what is set as a mechanism of participation for parliamentary groups, taking into account the challenge and the magnitude of what we're talking about, because it's not enough, it's basically what I was trying to tell you that there are no mechanisms of participation. We believe that this is a much broader debate that should involve civil and organised society, that parliamentary groups should have a choice not only to make contributions, and we will see what remains and how there is a contrast to the contributions that we make, but that there should be an already arranged space in which we could make an assessment and also make contributions that have a response, because today we do not know what kind of response would have those contributions that we would have made through the mechanism that you have put forward. And that is why we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u87	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the EH Group is yours, Mrs. Kotha's.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u88	As I have said, there are several challenges for this country that are strategic to this subject, and as we have observed that the Companion of the Basque Country requires discussions which go beyond the point of the Tramitade, so we shall see, as we have said, in the monographic discussion about the matter, we shall discuss the contributions, we shall arrive at the agreement or not. But we are not here to spend or spend time, as I have said, for the present, or for your initiative. ) To fake it. So, we're not gonna protect him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Since the discussion has ended... ...since the discussion has ended, we'll put the original text of the second proposal as the Basque Popular-Ciudados team. [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour six; in the contrary, 66; Absences, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u90	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eucabertians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 39; the opponents are 28; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u91	So, it's okay with the correction of the whole thing. On reaching this point, I interrupt this whole meeting until four o'clock. The meeting was interrupted at two-and-twenty-six.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u92	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll follow the entire meeting. Five point in theme list: "To bring in a new design for a universal family station. To discuss and to decide once and for all." The call of the proposed team, Mrs. Kotja's, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. And good afternoon to all. This subject, which we bring to the discussion to-day, is not new; it is one of those we have often discussed. We've also made deals around the subject, but, well, they haven't done it. And there's one thing left for another, isn't there? I don't know... I don't know if you remember it a little bit, but at 2017-2018, when the Euscal treaty was introduced to protect the families and children, it was a kind of announcement to make convegency with Europe when it belonged to beautiful families. In this sense, the third to aid the families. the consequences of the plan's evaluation report are IV for the support of families. on the planet, on the diagnosis that's been recorded, isn't it? And it is plain that we are far from the other countries of Europe around us, in relation to the fairness of childhood and children, and to investments. It was precisely in this evaluation that in the context of Europe the beautiful families became more and more important, and the deficit of beautiful Basque families in this sense. With regard to the niceties of the European Union, the public expenditure of this kind does not reach nearly a third part of the expense of the fairness of our environment, and of the gross internal profundity of the country. And this is not what the Basque People are saying, and they get your evaluation, and it's something that makes sense. Eta, bastetik, gizzarte politicaken arloko beast ikusmolde edo paradigma bat, gero eta gehiago nagusitu behar da famili politicaken arlean: inbertsio sozialarena. Eta Itunean was exactly zen, eta hori zona egin zenuten. I would say that the plan in its diagnosis recognizes that we have much room for improvement in supporting families and children, especially the most vulnerable, and that we are far from what other European countries are considering in this area. Considering these, the family plan starts a confession of the importance of children's growth at the cost of the increase of their children. And from these startings it was mentioned that the measures which tend to extend and to normalize these preparations would be re-designed, and that the direct aids which the Basque families now receive, the preparations and deteriorations to secure their incomes. This is not what Euskal Herria Bildu says either; it is reflected in the Fourth Family Plan, the importance of economic benefits in reducing child poverty, and, in general, the compensation of child-rearing expenses. And it is also something that the plan takes as its starting point, as well as the commitment to redesign the entire benefit system. Further, with this result, the principle of progressive universality is also the object of plans, is not it? that the strategies which have most successfully succeeded in facing the poverty of children have been founded on pretty qualities which tend to improve the welfare of all children, and especially those which have taken notice of the children who are particularly injured. And in this way, among the activities which he foresees, the purposes of the 5th purpose, he is properly placed in the hands of the 35th; ) To examine the chances of better integration with the deducing of the subsidies which are within the tribute, by paying special attention to the smallest revenues. It was obvious what an impact this herd might have on the expense, the coverage, progressity, and the reduction of poverty might be, as far as the measures are concerned, whether of tax-ground or other, to assist the families with children. Pero, de momento, este analis o no esta ha ho por lo menos a nostros no se nos ha hollergar. The question is IV. As he's in his last chamberlain on his family plan, he ends up in 2022, and the direct support of the Basque families now receive, the labors engaged in this new design are extremely slow, and that he increases our distance to the European countries, and our deficit to which we spoke before. In the reduction of poverty and inequality for children and children, in the reduction of the poverty which binds them to have children in their homes, and in the reduction of their children, the labours of which we are speaking are essential in the reduction of the poverty which women live in. And that's why the Basque Country insists that in order to design a universal system of family preparations on the way, they have no longer to wait, and to place themselves in the bowels of the advanced European nations. And seeing the data of the final poverty and social inequality, especially when we see that poverty has increased to-day, especially when we see that poverty accumulates here in families with children, we should say that the inevitable leap is inevitable, no? And that's why what we proposed today's initiative was very simple, isn't it? On the one hand, to bring this report in two months, and on the other hand, based on this report, to be universalized by the prosecutor in the first six-month of 2022, strengthened by focised help, and proposed a new universal system of family preparations which will penetrate into his design? This has been opened by the agreement with Poseidon, and, well, what we used to say was what we said: Bring me a proposition, for a new system, in order to be able to discuss a monographic discussion here, right? , rather than be tested in the corresponding institutions. No more or less. That is to say, bring a report that was planned to be made, and after that proposal was brought, that was also proposed or committed to in the plan, of complete redesign of direct benefits: benefits to guarantee income, tax deductions that Basque families today receive, right? And that we could discuss it, analyze it, make proposals, reach agreements, come to disagreements... Don't you? Considering that we're talking... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] Basques, isn't it? And that we could discuss it, analyze it, make proposals, reach agreements, come to disagreements... Don't you? In view of the fact that we are talking about revising a system of benefits which must be articulated for a long time, I understand that what we propose to discuss here seems quite reasonable. But what you propose to us now in your amendment is that you will already do it, that you will do it later. Now, who seem to have forgotten the commitments made within the framework of the Covenant on Families and Children, which, by the way, was also presented as being of a character... as long-distance, (?)arnas ludekoa bezala, they also seem to forget that this was already foreseen in the plan and take it to the demographic strategy, which we still do not know when it will arrive. And there they do reflect their intention to address the issue with the aim, it is said, of launching in 2023. And it is also said that "the economic valuation of the measure is done by this tax coordination body". And well, a little what they tell us is that what they promised they were going to do, because they will do it later, and they will do it in their air. Well, after that, of course, we've already made it clear in the morning that if we were allowed to make some contribution in tramitagune, right? But we are building long-distance policies, you will not always be there in the government. There is a possibility that one day they will not be in the Government, and then we believe that it is very important that, in the face of these challenges that we were talking about in the morning, we can make reflections that are paused, that are, as I do not know, discussed among all of us, and that even in some respects they can be agreed. And it's a pity that today you couldn't make a deal about what you were going to do about it, you said you would do it, and I think it's pretty amazing. Things I don't know if they can go on forever. Moving from the pact to the plan, from the plan to the strategy. Is that true when the commitment to do so has already been made and do we have a growing problem of inequality and social exclusion that affects the opportunities of boys and girls, emancipation, the decision to have children or not and to have a decent life? You were talking about it yesterday, I think, in a seminar on demographic challenge. With what they heard yesterday, do they consider such actions to be extendable?, is this retardable when the data from the last survey of poverty and social inequalities make it clear that having children in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia is a risk factor of poverty, that poverty accumulates here in families with children in charge of it?, is it extendable when child poverty grows in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, and poverty is inherited?, can a commitment be postponed over and over again knowing and recognizing in your own plan that the current benefit system has super-identified problems in relation to increasing gender inequalities and leaving out their lack of economic vision, precisely to the most vulnerable people, for example, by their way of payment?, is it possible to converge with Europe, making Swedish? I do not think that it is possible to converge with Europe without doing anything different, without even doing that to what you have undertaken to do. We think it's time for us to arrive at the right thing. It's an old commitment, ya toca. It is also time to give a leap in order to direct our accepted defense to European countries in order to assist the establishment and to aid the growth of the families. And I believe that we must consider, for instance, the possibility of making a universal preparation for children, as in several countries in Europe. A direct scholarship, unmixable income, which can be set up as the universal right of children. Why not? At least let's discuss it. They've got it in Germany, Dinamarcan, or Ireland. Belgium, for example, is 145 euros. Well, let's check it out. It can be said that countries in northern Europe with more developed protection systems tend in general to rely solely on universal benefits. Others combine these preparations and remove them. Pero well, let us examine it, let us discuss it, and see what an example it is. Let's get organized and take the training system every day. Let us put in the logic of families, which are more and more numerous, a logic to protect families in the uncertainty that rises. The logic of securing the possibility of living well for each of the members who compose those families. And the desed luego, in a logic of equality. Let's take a look at the amount, the terms of access, the fashions and compliments that can be, and the financial management. Let's take a thorough study from feminism. Let's look for families that are vulnerable, and the formulas to protect the children and teenagers in them in a special way. Let's direct the well-known Gaps with those days of preparation. Let's examine, for instance, how much we spend (... and the number of families remain outside of them. For example, the most vulnerable families are excluded from this protection because they often don't make an income statement. Let's take a look at these worms. The state of the Hobeari must be the real growth of an aid. Let's set up a system that will seriously consider the expenses of growth, a system that will improve both children and teenagers, and their relatives' conditions. We believe now that the time has come for rethinking the children's expenses, and that the children and their relatives are particularly vulnerable to protect the most vulnerable of them. And we don't understand the retrospect of this discussion. I think we've already said that it's urgent to respond to the demographic... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... I'm going back again and again. I think we've said before that it's urgent for a demographic challenge. This question of ours to-day is one of the other subjects which lie in that belly. Even this morning the law of equality has been tested in this legislature, which also concerns these disputes of correction between men and women. And we think it's urgent to get to the point without waiting again. It's common, isn't it? We don't have to leave what can be done tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. González, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u95	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good evening. We have discussed at the previous point, at the point before eating, about the demographic challenge. And this point has a lot to do with the previous one; in fact, they are intimately related. In this initiative by Euskal Herria Bildu we are talking about the IV Inter-institutional Plan for the Support of Families and a very specific issue, such as the lack of a necessary report, which should be made, and which, at the end of the plan, is still unfulfilled or at least not presented in this House. Actions and objectives not met. We agree on that, and we have reflected it by reaching agreement with the proposing group. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we appreciate that agreements are reached in this House, but then they are not materialized. And then, we ask ourselves, what are these agreements for?, how do they affect citizens?, do they generate confidence? Failure to comply with these agreements implies a lack of commitment, but above all in reducing child poverty. It supposes not to want to address even something as basic as the study is to know the impact that will have some measures that, in fact, must be implemented as soon as possible. And in the absence of government data, there are organizations that are giving them. And, for example, there is the last Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey that says that child poverty has increased in the Basque Country by one and a half points in two years, reaching 11.7% of the population under 14, the highest rate since 2008. Because the rise in inequality... And I would like to remind you that 10% of our fellow citizens are currently living in poverty. It means that there are neighbors and neighbors of ours who must choose daily between eating or paying rent. And that there are boys and girls in families with severe poverty, which are also boys and girls who suffer from school segregation, coincide with the concentration rates of the education system, with those families who suffer the most from the digital divide, with those who live in families who have to choose between buying clothes or heating, and, most importantly, that there are boys and girls who have recognized that they have gone hungry in Euskadi in 2020. There's more data. For example, the OECD has also drawn attention to the lack of investment..., to the lack of investment in children and, in particular, in support of family income. Euskadi, as in so many other aspects, is not an oasis. Even in the working papers that have been sent to us, they recognise that we are far below the European average of investment. He literally says: "There is no recognition of the family diversity present in our society, and it translates into public policies to support families that do not reach all families." "That the situation of single-maritime families requires...", that of single-maritime families, for example, "an urgent action because 40% is at risk of social exclusion". More data, things we already knew before the pandemic, and these are textual words of the document that the Government has attached to us, is the balance sheet of the Demographic Challenge Strategy, three points. One says: "The difficulties in reconciling work and family life, gender inequalities and the lack of co-responsibility in the upbringing of children and an improved model of benefits for reconciliation are also maintained." A second point that says: "With regard to child poverty, the poverty differential associated with the presence of children in the home persists, as well as the low-pro-child economic benefit system, which reduces poverty among families with children less than necessary". And a third point that says: "And, in general, there are low levels of public spending on family and children in relation to the average of the countries of the European Union". And the fourth plan is going to come to its completion and the balance sheet we're afraid it's going to be negative. In fact, this is already announced, that the plan is still in force and, like other public policies, that has been affected by the pandemic and the impact of the covid. Thus, in addition to what was originally envisaged, the impact of the pandemic led the Basque Government to launch the Covid Fund with additional social assistance. These measures have an impact on the demographic reality. But what happened? That we wish to remind the Government that this year they have made a cut in the budget of the Covid Fund, in particular that of supporting families. And, in fact, the only thing developed was last year's Covid Fund. Apart from this, but very closely related, we do not understand the delay in the issue we are discussing today. And even less the justification for the pandemic. And even less the justification that now is not the time because we are developing a new and theoretical framework of analysis. It is not understood that parties supporting the Government cannot subscribe to the points of our compromise amendment. And more in view of the fact that it was a commitment announced at the beginning of this legislature. It is still paradoxical that there is a need for recourse by way of a non-legislative proposal to give impetus to actions that are commitments entered into four years ago. And above all, in its future Demographic Challenge Strategy, proposals 4 and 5 and 6 go in the same direction. The third point of our amendment concerns precisely two reforms. A reform and a programme that has already been announced by the Basque Government, and which we understand should accommodate the design of a delivery system... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... of our amendment deals precisely with two reforms. A reform and programme that has already been announced by the Basque Government, and which we believe should accommodate the dissension of a system of universal support for child rearing and reduction of child poverty. Nor do we understand the difficulty in subscribing to this point. In conclusion, we have, and the Government has, clear, up-to-date proposals - the Demographic Challenge Strategy, the Inter-Agency Family Support Plan - that would support structural improvements on paper and that are commitments - we understand - to which they must respond. But we do not see that they just materialise in direct commitments. Why again and again going around on studies and diagnoses instead of already deciding to move tab? So we support the original initiative. Because if we want to strengthen the system of child-rearing benefits, which will enable us to eradicate child poverty, we can continue to diverge or consult, but we will not be able to avoid addressing what everyone points out today: that the economic capacity of households for child-rearing needs to be further enhanced; that public care needs to be strengthened. And that, for that, they have several possibilities: to increase benefits, to undertake a tax reform that universalizes the scope of tax deductions for the protection of all children, and even that it is desirable to do both. In addition, it strengthens the educational, health and child welfare services. There's no more. This is something you have to do yes or yes. Moreover, there are those who are doing so in the face of the inaction of the administrations. Children's Platform and Unicef, for example, have already done excellent work by setting out scenarios for a refundable tax deduction, which can serve as guidance for what is requested in this pnl. Please explain to us what this initiative contains so that I cannot subscribe to it. And I encourage you to vote in favour of our transaction. Because if you don't, no one will understand your position. And, in itself, trust and commitment are always closely related to action; trust is lost when our actions are not consistent with the commitments we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u97	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. The chief physician of Ercoren and Artola generouss, good afternoon again. Well, members of the law have to say that family policy is a priority for our teams. We've proposed different proposals both in the previous legal proceedings and in this law, and today we've also introduced a proposition about the demographic challenge about this theme about the strategy of the Eusko Tribunal. We must say again that in this particular area several accounts have not been completed in the family police department. And, well, we've introduced several of the initiatives from this line both in the previous law and in the law. I have seen with great interest the initiative of EH Bildu. I believe that more interest with which Mrs Kortajarena has read initiatives on the demographic challenge, despite sharing the objectives of the previous initiative. And it is true that, in relation to this particular issue, there is one outstanding issue, in relation to what the IV Inter-Agency Family Support Plan points out. This is where we also have to criticise the government. I referred earlier to the many criticisms that we have put on the table over the years regarding the inaction of the Government itself, regarding family policies and the fulfilment of its own commitments. Because the III Family Support Plan, Inter-Agency Family Support, ended in 2015 – it was 2011 to 2015 – and the IV Plan was approved in 2018 with effect until 2022. Therefore, a delay that was not understandable, which has been understandable in the development of this plan. But it must also be understood that the evaluation itself marked in the III Family Plan was also not done in time and form. In this sense, successive delays lead us to the situation in which we are in. And through this initiative, as I said, EH Bildu, proposes the fulfillment of one of the forecasts of this IV Plan. As they point out, in particular, action 35 of the fifth objective of the Family Plan. We can agree with this, but I have also been quite looking forward to seeing the compromise amendment announced by EH Bildu, because as well as the justification for the initiative put forward clearly shows the request as marked by this action 35, it seems to me that the final text of the amendment agreed by the two groups is somewhat confusing and that other issues are being introduced. To point out at the end that even in the third point it was one of the issues taken up by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, which also refer to the reform of the GIR, of the Basque system of income guarantee, of the law that is pending, which is another of the commitments of this Government. I have not quite understood this inclusion, because I believe that the process of this amendment will take place, and, even if it is related matters, if, as I have been told and supported here, a point-by-point question was raised, because we are going to stick to a point-by-point issue, I believe, which would have led to a more accurate request for the compromise amendment, in line with the original request for the initiative. We do have to say that we have amended this proposal. We didn't want to circumscribe. I know Mrs. Kortajarena is going to answer me, Eta berak esango says... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... propuesta. No nos queríamos circunscarir. Ya sé que la señora Kortaja, me va a contestar, and he'll tell me that his proposal was a definite proposition. Yes, I understand, but at this moment we're all right, seeing that time has passed, and that it's been four years, especially since the fourth plan began, we can see that it's best to ask for a job that's not made for Euskion, and especially the measures that haven't been started. As I was saying, and I'm going to make a brief summary, because I don't want to extend anymore, we all know, I've tired them of... and I will continue to tire them out, I have to say, as long as the Government does not comply with family policies to the extent that we have, which has a commitment to Basque society, we, as we say, as I have maintained myself in my previous intervention, for clearly unfulfilled commitment, is all that has to do with the demographic strategy. With regard to family policies, as I said earlier. The fourth plan arrived late, the third plan was not fulfilled in many of its forecasts. We were talking specifically about converging on aid with the European Union in 2021, and that has not been... has been fulfilled by far. The instruments needed to comply with the provisions of the Third Family Plan came with a great deal..., very late, the support provided in particular, as well as many other issues. In short, we can understand that the initiative is timely in the sense that it was proposed, but we also understand that the compromise amendment finally subscribes because it is a little confusing. I think they had to have... It was a concrete initiative, because, of course, the argument I was given was that I was not taking anything from my initiative, because it was very broad and it was by (?) elevation, but then you too in your compromise amendment introduce other issues, take the time to introduce other issues. It was your decision and I obviously respect it. And with regard to the amendment put forward by the government group, well, it forwards it throughout the strategy. Well, it is an option, and it is not enough for us, but, well, it is the option that they have decided and it is the debate that we have also asked for in the previous point. But of course, to refer it to a whole strategy that we do not have yet on the table, because it is also a bit curious. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u98	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u99	Thank you very much, President. It is up to this point to discuss the system of family benefits. And here too, we are talking about equality, because the fundamental issue underlying family policies, those that we have played in the past and those that we have to take into account in the future, are expressly linked to the issue of equality, equality of women and equality of opportunity without limitations for socio-economic reasons. It's been a long way. Our Autonomous Community has been a pioneer in family support policies, but we need to continue to move forward to further improve and develop the entire structure we have, because we have members, we have the fourth Family Support Plan, which we have since 2018, and which has already proposed a paradigm shift in family relations, which is what is reflected in the analysis of the pact signed in December 2017 at the Basque Council of Families and which has a broad consensus. And the main feature of this new paradigm was the shift of emphasis from policies aimed at reparation, to other policies aimed at preparation and prevention based on the consideration of family, educational and gender equality policies, among others, as a key and fundamental element for not only social but also economic development. This plan is still in place. You'll have to wait for your evaluation, which is close, and rely on it. We also have at state level the 2030 Demographic Challenge Strategy, with which the future Basque Democratic Challenge Strategy must be perfectly aligned. We have discussed the previous point of this plenary on demographic challenge. We have already said that since the end of last year we have had the working paper that was necessary to be able to address our Basque Demographic Challenge Strategy, and that it was also necessary to wait for the completion of the Demographic Challenge Strategy at the national level, because there must be coordination between all of them. We have just pointed this out and we have just discussed it in the previous point, as I said. On the other hand, we have a Basque income guarantee system, which clearly reduces the real poverty rates of the entire population by 36%, and which we are about to reform to improve it, and also to include, within it, everything relating to Vital Minimum Income. Obviously, that is a commitment of the Government. It is still in time, the deadlines for its submission are being met, and the start is about to come and see within this House all about this reform of income guarantee income. But they're just a piece of protection... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... all matters relating to this reform of income guarantee income. But they are only a part of protecting our system, as that must be complemented by a long-term family policy that serves to change trends. Furthermore, we know that in order to achieve the results we want in the medium and long term, a long-term stability and road map must be maintained. And that is why we - the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group - tabled an amendment to the whole, stating that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to develop this 2030 Basque strategy for the demographic challenge and its timetable from the shared inter-institutional sphere, because we believed that this Basque strategy is, of course, complete and joins all the different members I have pointed out so far. This is the coherent thing and what we have defended in our amendment as a whole. We did not agree with the need to have that report in the next two months. We are very close to that evaluation of the Fourth Family Support Plan, and that a new universal system of family benefits will have to be introduced in six months. Elkarrekin's group We could see what he was asking for was the same thing, but he was putting it on in the first quarter. Obviously, in the compromise amendment that has come between the EH Bildu Group and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, they have taken over the first half because, man, we are already in March, because they were hardly going to be able to bring in within this first quarter. We didn't agree either. We believe that the main problem of an excessive burden of tax expenditure - in which you place a great deal of emphasis on all expenditure, on family support policies - lies in the fact that families with less income benefit to a lesser extent from these deductions and deductions, since only families with sufficient income to be able to make deductions can use it effectively. That is, middle- and high-income families benefit from these tax breaks, while low-income or non-income families have to use the minimum income and income guarantee system with which our system relies. We have a family and childhood strategy, we have the pact, we have the plan. The evaluation will be carried out in the near future. With this, we consider that this is what needs to be done: to complete it also with the Basque Strategy of the Demographic Challenge. We were already counting on that working paper to be able to do so, which is a very extensive, very comprehensive document and an important document. You have made a proposal. We have put forward another proposal in our own initiative, and that is what we are going to defend: the proposal that we have taken up in the whole amendment, signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group. Mrs González, you said in your speech: "Why do studies, why do diagnoses." Well, man, in your proposal, what you do is you go back to doing a study. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u100	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. When we had received and seen this experience, it was about bringing us a new design for a universal family preparation system, and seeing that in the other parts of Europe we are told that we are far from having children and children to protect, or that we need to raise a view or a paradigm between other things, which is about social investments. It was clear that we had to raise our focus rather than bring a new design for a universal family preparations, set out long-breathing lights, and make a long-breathing and extraticles. I'm just saying about this proposition known as 2030 Euskal strategy in the world, about the eucalyptic strategy of a challenge we have on the level of − or at least on the level of the rich world. Being at a crossroads, it is necessary to raise your head and look far, from our self-portrait, which has all its power in such a subject, and to put it into the service of a world-wide challenge. The demographic status constitutes the subject of priority, in which, from a global point of view, it belongs to the strategic area of 2030 handhelds of the United Nations. The European Union has also shown that one of the future inclinations of democracy is more and more independent than the European Union, and that the Council of the Union is the means of following its demographic challenge. In the course of recent years the euscal institutions have produced directly or indirectly a demographic reality with the leading and modern public policies, families, constituency, reproaches, employments, dwellings, or social protection. With these we must necessarily place, coordinate, and join together the universal systems of family policies, or of any possible family preparation. The most significant example of what I am saying is the Euskal treaty for family and childhood, signed January 2018, Euskal and Foru Index and Eudel... [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] ... The most significant example of what I am saying is the Euscal treaty for family and childhood, signed January 2018. From the Basque and the Modals and the City Hall, and first from the Basque Council of the Family. It forms a page of avenues for childhood and family police, and in other respects for the protection of Familians. The organizational plan is complete. He who has mentioned it seeks to form a co-ordinately co-ordinated whole of the beauties of which he will answer to two phenomena. On the one hand, the low rate of birth, and above all, to end with the duration of the traversals which prevent men from having the number of children they want. And, on the other hand, to reduce as much as possible to the poverty of the state of poverty, which has prevention and children, as much as can be expected from the inequality of generations. And if this family pact brought a change of paradigma into ours by establishing the idea of social investment in ours, we must now put this family into alliance with so many other kinds of government, we must submit to a greater challenge. In this respect we are both concerned with the action which is founded on the principles of great agreements. It is necessary that a great synthesis should challenge this challenge, for it is at stake on the next decades of the projection of our country. Hence the aim is to promote a change of tendency in a short term, and to render this tendency tolerable, permanent in the middle. The entire strategy and actions must be informed by the gender perspective and the cross-sectoral approach. The aim is to create the conditions that allow people, if they choose to do so, to be able to parallel motherhood, parenthood with other aspects of their life plan and to have the number of children they want whenever they want. We would have to place support for the construction of family projects and birth support at the level at which the best performing countries are found in our environment. And the goals that are set in what is still, still, an open working document is to aim at changing the downward trend in the birth rate in 2024 and increasing it by 15% in 2030. We will have to reconfigure the model of support per dependent son or daughter and increase its amount, proposing a support per dependent son or daughter that reconfigures, unifies and raises the stimuli that families receive with a prospect of progression from 2023 to 2030. At the moment, and with a view to its implementation, the age at which aid would be maintained, its quantification, financing and regulatory criteria are being studied in the first phase. All this with the aim of its launch in 2023. The strategic activity must be directed to have as many children as each family chooses, and the absence of the first motherhood and fatherhood must not be for the defence of its well-being. In like manner, the prevention of child-pobez, producing opportunities for personal life and familiar projects, proceeds from the multiplicity of family models. And all this has to be agreed to calculate the amount of increase of the average average of an internal product aimed at the investment of economically a demographic challenge, by adding extra budget resources. Here's the great work that the organ will already have for the co-ordination of taxes. It is indisputable, on the other hand, that the absence of childish wisdom must be another end. It will encourage the equality of children and teenagers, who are in the danger condition of poverty and social neglect, to design and start a security strategy or program for children. The guarantee of education, society, health, and domestic service, by producing a series of effective and effective access to a few of 2020 people's poor society and the difference of the Incestian society, and the absence of protection and multiple deteriorating circumstances. A strategy with principles, as it is about finding and promoting the most appropriate ones at this crossroads. And we understand that there can be no other than dialogue, cooperation - which in the current context is demanded in all directions -, perseverance and proactivity. The unprecedented emergency context in which we live requires paradigm changes, yes. The first question is not where the problem is and who is the culprit, but where the solution is, how we build it among all of us and what contribution each and every one of us has to make. There's a strategy here, a major strategy for the future of our country. And the road this strategy leads to is open until the 31th of March for the contributions of various agents. We can do it politically, or as the law: the pin, then, when once again, with open hands, sometimes demands a monographicographic when it presents itself as a threat. All because of this, and we lack an agreement, we will keep our correction. To the repenter thus says: "The U.S.P.A. wants to run a challenge for the demographic 20-30 Euskal strategy and its calendar from a shared field of organizations. He also demands that the axis and initiative of this strategy should be pushed forward, and that his influence and the budget should be referred to the projection of a decade. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u102	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. In a group that has no corrections, Mistha mustn't speak. In answer, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Kotha's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, Mrs Garrido. I read your enterprises with great age; therefore I advised you to retire. Mrs Sánchez told us that she did not agree that this report should be brought in, and then that this redesign proposal proposed in the original initiative and in the compromise amendment should be brought in. He felt that his amendment, which was to do so in the Strategy, was more coherent. The point is that that report referred to in the initiative and that proposal you have undertaken to do so already. It's not something we've come up with. These are two commitments that are reflected in the previous Family Plan. They're not new. What we ask you to do is to fulfill what you have committed. You think it's more consistent to say, "We're not going to do it. We'll do it later." Well. But, well, from there, I have very little to say. And then, if I agreed with some of the things that were coming up. We were putting forward a monographic discussion precisely for that, so that we could all bring our proposals, nothing more... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... some of the things that were coming up. We were putting forward a monographic discussion precisely for that, so that we could all bring our proposals, nothing more. And then, a long-breathed discussion, or a long-breathing strategy or reflection, was it not? I'm talking about the family police and the European conversion and all that. The fact is that you told us all about it when the families and the children appeared in the Precinct treaty. Just about all the things you've been talking about here, we were told about then. It was then proposed a long-breathing strategy. So you proposed to make this paradigm change, and to reach you, the paradigm of social investment. It was then proposed that we should have this conformity to the politics of our neighbouring countries in Europe. That's when you set it up. And I don't know whether he had it in 2017 or 2018, I'm confused today, but it was in that context, and it was also a pact that had been introduced to a high pump. And now, coming here and saying: "No, we won't. Now that we're going to decide what we're going to do is to make a long-breathing strategy." For then you have placed some ends here, and you have assigned them to the child-poriziose, and this and that, and all of them, in this pact where all these ends were marked. And I said before, in the previous discussion. In fact, on these objects marked −bat was about to increase the birth rates, the other was the reduction of child craft, which is −, in both cases, child poverty has gone up from Elisabet... Mrs. González said what a climb he's had, and we're at the lowest rate of birth. So, I think we can sit here and play the discussions over and over again, long-breathing strategies, short-breathing, but sometimes because they're short-time, sometimes because they're short-cut, the point is, you've got a couple of things to do here, that report comes in between you and you don't do it. And now you're telling us that you're going to make another long-breathing strategy and that's where they belong because that's what's being recorded in the demo strategy. And, clarro, even before that, when the Family was introduced, we brought here a monographic discussion. Not like a threat, huh? For then, when we brought this discussion of family monographics and demography into this parliament, you all agreed to the perfection of this dispute. And I also argued with you then. And we got plenty of deals, too, some of them very important. But one, specifically, was concerned with the rediseñum system, 2017-2018. After that, when the plan came, you didn't do that deal. And now you're telling us that you're going to do this in a new long-breathing strategy. Well, poes, like Santo Thomas, "Ver para creer."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together the representative of the Podemos Ankerz, Mrs. González, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u105	First of all, Mrs. Garrido. To comment, yes, that our amendment, in principle, completes the original amendment. I believe that anyone who has negotiated an amendment knows that they always end up more complete than they start. And with that it seems to me that you are looking for an excuse not to subscribe to it. But in any case, you have not subscribed to it, but I invite you to vote in favour of it. To Mrs Gloria Sánchez, to say that we do not ask for diagnoses, we do not ask for further studies, we only ask those who have committed themselves to be made and to bring them here. We're not asking for anything new. Yellow rash, perseverance has mentioned. Perseverance, for that is what my group in the opposition is going to have in order to continue to demand the commitments to which they have to respond. Where's the solution, he said. Sometimes the problem is the solution itself. Hands open, yeah, yeah. Hand open, but how long? When? With broad hands, time slips between fingers. And I'd like to thank my dear Kortache's to examine our contributions, discuss our contributions, and at the end make up a few in the middle of the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mrs Garrido, representing Popular-Ciudados, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u107	Bai. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, to tell Mrs Gonzalez, also with all the affection, that a longer proposal does not mean that it is more complete. I believe that it was clearer to have adhered to Action 35, which was the clear request, and above all to adhere to the text of the action contained in the Fourth Institutional Plan of the Family. I understand your positions on other issues, but I think they didn't come up today. And if you had picked up the proposal as it stands, this group would have endorsed that amendment. But it wasn't like that. And, therefore, it was his decision. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u108	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Socialists. Mrs Sánchez... He mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u109	Yeah. Lehendabizi, González andreari weretzutea nahi nioke. You spoke in your first intervention of the difficulty to subscribe... how difficult it was for us to subscribe to the points. None. In fact, the same one that you have to subscribe to our amendment, the same one. Because the points you're quoting are in that Basque Demographic Challenge Strategy... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] ... The same. Because the points you're quoting are in that 2030 Basque Demographic Challenge Strategy. You were talking about perseverance. Of course perseverance. As someone in family policies and in his reflection on what the demographic aspect is, what he wants is that since the Family Pact was adopted in 2022, which has been four years short, well, as someone pretends that in four years the whole demographic aspect is turned around, it seems to me that he is analyzing, not bad, fatal. I mean, either this or it's done with perseverance and by... by... sorting out all the difficulties that the times can offer or won't make. Y, hand open, always. Arms open, always, Mrs. González. Mrs. Kortja, when you first spoke, you used to say that we're far away with Europe, and... Yeah, well, it's true we're far away. And I think it has been confessed to me several times since we began to discuss the family and so forth of the covenants. But I tell you the same, that is to say, in such pretty things, the North is placed, as an example, in the Basque Country, the North in the bosom of the Common-wealth of France. And these politics of the French State have also their defects. And as to the demographic problem, with all their politics, they are broader and much larger than ours, but with all their politics they have not disturbed the demographic problem. And social investment is in our house. The family was brought in by the treaty. Gero, gazteleraz esan duzu that there is room for improvement. There is certainly room for improvement. But I repeat the idea, that is, I think it was at the previous point that I heard the idea of failure. No, no. Failure, nothing. No success. I mean, this needs, and I repeat the idea about what the look is... the demographic issue, it needs time, and more time, probably, than we are going to be in this Parliament. You said you had to make a quantum leap, Mrs. Kortha's wife. And I agree, but we propose to make that quantum leap from the Eucal strategy of the demographic Challenge, because it would be much more complicated, and because we must go beyond beautiful families. And that doesn't mean we've changed anything in nice families. No. We follow the way of the treaty, but this treaty must be made in other respects. You were talking about the possibility of participating through Tramitagune. Man, indeed, through Tramitagune is also offered the possibility to participate. But I do not know whether you have realized that you are a parliamentarian, that you are in an institution like the Basque Parliament and that you have other tools to be able to act and to influence and to be able to participate beyond the Tramitegune. He also spoke of the possibility that we might not be in the Government. Of course there's a possibility. We're in a democracy. But, look, I'm gonna make you a concession. I'd love for you to be the advisor to the branch and for life and the Basque Nationalist Party to give me the opportunity to oppose you, eh? I'd love to. [[Barres]] I would certainly enjoy parliamentary life much more than you, I assure you, I assure you. It's not possible to get an arrangement. That's right. But why couldn't we get a deal? Why? Eh? If we didn't have a text, he didn't have a half-way text. Qué os pairace nuestra propuesta? "Poes qué nos va a paircer si le presentamos enmida?" The other day Mrs. Aguirre laughed at my waist; Put it on and move it, and, at the most, Mme. Gonzlez came in. That's what you do. That's your will to make a deal. And I'm a big dealr, but there's a deal that needs a deal, a good deal, a content. And no: Bah, hemos ha aqua propositionion no de ley, y aqué oscore? You said we told you about long-breathing strategy and so on in the time of the pact. And it's true. But now these long-breathed ones must be placed in a far wider challenge. At least we think so. I think we'll have a right to it. And we will do nothing that we have not said, but now we propose to seek in another context. And the last one, like a threat, yes. It seemed to me, especially at the previous point, that when you said you'd ask for a monographic, I thought you had such a threat. But I see all the pertinence. I see everything about him. And you mentioned that we were able to make a deal. And I'll tell you something. if you ask me for a monographicographic, I have all my plans to get back to the agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u110	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. End of discussion, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together with Podemos-Nozzer-Pigation that has been signed by the Animal Team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 26; opponents, 46; abstains, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u111	Not accepted. We'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 7; the contrary, 39; the abstainments, 26; white, 0.1 [[End of tape 54]] [[Start of tape 55.]] ... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 7; the contrary, 39; the abstainments, 26; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u112	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the Eucaian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters of the country are 39; the contrary, 22; the abstations, 11; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-03.u113	Integer correction has been accepted. Since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end up with the Full Union. The meeting ended at five o'clock in the afternoon.
