ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. I'll let you know that two lords and ladies have taken the vote. First point in theme list: "The judgment of the Institution, of the Governor, and of the Security Committee, made upon the bill of law of the public Basque sector. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to present a judgment? No. So we're going to the teams. The Mistto-Vox team has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u1	Thank you, Madam President, Lehendakari, counselors, good morning. As I mentioned in September last year, when they surprisingly rejected our complete amendment to the Basque public service bill, we continue to believe that it is a law that does not abound in better planning, redistribution and organization of resources, which insists on discriminating some Spaniards against others, which once again demonstrates the obsession of this government with the imposition of euskera in all areas of life. It is a law full of vagueness and empty words of content, and what is even more serious, gives the executive a worrying freedom of action based on decrees and without any control on the part of this Parliament. And what about the planned creation of perfectly non-dispensable bodies, unnecessary expenditure and duplication, sign of identity of the PNV. But let us go for the sake of explaining our position against the culmination of a very long process that started in 2017, which has been characterized by the departures and comings of projects, by the lack of consensus, by the scant or no desire of the parties that make up the Government for transparency. A country's public sector is the basic structure that sustains the state, and I hope you can forgive me, but the Basque Country is not a state, no matter how bad it may be. This is a situation contrary to the postulates of Vox, which favors the failed state of autonomy, and which you use to consolidate enormous, dense and costly administrative structures. In addition to this question sufficient to justify our negative vote, this law happens as with so many others, which are the result of an evangelizing obsession to which the PNV has also been added. We are faced with a legal text impregnated with a gender perspective, which insists on discrimination against women in an absolutely feminized area, such as that of the Administration. The obsessive imposition of the euskera of this Government falls whoever falls and despite whomever it weighs, it also has room in this law. The Basque, which Mr Egibar says makes us Basques, that language that has been used for decades to differentiate citizens from others, which has also enabled access to the public service of so many people and of so much talent, which we can see, is still used today to mark distances between Basques. And no, it's no longer Basques who speak Basque, under no circumstances, I can assure you. Attention should be paid to the development of chapter four, on the use of languages in the functioning of the public sector, so that it does not occur as in other clearly discriminatory legal texts of the Spanish. The law frees the abuse of the decree as a formula for the creation of public bodies and enterprises. A capacity which the Basque Government recognizes exclusively, and which Parliament will be able to monitor only through the full powers of control when they are convened, something manifestly insufficient, albeit in line with the profile of this executive. And we could also talk about the abuse of vagaries that allow everything, and the claim to create commissions to rationalize and dimension the most oversized of the Spanish public sectors. Vagueness, for example, in using concepts such as effectiveness, efficiency, governance or transparency. In addition, objectives that are impossible to measure and therefore difficult to assess. Surely, if we talk about transparency, it doesn't have the same meaning for us as for the executive. Nor, by the way, are solutions proposed for the unacceptable percentages of interinity in the Basque public sector. We are talking about figures of around 40% in the sector that holds three out of five new jobs in the last two years. Temporaryity for the acting public worker, always threatened by the irrational demands of the knowledge of the Basque, preventing the capture and retention of talent in all sectors. This is a problem that this Government should be committed to resolving, but it seems that you are neither concerned nor concerned. In short, this law continues to be an open door to the creation of new institutional clusters to develop new organic networks and public enterprises, as well as peripheral bodies, consortia, foundations, associations or entities of all kinds, creating power spaces financed with public money for the capture of new unconditional ones. It's more Basque, it's more gender perspective, it's more administration for national construction, more difference between people, and more difference between Spaniards. It is absolutely excessive the power that is given to the government... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... is more administration for national construction, more difference between people and more difference between Spaniards. It is absolutely excessive the power given to the Basque Government, the freedom of action without external control, without the necessary control of this House. Everything is disguised as good intentions. A list of good wishes, to which in principle no one should object, but none of you concrete. Although common sense and experience warn us of the risks inherent in power and that uncrupulous promises are usually carried by the wind, as will happen with this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u2	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. In this legislature we are coming to Parliament, basically, two kinds of laws. One type of law could be called "laws of principles", "laws of impulses", which are laws that do not actually change the legal order as such, but what they do is transform what should be a measure of impulse to the Government into a law, the Government will..., or the Government will push..., or parliamentary groups such, etc., etc. That's a kind of law that's coming to Parliament. They are laws that are very criticized because the truth is that as a legal and legislative technique they do not contribute too much, beyond saying that a law on this subject has been passed, but do not contribute too much. And there is a second type of law that is also being brought into this Parliament, which are these, and the law of the public sector would respond to this example, which are merely codifying laws, laws that we could practically assimilate to what is technically understood as a consolidated text. They are laws that they do is to codify, consolidate into a single text what up to now has been regulated in different legal instruments. And that's basically what the law of the public sector does. This is the third time, as I have also said in the committee and you all know, the third time in three different legislatures that this legislative proposal comes to the Basque Parliament. It is a text that in fact, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, responds rather to the logic of what was the State's previous basic legislation on administrative matters, for administrativeists the very famous Law 30/92, which, as you know, was subsequently amended. The text that had already been drafted by the Government three years ago, the Government at that time, the draft law was a conservative text, which remained a conservative text, of inertias of the Administration because they did not correspond to the new guidelines that were being provided, for example, by institutions such as the OECD or by modern trends in public service. And this is true despite the abundant statements I have heard in the mouth of the advisor of the branch and other members of the Government that this was to be a modernizing law, which was to bring together a number of new elements, etc. I challenge the honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen in this case, from the other group to explain them to me, because then I will be able to refute that this is not really a modernising measure at all. The text of this public sector bill, therefore, is that it does not achieve its objectives. And it's a pity because it's a real missed opportunity. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this Member has endeavoured to maintain not only an open attitude with the rest of the groups, particularly with the Government, in order to try, try, to agree on a number of modernising elements that are necessary as never before in the public administration, but we also called on a number of public service experts on our group's proposal with some of whose opinions we might not agree at all, but still brought them to the committee. And it was true that a series of appearances because of great interest and that brought new ideas, which are no longer as new as they said themselves, but in the very sphere of what is the administrativeist doctrine has been saying for a long time that there was a series of reforms that must be made and that the different governments therefore refuse..., and the parliaments, by their inertia, refuse to do so. This law basically does what it does is to transcribe a series of regulations, codifies a number of issues, but that were already being used. It is so much the mimetism with certain actions of impulse to the Government that this law reminds much of the amendments to the whole that the groups of the Government usually present, those that say "The Government will continue to do...", "The Government will continue to do so...", "The Government will continue with its policy...". Well, this is exactly the same thing. In other words, the legal regime does not change at all. We essentially proposed three groups of amendments, three groups of amendments. The first group, let us say that they were a series of amendments simply because to improve the legal technical quality and to adapt the text a little bit, which, I insist, was a text that was informed in 2015 by the Legal Advisory Commission - which has already rained, uh - an update report could have been commissioned, etc. Legal technical amendments. To do, basically, the work to the groups of the Government, as has also happened in another paper and my fellow parliamentarians, especially the opposition, you know. But, well, legal technical amendments. Secondly, a number of amendments dealing with substantive issues, such as the subject of the language of the dossiers, transparency. Finally, they are proposals that opt for a somewhat different type of administration. And there's also a point. The Basque public administration, ladies and gentlemen, in comparative matters in what is Spain, is one of the most presidential administrations, not because it is sought by the one who is lehendakari at every moment, but because it is configured in this way, that is, rather than assigning to the governing bodies, even the lehendakari himself, a series of functions which are very important. This we will see in another law that comes also later. And finally, the third group of amendments, which was what we considered critical, important, really novel, was or was really to believe that we want a modern administration and therefore to take those measures..., which, I insist, are not measures that a parliamentary group, mine, myself, have taken out of the joke, but are measures that have been announced by international bodies in the field of public service for many years. What were these measures? Basically, we proposed five measures. What was the first of them? Well, look, the creation of a statute... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... What were these measures? Basically, we proposed five measures. What was the first of them? Well, look, the creation of a statute for directors of the Basque public sector as such. You'll tell me: man, this, Mr. Gordillo, we can do it later on by regulation, right? Promises to the future we'll see what's left of them. I say, no, let's consolidate into the law, at least the basic principles of what should be the status of the leaders of the Basque public sector. Secondly, after the statute, the second measure we proposed was the creation of an agency for the recruitment and selection of management staff, because the Basque public sector, ladies and gentlemen, is very important and very high. The other day, you will all have seen some headlines saying that job creation in Euskadi is basically right now on the side of the public sector. We can also talk about that another day, but we are already - I think the headline said - 63%. That is precisely why, because there is not only the General Administration or the institutional, but there are also foundations, public enterprises, etc. That is why we believed that this measure was important, secondly: a recruitment and selection agency that was truly independent of the Government. Thirdly, the third amendment we were proposing was: we are going to create in our autonomous community also what are the executive agencies, which allows the creation of an administrative structure that has a certain function, even at a certain time, and that then, when they end, that executive agency ceases to exist. Look, the staff who have been hired can be rewritten more easily and flexibly to other agencies, etc. Which is precisely the ideal model of management of what one day we hope will come – although we are all still waiting – which is the subject of European funds. The ideal way to manage European funds would be precisely through executive agencies. Fourthly, what we proposed was also the establishment of a Basque public policy evaluation agency. All modern administrations have an evaluation agency that is independent of the Government. In the paper and in the Commission itself, the groups of the Government said: no, no, if it is already foreseen in the law itself that there will be an evaluation of public policies. Yes, of course, of the government itself. Great, I'll evaluate myself and I'll see if I listen or I don't listen depending on whether I get a high grade or I don't. That is why we thought it was very important to establish a truly independent public policy evaluation agency. And then, in fifth place, another thing we asked for was... In other countries and in other administrations - the most modern ones, with which we always want to compare - the tendency is for senior officials to have more or less some stability, some firmness. We did not propose that, but we did propose one thing, and it is that from the vice-counsel down, including high positions of foundations and public entities, the Government can appoint those who consider it appropriate - because this is what the law establishes - but that before their appointment was effective they would come to Parliament to explain their curriculum and to explain the goodness of why that person was the most ideal or the most suitable person to exercise that particular public office. I insist, we did not at all ask that Parliament here be choosing from the government what should be the high offices of each department or public enterprise. Not much less. But we did ask that there be, at least, that act of clarity and that act of transparency. Good. The position of our group was very simple. These are the five really modernizing measures that we are proposing. They choose one, one of the five, government groups, and we will support the law. Although there are things we do not like, but we will support the law, if we take at least one of the five modernizing measures, because we understand that it will be a step forward. But we are faced with the refusal, in this case I do not know whether to say of the parliamentary groups that support the Government - perhaps I have chosen the verb too well - or of the Government itself. That is why we, ladies and gentlemen, are going to vote against it, because it has been a great missed opportunity and the situation is going to be virtually the same as before the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos-Nozzerate votes... Is that a vote? Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u5	Good morning, Congressman, Mr. President. We believe that the bill addresses a complex reality and with an ambitious purpose, such as clarifying and regulating the framework of the Basque public sector. In our opinion, in the opinion of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we are finally faced with a law, with a text, which we believe is not going to solve the serious shortcomings that the Basque public sector drags on its management, and which barely slightly improves the democratic control and transparency of it, missing a great opportunity to do so. The same applies to the participation of trade union agents in public administrations. They are not given the role they should have in our view, although we recognize that the original text was totally on their side and something has been improved in this regard, following the process of negotiating amendments. And finally, we also want to point out that the text does not include something that is important to us too and would have been a good opportunity to introduce elements aimed at reversing this public sector from different privatized, outsourced services and also incorporating new services. These are the reasons why the law is not going to count on our vote in favour, despite the fact that it includes quite a few of our amendments and that we have negotiated, negotiated, a number of them too. These are amendments that we understand to improve the law in these areas that I have mentioned, and therefore we are not going to vote against it either; our vote is going to be a vote of abstention. In particular, and first of all, we believe that the law renounces the leadership of both Parliament and the Basque Government in which the Basque Autonomous Community's power fund resides. In our view, it would be appropriate to have addressed a law regulating the management of the Basque public sector in its entirety. Renunciation of the general scope is nothing but a renunciation that we understand as a political one, the consequence of which in this case will be, once again, the normative dispersion, the administrative heterogeneity in the provision of services to citizens and the slowing down... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... as a consequence in this case will be, once again, the normative dispersion, the administrative heterogeneity in the provision of services to citizens and the slowing down in issues such as transparency and citizen participation. Moreover, it once again frustrates the need to overcome certain overlaps in the provision of services that always entail overexpenditure and introduce discriminatory elements in their presentation. Secondly, our group had tabled a number of amendments so that Parliament could play a greater role in monitoring and monitoring the functioning of the Basque administrations and their bodies. Greater democratic control over what is of all and of all. We think, for example, that it is a mistake not to have accepted our amendment to Article 45 now I believe that Article 44 on the constitution, transformation and extinction of administrative entities. If its constitution is made by law, it should not be extinguished by decree of the Basque Government. This allows the Government discretion and avoids the necessary control not only in its creation, but also in its extinction. It is true, however, that the law includes in our amendment to article 10, on independent administrations or independent authorities. In theory, these organizations would be related to the notion of specialization or professional competence for sure that this is one of those modernization elements that Mr. Gordillo likes, but the project only referred to exceptional reasons and not to specialization or professional competence. If we had not accepted our amendment, pointing out the obligation to ensure this specialisation, we would be faced with a new element of discretion and lack of transparency behind which there could be undesirable chiringuitos. Thirdly, we have insisted that the law should give a role to trade unions, which, in our view, has also remained halfway there. In the case of the principles applicable to the creation and transformation of the Basque public sector, we have included the obligation to inform the General Civil Service Bureau and the Works Committees by the presence of the person in charge of the Department. We do not think it would be acceptable to exclude something as elementary as information in the case of creation or change to the Civil Service Bureau and the committees concerned. On the other hand, we have wanted to accept our proposal to include the representation of trade union organizations in the governing bodies of public sector entities. In our view, the consideration in a democratic and legal social State of trade union organizations as an expression of the defence and promotion of their own interests requires, of course, their participation in these governmental bodies. Well, once we have briefly explained our vote, and in conclusion, we wanted to express to this House that we are concerned that when the issues in the future are addressed in relation to the public sector, on the basis of the law that is expected to be passed today, it can continue to take precedence over the economic and not the public service approach, something that is already happening today, in our view. We are concerned that being the guiding principle of the law rationalization, seeking the object of efficiency, the spirit of public service can finally be lost sight of as a central reference. For these reasons we are not going to support the law and we are going to abstain from the improvements that have been included with a number of amendments that we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Socialist Basque, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u7	Gracias. Presidenta, president, vicebella, señorías, good morning to all. Good. Today we approve this law of the Basque public sector and it is a project that we have always considered very important and especially necessary from the Socialist Group, because it must be said that it has indeed been several decades since the beginning of our public administration, and therefore it was already necessary to order and regulate it in a coherent way. So we finally approved this law, which is going to be incorporated in capital to order and organize the entire Basque public sector, so that from the Socialist Group we show our satisfaction for the adoption of a law like this one that has to be said, we must insist that it did not start from nothing, it was born with an important advantage (?) the withdrawal because it took into account many of those contributions that were registered at the time for improvement. It incorporated many... those proposals from all the parliamentary groups that were drawn up to overcome and modernize that failed 2015 project that was about to be returned... no, it did not come back, but almost, did it not? At that time that project was a project, I believe that, we believe that I lapse, lack of ambition, and, also, unserviceable in most of its articulation. So although that maxim used, very often they say that not a step back or to take impulse, because it is understood as a failure, as a renunciation, and I am of another opinion, I prefer... I think it is better not to despise any possibility, no option and that sometimes stopping, rethinking and even reinventing is the best way to achieve success, or at least a substantial part of what is being pursued, and to show a button. So now and after addressing the process of debate of amendments that has been opened, proactive, frank, and I believe that it is also enriching, we have made decisive progress on the path of innovation, which we have already begun in past legislatures, which began with the adoption of the Regulatory Law of the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interests of the Public Position. And we will finally have, this law that orders the entire Basque public sector and that will culminate, hopefully, with the adoption of the Law on Transparency and Citizen Participation that will be referred to this Parliament in the second half of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is going to count on the acquiescence well expressed, well tacit of the majority of the parliamentary arc. It will have a single vote against all the groups that have actively participated in the debate and negotiation of the amendments. And that, ladies and gentlemen, in itself already has a value for itself. So the first thing to do is thank all the spokespersons, both Mr.... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... the debate and negotiation of the amendments. And that, ladies and gentlemen, in itself already has value for itself. So the first thing to do is to thank all the speakers, both Mr Gordillo and Mr Hernández, and Mrs Pinedo, and, of course, Mrs Larrauri, for her willingness to agree and also to put her hair on the line in order to complete a long process which has indeed lasted for more than seven years. So, welcome. This is an important law, I insist, and it is also extensive and complex, because, as Mr Hernández said, it is also his sphere of action, but I am sure that he will clarify all public management and will order all bodies, societies, etc., of all public administrations which, because they are public, we cannot forget that they are of all and for all. And it's going to do it according to the parameters of current governance. I'm not going to go too far because in the whole debate at the end of September last year, which obviously didn't have its results... Mrs. Martinez was surprised, but, well, it was hers, wasn't it? We talk about the objectives of the law. And we were talking about simplification, effectiveness, orderly and cohesive regulation of the functioning and organization of all administrations, limitation of competences, tightening the formulas for the creation of new management figures, the tools and mechanisms for evaluation, the formulas for the attention to citizenship and the formula for participation to consolidate that thing that we all call trust in the re publica, in the public thing. We were also talking about guaranteeing people's freedom to use any of the languages they want in their relationship with the Administration, and we were also talking about the e-Government's important progress in channelling citizen participation and ensuring the exercise of their rights and access to information in a close and interoperable manner. And finally, we were also talking about the management evaluation procedures to comply with that principle of continuous improvement to provide services in line - as I say, and I repeat - with the current governance parameters. We are talking about all this, so I am going to take for granted those allegations that were made at the time in that whole amendment which, as I say, obviously did not come out. As I said, the Basque Socialists - I am finishing - have always considered nuclear the redesign of the Administration to better respond to the new demands and demands of citizens, beyond, important, mere modernization, right? Because we want to have an Administration that is close, simple, efficient, without duplication. An administration that is open, transparent, accountable in real time. A renewed and digital administration, with consolidated and trained human resources. And an administration, ultimately, that responsibly manages public resources. And not only have we always defended it, but that's how we picked it up—right?—in that government agreement that we signed with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. And, therefore, we can confirm, and we can state with meridian clarity, that the Government is fulfilling its programmatic commitments and, in this case, with the invaluable help of some parliamentary groups that helped to bring this forward. And today, at last, at last, we have a regulatory framework so that we can have all that we talked about before: to have a public sector of all at the service of all, simpler, more accessible, and, above all, closer. So, I believe that, as Master Sabina said, we have plenty of reasons to vote in favour of this bill. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. Today, the law of the public sector is at last on the table. This law has been a long way. For the first time since it was announced in the name of the Public Administration in 2014: three divisions, two chiefs, three projects of law, and a legal proposition. This is the long way −ith− of this law. Changes have occurred during this long path in the text. The initial text was withdrawn by the government, after EH Collect, UPD, and PSE have also submitted full correction. Thus the Government divided the bill into two parts; on the one hand, about the public sector now on the table, and, on the other, of transparency and participation, another project still to arrive at this legislation. When the government introduced these new projects, and especially that of the bill of law of the public sector which we are now engaged in, it must be said that it included several contributions to the various groups of opposition. And therefore, since the document presented in this legislation is the same, we have been able to identify several of our contributions in the text of the basis. But we cannot forget that in 2017 a new text was introduced in the legislature, in this case a legal proposition, and in that text again (e.g. There were a great deal of contributions, some of them had disappeared, and some new ones appeared. And, on the basis of this text, we had a good deal of argument, but in the end, as has been said, nothing came of it. However, in 2021 the text of the Government was retained by the text of 2015, and XI. the cultivation of different groups in the law was abandoned. We have therefore had to reassert the corrections, although they have been discussed, and we have had to discuss them again. The long way, therefore, is to define the organization of the public Basque sector and the 21st. to drag: new methods of administration, the evaluation of the most beautiful, efficiency, transparency, the definition of the electronic administration, and the languages of the public sector, and others of regulating the language of the public. Since the Basque People are gathered... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... transparency, the definition of the administration and the languages of the public sector, and others of regulating. The Basque Country has contributed variously to the text during these three settlements. Because we believe that the themes around the public sector are essential to people's advantage. Perhaps this law will not excite passions. But it is a law to define several themes which are the foundation of public services to the public public. We have intended to offer public services in a wider, more efficient, and closer way to the Basque People at the head of the Union, during the whole treatment of the project. We've held this purpose. And to-day, at last, the document agreed between the several groups we have here. The text we are debating today, as I have said, is preceded by a history, we could say tortuous, in which the Government has been introducing proposals from the opposition. At another time they've been eliminated. And today, after a debate of amendments and negotiations, we see again, in our case, that the proposed text has many of our contributions, and new contributions that we have made this last parliamentary debate on this law. And so, we believe that this Law should respond in the best possible way to its end. That is to clarify the Basque public sector, the Basque public sector; to update it, to modernise it and of course to make it more effective and more accessible to citizens, who should be served. From Euskal Herria Bildu, from that distant year 2014, we have defended the need that the Basque Public Sector Law had to respond to a complex and polyhedral reality. A reality that needed and needs to be simplified and orderly. And although we have managed to make contributions in this regard, the scope of the Act has not been broadened, both in the field of fora and in the local sphere, in areas such as the definition of entities, the implementation of advanced management systems to advance efficiency, the development of e-government, or public participation by electronic means. We believe that an opportunity has been missed to put the whole Basque public sector together by sharing a path, the path of improving management, efficiency and the best public service to citizens, simplifying regulations and facilitating this relationship with the administration. Our contributions, as I have said, have been many and many, made in several parts. In all, we have submitted 50 corrections to the bill of legislation, as has been said, in the text of several predetermined corrections (... because they were involved. The bill of law had many privations in our opinion in different parts; In order to strengthen the efficiency, to promote the synthesis, to make the true, quality, evaluation of public institutions and politics, the objective purpose of efficiency, in order to strengthen the right, to open the interaction of the community to principles, or beyond the public intervention. We've made all these parts and more of them, and many have been accepted. So they took steps to improve the bill, though unfortunately they weren't all we wanted. And therefore, as I have already mentioned, the law is extremely short, especially in proportion as it belongs to the application of certain parts, or in the way of strengthening the power of the legislative. For instance, it was said "no" to restructuring the organization of public sector made by M. As I have said, the public sector of Basques is 21th. the adaptation of control was essential in this law. In this way it was essential to define the public sector of euproscal itself because it is a public sector beyond the public sector of the community. Public sector including the Forum and the local sector. This was fundamental to us, and this was the fundamental efficiency and rationality of the public sector. We managed to include the concept in the law (... (a) In the law, but in the law, as has been said before, not in the case of the law as a whole and of the entire Basque sector. And therefore, in order to avoid efficiency, and especially duality, they have not taken all the steps to be given. On the way to modernize the public sector, it is essential to improve its structure and arrangement, and for this purpose they were important to us, among other things: Entering the principle of transparency for the direct control of management, regulating the internal coordination of administration and the co-ordination of administration, forming homogeneous structures for the execution of similar functions, forcing the application of resources to produce integrated services for the public, defining common structures for providing the organization of the country, or for a number of functions common to the common. On the way to strengthen efficiency, we cannot forget that the prevention of duality is essential, and even in this section we have gained steps. We have succeeded in establishing a new organ in the public euscal sector that no other organ is to be performed by the same functions. And not just to look at it or check it out. Thus it must be applied to the public view to avoid diremption, and not to act on its own initiative by every administration. In order to update the relationship with the citizen, it was also necessary to make strong steps in different parts. In the first place, the stable areas of entry in the text were regulated. But they were short enough, and in order to strengthen the power of the people, we determined to decide on these points. The Basque Country is essential to the Collectors to open their options, and in this law we take a first step which will also be reflected in the law of participation. On the other hand, we have contributed to extend the principles of interaction with the citizen. As for the others, strengthening the active publicity, insisting on the need to use the means of the public sector efficiently, controlling the economic costs, and limiting time to answer. And of course, another important one, guaranteed access to offices, the design of the pretty ones, and all his activities. We also want to remark that in order to measure the efficiency and management of the policy and public sector institutions, we have succeeded in jumping from self-evaluation to plural evaluations, considering the popular opinion of service. This question of evaluation will be essential to the affairs of the public... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... that we have succeeded, considering the opinion which the people have of service. This question of evaluation will be essential to estimate the adaptation of the pretty ones enabled to answer public affairs, and, according to this, to activate the correct measures. The evaluation of the polytics is essential to the establishment of new forms of government. I'm coming to an end, Mrs. President. Before it's over, I have to emphasize the contributions and strong progress of the use of eucalyptus. We have included in the law that the right of acting in all the relations which they have with the public euscal sector will be guaranteed. Even in the use of electronic resources. We have, as we can see, gained access to several internal contributions, and have really enriched the law of XXI. in answer to the needs of the domestic euscal society. But, as I have said at first, there has been a last step to regulate the public euphora sector quite properly, in order to extract the law which has the global view of this people, and to strengthen its efficiency from this global point of view. So it'll be our vote. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, chief of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. The head physician of the public administration cannot be with us today because he has given us positive covida, and we hope to improve it as soon as possible. And we know how important it is for the whole department and to accept this law for the whole government today. Today we approve the opinion of the committee of institutions of this Parliament held on 25 April, which gives us the green light to the law of the Basque public sector; a law that gives us a legal framework of its own in terms of the legal regime, organisation and functioning of our public sector, of the Basque public sector, internally and broadly. It is true that it has different intensities in its application depending on the scope of application because it could not be otherwise. It is true that principles and values apply to the whole public sector, including the outside and local sphere, but on the subject of the organization it could not invade the part that corresponds to its competence and organizational sphere. Therefore, in that sense it has not been possible, and should not, to go beyond it. Nor should this law be confused with the public employment law being dealt with in Parliament. On many occasions it gives rise to confusion. This law, which we approve today, refers to the legal regime, organization and internal functioning of the public sector, and not to labour relations or instrument management (...), which is the content of the public employment law that we are dealing with in parallel or with another law in this Parliament and which we hope will soon see the light as well. This law, the law that we pass today, will order the set of rules that until now were regulated by the Basque administration or public sector. And it will also address the new scenarios arising from the changes that have taken place in recent decades, which will be able to meet current and future challenges. In addition, this law will allow for better orderly, simplified administrative structures and procedures, which will provide better service to citizens, with a closer, more agile, transparent, modern and effective service. In short, the benefit to society, which is what it is about, that the ultimate end of the public sector must be a service, a better service to citizens, and that is also perceived. As is well known, and as has been said here, this law has indeed had a long process. That, of course, we would all have liked this law to have been passed long before, but, well, the circumstances have been the ones that have been. In any case, the process has not been in vain, it has been a process that has made it possible to make improvements due to a process, to important work. A job... make improvements thanks to the contributions made and the work of negotiation. Thus, it is not a new law, but it is a proper and good law for the Basque public sector, for Euskadi. Moreover, it will not be a flower of a day, because it is a law that has a vocation of permanence. It will be a law of the head, although on time, good, since it can be modified point-by-point or introduced developments. I therefore consider it an achievement, as I said, of the work done by the parliamentary groups which we have tabled amendments, which have tabled amendments to the joint text, not amendments to the whole, because that does not allow the text to be worked on. We have managed to work on the text, improvements have been made. And so, I believe, I am very pleased with the agreement reached with some parliamentary groups, in this case EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, which will result, as they have announced, in their abstention. Not the agreement with the People's-Citizens Party, with Mr Gordillo, has not been possible. You, Mr Gordillo, have become encrusted in four or five figures you call modernisationists, star measures of yours, which we understand do not fit into this Basque public sector of ours. That, of course, they could have another goal, but here the virtue of this law is the whole and not five measures that, well, I don't know, you'll know what its goal was. But, of course, I doubt the benefit that these measures finally have in the public sector and in Basque society. In any case, I hope that we can then - if you wish - reach an agreement. Overall, I believe that it has been honest and serious work, which allows us to continue in a process of improving the public sector, the governance model. As for the character of the law, you have already... we have said it on different occasions, but, well, today, the approval is due also to reschedule the general lines of this law. It has a character, as I said, general, transversal and integral. It does not therefore exhaust the regulation in the matters it contains, because these matters will have their own regulation or developments. It's not a digitization law, it's not an e-government law, it's not a public employment law, as I said, those have others, there are other rules, although there are certain brushstrokes here. In addition, this law proclaims a set of principles and values that do apply to the entire public sector. However, the part of the organization is that which is applied with different intensity to the local and foral level, because it cannot be invaded that sphere that corresponds to them... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... However, the part of the organization is that which is applied with different intensity to the local and foral level, because it cannot be invaded that area that corresponds to them. In addition, it has a normative and codifying nature. But, Mr Gordillo, it is not a consolidated text, it is not a consolidated text. Besides, this law confirms the regime of eloquence. He recognizes two official Euscatian languages in equality with the language of service and work, without hurting anyone. And so the balance is maintained very well, and language rights are guaranteed to the language of the Basque people. Again, equality is carried on in all respects. In all the genera and areas of equality there is also a step forward with this law. As for the content of the law, it highlights three fundamentals or three milestones. First, it tightens the formulas for the creation of new management figures at a time when, in fact, citizens demand to limit the size of the public. The creation of new entities will have to be justified and will have to be in any case, provided that the entities and assistants do not satisfy the general interest effectively and efficiently, and if new entities are created, it will have to be examined whether it requires a reordering of what already exists. In addition, this control circle is complemented by the creation of a public register of public entities, in addition to the inter-institutional commission. Secondly, this law seeks to avoid overlaps and duplications that are ineffective and unnecessary, and it is also complemented by a very appropriate evaluation system, although Mr Gordillo does not feel that way, but we understand that it is certainly an evaluation system that has been improved and that responds to the needs that a modern public sector demands. And, thirdly, it is equipped with good and new tools so that we can review what we already have. For this reason we understand that in the Euskacati it requires this law, the legal regime of our public sector, which will produce order and conduct, and which will contain the example of our government and good administration. And on three grounds: the hardening of formulas for the production of new figures, stalification and division by hardening the evading of evaluation, in order to discover what we have to provide with good and new instruments. So with this new law, the public sector wins, and also the Basque people. And we're just gonna accept the agreement of the committee and vote against all the corrections that have been left outside. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing on the answering shift, Misto's gone. The Euscal Group is represented by Popular-Ciudados, Mr. Gordillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u13	Thank you, Madam President. These days I was thinking of seeing government groups defend that a 2014 law is new without having introduced anything beyond a bit of cosmetics that has allowed other groups to abstain, which is what you always wanted. Well, then you abstain and do not vote against and so forth. Let's see, the Public Sector Act was a very important opportunity, a very important opportunity to really modernize public administrations, and specifically, the rest of the public sector in the Basque Country. It is that you yourselves in your speech have not been able to fail to recognize a number of things. To Mrs Gallastegui I have heard: "well, it is that beyond mere modernization"..., ah, well!, it is that modernizing the Administration is not... use another word, reform, adapt to the new realities, but man, it is that what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen, is leaving a second hand car and buying another second hand car, is what is being done here. What is being done is to replace a series of legislations, it is true, in pieces, (?) There was always there, and what has been done is to codify it into a single document. The only advantage that this is going to have is going to be the greatest peace of mind of anyone who wants to apply the norm. The lady said... I am also interested in seeing the elements that she highlights, but if there is nothing new here. That of the public assessment in the hands of the government, as it has always been, of the euskera, listen, is that just as we are now, are you really going to tell me that thanks to this law you will recognize that any citizen can address the administration in euskera?, what happens, now you can't?, today you can't, right? I mean, are you recognizing that so far a Basque citizen could not address the administration in Basque? Man, that's precisely why it was a law that we were considering at a certain time supporting, because we thought it was important if it really was a law that was taken seriously. But I insist, it is another law that, in addition, I believe the ultimate purpose of the law is that the government says, well, we have passed another law, we have regulated the public sector and that is it. No, because it is a law, I insist, that it does not include anything new, and as much as efforts have been made, Mrs Larrauri said: "it hardens the creation of new entities". Yes, of course, all he does is basically code and give him an instrument that's behind the Basque government's phone when he calls a counselor or someone from another department, "hey, we want to create an entity." And then, it's easy enough. The law doesn't leave you, and that's it. That's what you've done, but say it clearly, that's what you've done, and avoid overlaps, that this law avoids overlaps, please. How, through an interinstitutional committee that does not have a minimum or minimum structure I say external independence, that at least tell us, listen, then we will do what is deemed appropriate here, but at least there is really a series of experts who tell us to really analyze if there are overlaps. A report has already been prepared, which you have kept out there, and which, of course, proposes measures of improvement and adaptation. And about the new tools that Mrs Larrauri said at the end there, listen, what new tools, really, what will be done with the new law that so far could not be done. Please tell me that, tell me what can be done with the new law that so far could not be done. As I say, ladies and gentlemen, and I am not going to insist on it any more, I believe that the positions are clear. A law will be passed here today, but a huge opportunity will be missed once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...to pass a law here, but you're going to miss a huge opportunity once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u16	Yeah. I do share one thing with Mr. Gordillo. In fact, I think you said that in the first intervention, a law will be passed, a chance will be missed. This is an opportunity for a number of issues that we were, of course, putting on the table; we have put them when we spoke or negotiated the amendments as well, and to which I referred in my first speech to explain the voting sense of our group and the abstention we are going to express before this law. I simply wanted to express my disagreement with Mrs Larrauri, spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, on two issues on which we believe we could have deepened. One, we think that some of the approaches on the table, in the sense of going further in order to homogenize the public administration in its broad sense, did not invade the competences of other public administrations, in our case over all the outside administrations. We believe that there are proposals on the table, also put forward by different social, trade union and political actors, which go in that direction and do not involve the invasion of any competition, because they do not contradict the applicability of the basic rules of regulation proper to them and, above all, their capacity to organize and implement. We thought that there was room for improvement for something that, indeed, in this country, because of our peculiar characteristics, often poses a problem in the reflection of management and public administration. And then, an issue on which we are certainly not at all disputing when it is said that this Law should not be confused with the Public Employment Act. Indeed, this law should not be confused with the Public Employment Act, but it seems to us that this argument has been used above all not to accept some of the positions on what we believe trade unions have to have in terms of paper in relation to public administrations. First, because some of the issues regulated by this law certainly affect labour relations. Secondly, and above all, and that is what I wanted to emphasise, because we believe that the role of trade unions is not just that of labour relations. We believe that the role of trade unions also has to do with the management of the public, especially when we are talking, for example, about public enterprises, public bodies and the public administration itself. Moreover, we have examples in Europe where this is the case, and where we have seen - always talking here about social dialogue, about concertation, which is so necessary - we have seen that this model is a good model for this social dialogue also in the public sphere. We think, of course, that this model also in terms of evaluation is much better than what the People's Party was proposing. And there we do agree with the groups that support the Government, because I would like to transfer one thing to Mr Gordillo in this debate. The issue of modernization, which I believe is a word that can be a hollow word, is a word casserole, where many things can fit, which for you can be modernization, for my group not, and what for my group can be modernization of the Public Administration, for you not. But there are several elements that seem to us to be dangerous to you. Mrs Larrauri has referred to them. I agree that they are dangerous elements, perhaps with another argument, when you talk about external agencies, both for evaluation - that we do think this law should include improvements for evaluation - and for what you call recruitment of staff at the public end. We think that this hides, can hide, in the end, what is also the privatization of the own management of the public. And, of course, we do not agree with those proposals and we do not agree that that is to modernize the public administration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The Socialist Basque mustn't speak a word. The word is yours, Mrs. Pindo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. In short, I had no intention of going out, but some things that have been said must be explained. We, in EH Bildu, do consider that we have contributed interesting things to this Law, not only in the current process, but in the previous processes. And some I have outlined, even a very important one: the definition of what the Basque public sector is, because this was not the initial definition. That is why we believe that global vision is important. And Mrs. Larrauri said that no further progress could be made. Mr Hernandez has told you again. I can understand that we each have our obsessions and problems, but I do believe, I firmly believe, that we could have made more progress in order to have a global view of what the Basque public sector is, and a global view that really puts us on the path of modernization, which can be a vague word, but yes of the effectiveness of action and of non-duplicity. And that is important in this country, and it is something that we have had in this Parliament in multiple laws, in multiple debates, even in some with parliamentarians who have shared this debate on this law, even with very advanced approaches at the time. Mr. Gordillo, I don't know, I can understand your... I don't know if it's frustration, or I don't know. Mr Hernandez told you. The truth is, you stepped on me several of the sentences I wanted to comment on, Mr. Gordillo. I, who from the People's Party are talking about modernization and modernization is limited to the creation of four more bodies - I don't care if they're called agencies, agencies, I don't care - four more bodies, we're not going to meet there. And especially when we are talking about four external bodies, as has been said. If you put your hand in there outside the public sector and we don't know very well... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... when we are talking about four external bodies, as has been said. If you put your hand in there outside the public sector and we don't know very well who they are and where they come from, we're not going. And with regard to the evaluation, I will insist, as I said in Basque, and it has not been made clear to you, that there has been a leap from the initial government proposal. The Government's initial proposal was self-assessment, self-assessment. And EH Bildu put the pluralistic evaluation on the table. Look at what pluralistic evaluation is and you'll see it's not self-assessment. It is something very different, much more advanced, established in a lot of public administrations throughout the country, the world and Europe mainly, and it is a very important step to really know whether the laws emanating from parliaments serve what was done and whether the actions of governments really serve the objectives that were originally set. It's very important. Therefore, we from EH Bildu, as I have already indicated, will abstain from this law because we continue to believe that there was an opportunity to go far beyond, that there was an important opportunity to put the Basque public sector in a common lane, in a common lane fundamental to the well-being and future of this country, and that in some respects it has not been achieved. I have to thank you, it is true, in my first speech I could not because I had no time, I have to thank you for the work we have done. I have to say that there have been three legislatures for some women parliamentarians who are here today, three legislatures for a law that has suffered, as I said, many changes and many mutations. Some of us have met at one point on this side, in the opposition, at another time being part of the Government at some point and now supporting the Government, as has happened to Mrs Miren Gallástegui. But that has not removed so that we can talk, dialogue and try to achieve even minimum agreements and try to move forward. I insist, there was a chance. We think we could have gone further. We each have a country vision, and of course we will continue to defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u20	Thank you, Mrs. President. Again. First, first of all, thank you for the tone used in the debate because I understand that it has been an appropriate and respectful tone and, of course, that does not distort what... the fact that today happens, which is the passing of this law, a law... a good law. Anyway, Mr. Gordillo, I understand... You insist that it is an old law, that it is not new. Yes, yes, yes, we have already said that new is not, but that it is adequate and current. It has indeed been a long process, but it remains appropriate and timely for what it requires. That it's conservative, that it's continuum, that it's very traditional. No, no, but, I insist, it's appropriate. I don't understand that your... of course, that your proposals gave you this character that you tell you you're missing. I mean, of course, your proposals aren't... They didn't give you this character that you say, that, that you lack. In any case, as far as its amendments are concerned. We accepted him 24 out of 63, I think he was. But the gap has been in four or five, in those modernizers you call, which were like an amendment to the whole because it was putting the whole system up. And that is precisely why they could not be accepted. And you have diverged from being able to enter into those measures on our part. As far as quality amendments are concerned. It has presented many legal technical qualities, which were accepted by almost all. Some... Other related to language. That, well, we understand that the achievement achieved with the other parties because it is the one that achieves the right balance without undermining the rights of any person and they do represent an advance. And the modernizers. For the Statute of the Directors, Agency of Recruitment and Selection of Personnel, the executive agencies, evaluation systems because they are measures that I understand that you present them as, well, as an academic merit, equal for an achievement, to say "I, look, I have presented these measures, and, if I get them, see that I have managed to put this into this law". Well, no. Because, of course, here it is a general benefit, a benefit for the public sector, not for a personal or partyist, and a benefit for the public sector and for Basque society, something that fits in and does not put our system on the ground. Because I don't think... You say that the most advanced, advanced bodies in Europe are proposing these measures. But, of course, I don't know... I do not believe that it is customary in autonomous communities that you govern or have governed, nor do I believe that it is in the plans, nor is it in force or is it in the plans, to introduce such measures. And they were also basically based on taking you away from me. That is, an evaluation measure. No, take it off that I assessed better or take it off that the expert evaluates better that it is independent. Well, I consider that the people who perform those tasks, all those that you... the measures you refer to are people, professional people and who, of course, have no doubt about their professionalism. And I understand that they were measures for their gleaming. And I regret that no agreement could be reached on this matter. But, well, now it's likely... we have other laws, and we can get there. And Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu. Well, thank you for the deal. It is true that there have been parts that we have not been able to reach. As for Elkarrekin We can, mainly union participation. We understand that the agreements that we have reached and what the text maintains achieves an adequate balance and that something else, of course, unbalanced that participation. And as far as the scope of EH Bildu is concerned. This law is a law for the entire Basque public sector. It's a law... Its principles and values are applicable to all. But there are organizational issues in e-government or other issues that cannot be applied to the outside or local sphere without invading its organizational competence. And so, well, thank you to the parliamentary groups. As I said, Mr Hernández, Mrs Pinedo. Mr. Gordillo, with you it couldn't be, again it will be. Mrs. Gallastegui, for her disposition. To Mr. Atutxa, for covering me at the maternity leave, who dropped this gift. To the former and current Department of Governance, to the entire Government. And especially the legal technical services of the House. Together we have, let me, suffered the processing of this... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...and current, to the entire government. And especially the legal technical services of the House. Together we have, let me say, suffered the processing of this law, has even passed a pregnancy and a maternity leave very despite, but, well, we can say with satisfaction that today Euskadi has a good law. And, as the other says, it's a really rough road, but it's the day we dreamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. End of discussion, we're going to vote. All right, they'll vote together, the corrections reserved by the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudados, the articles of judgment, 126 to 1888. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters 6; the opponents are 68; the abscessions 1, white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u22	So they didn't accept it. They're going to vote at one vote, the recapitulations reserved by the EH teams, the articles of judgment, 79, 96, 99, 108, and 1224. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the contrary, 48; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u23	They weren't allowed. They're going to vote together with the Podemos-Nozzle teams. 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 19, 46, 47, 48, 50, 51, 58, 61, 62, and 74. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u24	They weren't allowed. They will go together to the vote, together, with the rest of the corrections reserved by the Podemos-Nozzle teams, made by the articles of judgment: 49, 60,66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 72 and 73. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 6; the opponents, 69; Absences, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u25	So they didn't accept it. The articles and regulations of the judgment which have been corrected at the same time are put to the vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 7; Abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u26	They're approved. The other articles and regulations of judgment, which have not been corrected at the same time, are put to the vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 7; Abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u27	So they're accepted. He's going to vote at once for the account reserved by the Basque Groups of Popular-Cellanos, the 25th. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters 6; the opponents are 68; the abscessions 1, white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u28	So it's not accepted. The explanation will be put to the vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 7; Abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u29	It's accepted. And the name of the law will be made to vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0,0; December, 28; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u30	So this leaves the Euskal Sector Public Law accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Phum up the other bill made by the parliamentary team, in order to face the ultra right. Discipline and final resolution. The peasant, the representative of the EH Group... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... another proposal made to the right of the ultra-right. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, the peasant, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u31	Gentlemen, okay. Good morning, (?the head, the president, the counselors, and the members of the legislature, to all good days. Well, for the last few years, both in the world and in Europe, and not so far from here, there are potentially dangerous currents that are taking their course, right? And the most dangerous thing is that we deal with them often if they were a normal stage element. And so just as the greatest danger of the matter that now comes to us is, we believe, to treat them in normalization or normalization. But first of all, I must remark that we have come with the subject which we bring to-day, and that, following the direction here between four political forces with a political agreement or consent, with no other proposal than that of the transactions, and first of all, as an element of happiness or reference to it, and as the political value of the present day has it, first and then of all, in the first place, to read it. The first point says: "The law-law lives with anxiety the rising of the right end and neophaxism, because it is a menace against freedom, social rights, and democracy, and rejects the political and populative military, the totalitarians, and the imperialists." Two. The parliament confirms that its vocation is a free exchange of ideas, and that it remains a free space of liberty to discuss in a rational and rational way. The only limit to it is always the respect of human rights. Three. The legislature rejects every expression of violence and discrimination against individuals and collectives, and expresses a firm will to counterpologize the book of democracy, equality, and human rights. Four. The parliament remains struggling against social differences, and it indicates the will to improve and to penetrate into democracy, that the ideology and fascisms at the right extreme may fail in the policy which lead to repress hatred and to exploit fear. A democratic system, a policy of equality, and a question of sex and reproductions, which decreas the execution of rights, and causes the violent systems of Europe to be broken into an anti-enophobic strategy. He also wagers the human rights, the individuals as well as the collective ones of Europe. In fact, if we were to think through the world of ultra right and right, and the examples of neofaxism would probably come more quickly than one of us, don't we? Be Bolsonaro, Servini or Le Pen or Trump, right? Without going far, others. There is a dispute about traditional fascism, neophaxismism, or poxism, but in so far as they are all the same ends for us, and the same values are all alike. But the real risk is found to be the depth of an ideological stream, or the degree of access. All these before the values in essential rights, the xenophobia, the raciality, the hatred, the denial, the discrimination... for it seeks as its master those other values, which are the foundations of inequality and division. He who seeks to overthrow advanced values and humanists, and to abolish the worth and properties which are founded on the principle of democracy, and to deprive the whole culture of collective agents, individuals, and people of their own accord. Unfortunately, the Basque Country and the Basque People know a little about it, but unfortunately this subject is not an event of the past. "You don't have to be strong to face fascism in its delirious and ridiculous manifestations: you have to be very strong to face fascism as normality, as codification, I would say, cheerful, worldly, socially chosen, from the brutally selfish background of a society," said Pier Paolo Pasolini in his book The Fascism of Antifascists. What ultra-right or fascism does not do is to be born for generations when it does not grow either; in the last century as well as the present, ultra-right and extreme right, or what they want to call, nourish themselves and grow in concrete political and social and economic conditions in a concrete socio-political context and scenario. The permanent horizon of the uncertainty that we have already installed and the great distrust towards the political class and the institutions are a proclivious context so that through populism they reinforce the values proclaimed by fascism. The policy for us, above all, is to resolve the conflicts that arise as a result of inequalities of all kinds. In a political community and in our political community, in this part of our country we have a duty to defend a society without exclusions and without inequalities, without social or economic gaps, because through them populism transits and furrows and nourishes the extreme right and fascism and substratum of it we have several examples every day. Without going any further, he's just come out... the Basque Government has taken the data, Eusko Jaurlaritzak atera ditu, barkatu, datuak. Iaz, eta, zoritxarrez, aurten ére bai, bai LGTBI kolektiboaren aurka eman direen eraso fisiko oso-oso larriak Euskal Herrian, baita baita ére eraso xenophobo eta rarazistak. And according to the data, 162 attacked because of the crime of racialism and xenophobia, and those who have classed as crimes of 173 sex, and have opened investigations, do not mean that they have not been given any more. All this, and the vital lives of our present lives in society, and those great changes which are being given, and, in some respects, that vigour of mind which causes things to become blurred or relaxed, does not it not? And thus they have passed, in order to give examples, which are near this place, and have been given to the Twins. On the 24th of March, the death of a Russian Russian gambler, who was well known, was shot in Paris by faith Martín Aran, who had killed him, was a member of a band of right ultra-lies, who had been tortured by a friend who had been accused before. Two days ago, two days ago, he was beaten up by a homeless man and killed with acid. And even if you're white enough to go from Irun to Hedaia, you won't be in trouble, but black or Arab... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... but if you are black or Arab, you will not pass and remain. There is also the boundaries of which we have racists, and it is the basis of a fire that is then ultra right and worth, or these fascists are strengthened. How is it possible in the world to sign and open forces based on such values or fascists? Although there may be a long discussion about it, there's a bit outside here that I have a book set by the book-keepers here. .). And that's where I got a book called "Extrema Dierecha 2.0," Steven Forri's name. And that which he himself ought to give amongst the conditions he speaks of, is to strengthen them: economic conditions, social differences, increasing industry, loss of publicity, reason or cultural conditions, sopolitical and ideological conditions. In this general crisis we find ourselves. And if, as has been said, we add also a state of uncertainty and a great deal of speed to this state, this state also inspires fear among many of the people. And the ultra right knows how to use lies, even if it gives easy solution to difficult problems, to serious and serious problems, to that protection or security. And we must be very conscious of that, too. In this book, I also appoint duties to oppose the elevation of the ultra right from institutions to the right, and to mention some European to the case of Germany. He had in it a great rise of ultra right and left in the institutional area, worse or worse in the social world, and in the army, with the serious inflations of this army and this police force. Germany, last year, ultra right... he named the conditions as the most dangerous elements. Secondly, Mr. author of the above-mentioned book, that democratic parties must implement sanitary cords in order to prevent the entry of the extreme right into governments and institutions. Sanitary cord is not by far the solution of the problem. It is a palliative, if you want a first dam to prevent the ultra-right tide from entering the institutions. The far right will not disappear if you buy your speech, if you ally with it. On the contrary, in that way, in addition to doing a weak favour for democratic values, it is legitimized. The result is usually one of two, either the ultra-right becomes hegemonic, or the traditional right is ultra-right in terms of discourse and political proposals. He concluded that no one should use the letter of the far right as a possibility or as a scarecrow to seek electoral revenues. Being the great battle of the twenty-first century the battle of data, or its control - and in this House there has been talk of this infinity of times - the ultra-right is working (...) of the last few years, and even if it had to be done, illegally seizing that data, to create personalized propaganda for their speeches and for the segmentation of ideas, and to reach the citizen. Let's remember the cases of Cambridge Analytics, or online gaming elements like (...). All of that is not random elements. Nor should we forget that the far right constantly uses hate speech with elements such as fake news, which should also be the subject of debate... More than debate, to take, to take concrete action. And finally, I want to point out four guidelines that I have quoted a book, it points to political parties. First, the strategy of the ultra-right to mark political debate must be prevented from succeeding. And that's what I wanted to stress. And I repeat, the strategy of the far right to mark the political debate must be prevented from succeeding. Secondly, the parties should reach a minimum agreement to ensure that no citizen is abandoned or left behind. Thirdly, parties and institutions should take the issue of deep mistrust among citizens very seriously and work to reduce it. And fourthly, institutions must narrow the educational gap that, as we have seen, is one of the causes of the growth of the ultra-right. In 2014, for example, in Finland... Finland has set up a school programme to teach the verification and detection of (...) and methods of informational poisoning for young students. And Finland should not be the exception, but the rule. Here, at least, we have an educational pact that should contain, apart from values, similar elements. And that also gives us a tranquillity about this issue. Being a journalist, he could not obviate the answer or the role of the media, and (...) get too into it. But it does point out that they have a significant share of responsibility in the advance of the far right. Because it is not possible to convert news without contrast, and to convert news based on lies, to what we are witnessing every day of it. But returning to the initial point, at least today, we are pleased to have a scope, agreement between four political formations, which follow the path of political and institutional treatment that ultra-right and fascism must also have in the institutions. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u32	Thank you, peasant. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Mistto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Well, today you prostrate them, the ultra-left abertzale brings us to this House a non-law proposal that rubs the obscene. An absolute misconception, coming from a coalition that nurtures murderers, to the criminal gang of ETA, and to which it also continues not to face, legitimizing even today its violence and its crimes. EH Bildu has the indecency to speak of danger... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... remains unchallenged, legitimizing even today his violence and his crimes. EH Bildu has the indecency to speak of danger. Are they referring to that danger that we felt by the Basques that we did not communicate with their ideas? To that danger that hanged many Basques who had to leave their land for being threatened with death? But his daring doesn't end there. They speak without blush of facing the far right. Dealing firmly sounds very harsh in their mouths. I remind you that, precisely, Bildu is the party that has changed its three acronyms by five to enter politics and that carries behind its back a backpack full of murders and human rights violations. A formation that is within the institutions paying an expensive toll: the support and applause of so many ETA killers, and that still today resists making a non-sensical condemnation of all kinds of crimes against humanity committed by a terrorist gang such as ETA. When you warn us that you will face us firmly, I am led by images of corpses in trunks: journalists, businessmen, judges, police, military, grandparents, parents, children. All of them killed vilely by those who still vitor when they get out of jail always too soon, from prisons to which they always arrived too late. It is an absolute sham, an insult, an offence that a party that is led by sinister characters like David Pla and Arnaldo Otegi, who have been convicted and imprisoned for collaborating with murderers, present themselves here as defenders of freedom, fundamental rights and justice. Exactly the same as some parliamentarians sitting in these seats. And you dare tell us about danger? That is the true fascism that inhabits here, the fascism of a political group that has defended its ideary based on shots to the neck. Because, let's not forget, cowardice has always impregnated her DNA. You, Bildu, are indeed a real and real threat to freedom, social rights and democracy. They have been for the past 40 years and still are today. When they propose to deal firmly with the far right, what do they mean? Because coming from a party like yours, such a threat should perhaps worry a large part of us who are sitting here. When they also propose to reject any violent demonstration against people, do they refer to attacks on members of other parties other than their own, to those painted on portals of members of other political forces, to stone-throwing and harassment of deputies and supporters of Vox? Because it is you and your ultra followers who have carried out attacks of all kinds. It is also curious that they always talk about rejecting, never condemning. They're cowards even in the use of lexicon. Are you against all this? Ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, you are neither ashamed nor have ever had it; your low morale does not allow it. They speak of restraining the far right, a term they use constantly and without knowledge, because of knowledge they are scarce. They include within this definition anyone who does not commune with his ideology. They encompass all those who oppose their independence and secessionist pretensions. They define as far-right transporters who go out on the street to earn their children's bread, Vox, Ertzaintza and state security forces and bodies, women who do not believe their concept of feminism, legal immigrants who refuse illegal immigration, homosexuals who do not commune with LGBTBI lobbies. That is to say, all of us who do not follow his guidelines are of far right, and fair, as the alpha male Ortuzar defined us. What you have is fear, much fear, because Vox is already the third political force in Spain and will soon rule Spain, as he already does in Castile and León. And we have always said with absolute frankness and clarity that when our president, Santiago Abascal, governs Spain, the illegalization of Bildu will be on our political agenda. Do not forget that for the time being there are free and democratic elections, and it is the citizen who decides who rules, and not you. And I'm still with the four of them on the rope. To Vox's proposals, whatever they are, they respond with cowardly silence and with a vote against. Proof of its null and void democratic character, in an exercise of contempt for the citizens and of discrediting the institutions such as this Basque Parliament. However, wish Bildu and all of you aullan. The Communists of Podemos, instigators of violence, teachers of slavery, political contortionists and dangerous manipulators, also represent the most rarity that remains of communism in the world. The concept of a communist ultra-left is very easy to define, since its root is in anarchism and Marxism. The words of Marx and Engels in his manifesto of 1848 are the catechism of the ultra-communist left, and he says: Communists do not have to hide their ideas and intentions, they openly declare that their objectives can only be achieved by defeating by violence the entire existing social order. On October 30, 97, on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the October Revolution, the Russian newspaper (...) published a balance sheet of deaths caused by communist regimes since that date. The figure was 110 million dead. The figure coincides with what was recorded in the black book of communism. 110 million dead have caused communism. These communist, dictatorial, closed and oppressive regimes remain in force in China, North Korea and Cuba. And they are still trying to spread their tentacles through Venezuela, Nicaragua and other countries. Sounds like this to you, doesn't it, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos? You, lords of Bildu and Podemos, are the real danger of our society. The real ultra-left that wants to lead us to a society of poverty, misery, to the Spaniards. The PNV, which for decades showed extreme lukewarmness with those who killed or applauded ETA's crimes, is also bulging. A PNV that sees how her desire to break up with Spain threatens as much as Vox's presence in the country grows. An unscrupulous PNV, able to take the dough to the right and to the left, but who knows that with Abascal will never be able to play his marketing game. The Sánchez Socialist Party, made up of lies and tradition, is acquitting. A PSOE handed over to communism, which he denied even three times as Judas to then embrace him with love. A PSOE that deals with all enemies of Spain: ERC, Bildu. But be careful, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, because with these fascists of the far left it is with those who are negotiating and to those who are giving way. That's the pacts of shame. That's the real danger. Let us be serious, ladies and gentlemen, and let us put the demagogy aside, that the citizens are already very clear. Our respect for democracy is exquisite, something most of us sitting here cannot say. Vox is a clear-spoken party, which... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... that the citizens are already very clear. Our respect for democracy is exquisite, something most of us sitting here cannot say. Vox is a party that speaks clearly, has no hair in the tongue and acts, but always within the law peacefully and respecting the rules of the game. Those lacking in the rule of law and democracy are those who, for example, make a unilateral declaration of independence, those who induce violent revolts characterized by sedition by the Supreme Court, those who chase terrorists and murderers, and attack and harass other political forces. That is true ultras, as are all those who pretend to skip the Constitution, especially its first three articles, which I refresh. "1. Spain is constituted as a social and democratic State governed by law. National sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, from which the powers of the State emanate. Political form, parliamentary monarchy. Two. Indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, common and indivisible homeland. Three. Castellano, official language of the State". Ladies and gentlemen, Vox is where he is, because citizenship has chosen us, he has trusted us to be a useful alternative to Spain, increasingly deteriorated, by the way. And that you must respect if you are so democrats. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, is an absolute misunderstanding, for the group that has raised it first, and for the speeches that we will hear throughout today. Because those who call themselves defenders of rights and people and parties, those who call themselves defenders of political plurality, debate and amend and agree on an indecent proposal of a party of violent tradition and black soul, but refuse to argue with Vox. The four of the cordon are turning this institution into a circus. They're breaking up the house of the word, turning this whole speech into a TV set. This is a real political Savage Deluxe, ladies and gentlemen. That's the real danger. You're very nervous, I see, because hope paints it green, Vox green. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u35	Thank you, President, Lehendakari, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mr. Mujika, let's see, without making the ethical effort so many times claimed. Bildu demands from the Basque Parliament what it is unable to demand from itself once again. The story repeats itself, they lose all the trains. I don't know, he's gonna try to trick us... he's not gonna make it. Of course, what you represent is very clear that it is included within the threats of this country, and within the risks. What you represent is included in the risks of freedom and democracy. And they've forgotten it one more time. And we immediately realized that shame has no limits, and that from radicalism what it likes is to stimulate the rest of the radicalities to install confrontation and to continue to open gaps of division, provoke and forget that the greatest factor of radicality and threats against the freedom of this country has come from the hand of the signatory of this proposal. And also to carry out that usual strategy of Bildu, which is the initiative of the title. No matter the consistency with what the operative part says, the important thing is the title of the initiative. If you make a deal well, if you vote against it too, the important thing is the title. Bildu faces the far right. What a sarcasm, in front of the far right. What Bildu has historically faced has been democracy, the Constitution, the values of respect for the human rights of the adversary, but yes, the ultra-right, neo-fascism or one of its main references, now Putin, feed them, serve them, come to them well, all those elements of confrontation come to them well and use it and take advantage of it. The parliamentarian who has spoken most about Franco in this House is a fellow member of his seat. Well, now Mr Mujika brings us the far right, neofascism to a debate intoxicated and full of political sarcasm. Mr Mujika appears in this debate as a great theorist of radicality, we could say that a philosopher of radicality, and agrees that he is a theorist and a prominent practitioner of that philosophy. And now he comes to Parliament to give class, or I don't know whether to give class, at least as a journalist, to make a half-lived, forgetful chronicle, and that's not good at all. Analyze it in that professional introspection that you did to us here this very morning. Ultraright, neofascism, is a threat, right. And what have you been, then? Of course, much more than a threat, because you have materialized the threats, too; that is, that is the fundamental element that you have to analyze, that you have never done so and that you are doing it now. They sign a transaction, but that gives them the same, gives them the same, does not make that reflection, can not speak of neofascism or of the far right, that you form the worst of this society. At the moment you have not been able to do that recycling, to get on the train, not yet, pass the trains through the station and you do not climb, constantly. I mean, we're not fooled, please. Finally, there are four points in this contradictory initiative in which I will briefly stop. The first point in its GNP says: "Parliament is concerned about the rise" (?) of the extreme right, neofascism, because it is a threat to freedom, social rights, democracy, the risk of human rights, the identity of our people. He expresses his commitment to confront him firmly." Let's see... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... because it is a threat to freedom, social rights, democracy, the risk of human rights, the identity of our people. He expresses his commitment to confront him firmly." Let us see, Parliament has lived dramatically and with great pain many moments in this country, and you and your group have done nothing to show that concern, Mr Mujika, which is now so concerned. The threat against the freedom of social rights, democracy was planted in this country, so many people took their lives, including people sitting in these seats, and you did not show any commitment to facing ETA and its permanent threat and aggression. Moreover, it still preserves the memory of the threat and pays tribute to it. That's point number one. Point number two of its initiative reads: "Parliament confirms its vocation to remain a space for freedom, political debate, ideas and dialogue. It is therefore ratified in its commitment to defend the institutions of this country." The Basque Parliament, Mr Mujika - which has forgotten about Basque in the four points of its initiative, also in the compromise - is not an area of freedom because you say it in a GNP. The Basque Parliament has been an area of freedom despite what you and what you represent, Mr Mujika, who are liberticidal ideas of this country. How can you speak of defending the institutions of this country Bildu if parliamentarians, councillors, ertzainas, officials, judges representing institutions of this country have been murdered and persecuted and you justify it? How can you talk about freedom in relation to a fair political moment or a rating of a series of political events that we are seeing? How can you talk about freedom and institutions in this country that must be preserved? If you have mistreated the institutions of this country. Point number three: "that Parliament rejects all violent demonstrations against people and undertakes to formally and unanimously reject all expressions of oral, physical, psychological violence, etc." This point is permanently unfulfilled by you. They have had countless opportunities to reject and condemn attacks on people in this country by radical groups and individuals and have not done so. Crying from Gora ETA, they recently punched a young member of my party. Or there was a beating of a young UPV student for talking about Spain. None of that has been condemned by you. But what are you talking about? What are you talking about? Finally, point four: "Parliament expresses its willingness to become a space free from hate speech and to defend itself against advocacy of discrimination. That is why it is ratified in the position it has held so far in relation to hate speech and discrimination." At this point you are directly appealing to yourself and to what you represent, Mr Mujika. The hate speech has its most enshrined foundation in this country in the hatred of Spain, in making life uncomfortable for the non-nationalist. And that is part of the way of acting of his ideology, of the abertzale and radical ideology. All you have to do is hear your speeches when you talk about the police, when you talk about Spanish justice in this country. And there is also the cult to the terrorist of ETA that you do with your tributes, with your ongitorris permanently and stimulate. I mean, this is what there is. Or those expressions stipulated by your parliamentary group. Israelis are coming to this country on the occasion of a sporting event and you are throwing your young people disguised as Palestinian handkerchiefs into confrontation. Or that confrontation to attack the Ertzaintza in its missions to enforce the law, as happened last summer, at so many festivals, so many stays, in so many towns and cities of this country. In other words, this GNP lacks many references, ultra-attitudes and stifling attitudes of coexistence. It's full of calculated oblivions, Mr. Mujika. Look, we have tabled a whole amendment. I believe that if you do not share it, it is that you cannot put forward such initiatives, you cannot, because our amendment says: "The Basque Parliament rejects all the radical, fundamentalist and extremist ideologies that exacerbate identity and ultrasensitivity and turn them into rights violators, haters and instigators of violent behaviour and exclusional attitudes." All of them, Mr. Mujika. All of them. Two: "For this reason, once again, the Basque Parliament condemns the crimes of ETA and other terrorist organizations that have acted in our environment as the worst expression of ideologies that have wanted to implement totalitarian and exclusionary projects, threats and aggressions in society." Materialized threats, not only threats, materialized threats, and still justified by you and your group. And finally: "Also, it urges those groups that do not condemn violence to rectify, to assume that in order to achieve full coexistence in our society it is necessary to disconnect the work representative of any past or present bond with strategies of physical elimination of the political adversary." Which you don't do. No way. If you were able to take on this, a different thing would be this debate. But you're not able to assume this. So his position in relation to the far right and neofascism is bla, blah, blah. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u36	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u37	Thank you, ma'am. In the first place, I would like to say that I am glad, and I would like to express my satisfaction for this text which is to be admitted to-day; in which the Parliament, in some measure, takes care and confesses, and accuses him in our political life, which the ultra-right or right-hand may bring. The right-wing Ultra uses society's inpotentia... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... the extreme right can bring it into our political life. The right-handed Ultra, who employs the inpotentiary of society, to enlarge its hatred, and to oppose the democracy and the human rights. The far right is a danger. It is a danger in Europe, in the world, in Europe, in Spain, and also in Euskadi, for the hate speech it represents. It's a danger, and it's not just a danger for the... for example, if I refer to the last thing that has been said here, by the twisting reading of the Constitution when the third article of the Constitution is read and is only fixed on the fact that the Spanish language is the official language of the Spanish State, and it is obvious that the same article three also states that the languages proper to the autonomous communities will be co-official according to their respective autonomous statutes. But this is not only why the far right is a danger. The ultra-right sometimes translates into votes, sometimes not, but in any case it is installing a dangerous discourse in our society. A danger, an anti-democratic speech. And I would like to take this opportunity today to point out some of the essential arguments of this far right and how it is penetrating – sometimes, I say, translated into votes, sometimes not, how it enters into society. On the one hand, the rise of the extreme right is a reaction. It is a reaction to feminism and the rights acquired with feminism in terms of equality. The extreme right has a traditionalist conception of legitimate society, very well. But, on the one hand, for the extreme right, the role of women in society is determined by a biologicalist conception of humanity, and, on the other hand, – and this is worse – the virulent opposition to extreme right-wing feminism is a reaction to the democratization of access to political decision-making areas, to the spheres of power that feminism represents. And this is already more dangerous. Moreover, the rise of the extreme right is the reaffirmation of a male pride wounded by the advancement of feminist policies that are changing in this country and the whole world. Denial of the violence we women suffer by being women poses a clear danger to our lives, to the extent that they deny the specific violence we suffer through a speech aimed at denying the strength of the facts, the strength of reality. The structural reality of macho violence is denied, rejecting the facts and data approved by agencies around the world. How is it explained that nine out of every ten murdered in the context of the couple are women? It is intended to make this reality invisible with the euphemism of domestic violence, and this is a threat to our freedom, to our autonomy, to our own life, to our right to live in complete equality, and it is an abuse of human dignity and, of course, an insult to intelligence. This is dangerous. Another ideological element that passes through the discourse of the extreme right is racism. But it is not a biological racism like 200 years ago; it is a more elaborate racism, a cultural racism. A racism that does not admit that other ways of being and living in the world are possible. A racism that does not admit the diversity of our society. This racism that they preach has much to do with a culturalist idea of the nation in the face of the political and democratic conception that we defend. The far right defends an identity cultural nation, in which access to citizenship is granted to the extent that you have a specific language, customs, religion, a family model. His vision of the nation is uniform, homogeneous, exclusive, anchored in the past and justified on the basis of stories and interpretations that are falsifications of history. In other words, the factor of cultural differentiation is key in its definition of the nation. His identity obsession and the protagonism attributed to culture in the project of national construction is above the rights of citizenship, those that belong to us outside our origin, our language, our ethnicity, our religion or our descent. Another very dangerous threat to this new far right is the denial of climate change and the environmental problem that is putting the very survival of the planet into check. The far right, against scientific consensus, denies the anthropogenic origin of the climate crisis we are suffering. This right has something - therefore, I say - of anti-scientific, because denying the obvious is in its essence. In fact, it is an indispensable prerequisite for trying to introduce your ideas and positions, which are ridiculous. And it is that, his vision of nature, in addition to the environment, is the same as that of the young man who goes hunting on his private side. And it's that we all, all of us, could see those sharp images of the demonstration in Madrid by the rural world. Gentlemen on horseback, with the shotgun on your shoulder. Can anyone really believe that these people live in the countryside? The view of nature that has the extreme right ends in the edge of its private estate. The natural balance they preach is the balance between the landlord and Azariah. The most terrible inequality, despotism and hunger as a model of what the field should be. This perception of nature, that mixture between Spain of the Innocent Saints and a postcard of the English Court is a real danger. And in the face of the climate catastrophe that we suffer, the extreme right proposes a romantic vision of feudal Spain; it would simply be a joke of bad taste if we were not talking about the survival of the planet. And what does the extreme right mean, in another chapter, by social policy? Persecution and attack of the most... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... And what does the extreme right mean in another chapter by social policy? Persecution and attack of the most vulnerable. They want to set an example... Or, well, I'm sorry, I'd like to set as an example that infamous poster that was taken out calling for hatred against immigrant children, girls and adolescents. That propaganda was a flagrant dehumanization of minors. I do not think that there is anything more infamous than sending hate messages against boys, against girls, who are forced to leave their homes fleeing situations of poverty and terrible human rights violations. It attacks the most vulnerable people, criminalizes them. And with this propaganda they also created a real risk for foreign minors. And it is very simple to understand, freedom of expression cannot include the targeting and incitement to hatred of the most vulnerable groups in our society. Anyway, and I'm finishing up, this new extreme right is not so new. It is the same one that claims that neither those who bombed Gernika were so bad nor the bombarded were so good. For them, the far right, the Nazis who, in support of Franco, dumped 31 tons of bombs on the civilian population, killing more than 1,500 innocent people, were not so bad. That's what the extreme right says. These are the political and ideological heirs of Francoism. Just like that. It is they who choose ambiguity in the face of the condemnation of this brutal indiscriminate massacre and want to erase the past. I have cited just a few ideological examples of this threat to our democracy, which is the extreme right. But there is more: its claim to reduce the State to security mechanisms, its intention to dismantle the welfare state, to market basic services, its rejection of any progress in the field of labour, its continued exaltation of Francoism, its opposition to political pluralism, its persecution of political pluralism, its mockery of the people who have been tortured and its claim to illegalize parties. Today in this House we are talking about the limits of democracy. And I want to be clear. For us the limit of democracy is the simplest humanity. A humanity whose rights are threatened precisely by the rise of the extreme right, a political movement that stirs up hatred to gain power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u39	President. Ladies and gentlemen. The policies of the extreme right, the present fascist ideology are characterized by limiting political pluralism to those who think like them, by advocating for the illegalization of the different, for their allergy to minorities, especially because of their place of origin and physical traits; by manipulating certain feelings, encouraging them to take threatening and violent forms; by using a language of permanent harassment and contempt for democratic institutions, by using freedom of expression to establish opinions and accusations against rival institutional representatives that promote crisis and conflict, by trying to make irreconcilable gangs between citizens with the clear aim of disrupting coexistence and fuelling political instability, by matching collective rights, social policies, progressive public policies with privileges and frauds, by their permanent hostility towards the free media. Fascists are easily recognized. They talk like they're the best, they despise those who don't think the same. As is well known, every form of contempt intervenes in politics, prepares or establishes fascism. The fascism of the twenty-first century does not need or should it be called this, because they do not want to be saddened by the horror and holocaust of those who practiced it a few decades ago so that they may have forgotten. And that's why they are baptized with logos and logos of apparent modernity. Make-up fascism advocates protectionism and economic nationalism, reduces the spaces for cooperation, is anti-European, closes the borders of states where it becomes strong, denies universal rights that provide equality and freedom, exaggerates the consequences of problems to generate distrust and discouragement that can be exploited against progressive ideas. The extreme right and its fascist ideology today is powerful enough to be a concern to deal with with action and determination for democratic politics and the mobilization of citizens. They have recently held the presidency of the French Republic, ruling in Hungary, Poland, Russia; they cultivate to a greater or lesser extent complicity among all of them and want referents, in ideologists of other far-right parties and organizations of lesser size and of equal danger to freedom, as is the case with Vox in Spain. Today's fascism denies popular sovereignty, although speaking on its behalf, to inoculate its racist, anti-Semitic, xenophobic characteristics. Fascism is a lie told by thugs. And in order to curb and reduce with democracy the threat of seeds with outbreaks of hatred from the extreme right and current fascism, democracies must act with the necessary frequency, with the effective speed and with the intelligence and responsibility they deserve. Freedom, social rights and democracy must always be defended against the extreme right, against neo-fascism, against the ultra-right and against the attitudes and decisions of extreme right policies when it lends itself to whitening to the extreme right. Today it is a shame that the extreme right is part of the government of Castile and León. An extreme right that has been manifested with the following expressions and objectives... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It is a shame that the extreme right is part of the government of Castile and León. An extreme right that has been manifested with the following expressions and objectives: "The UN and the European Union encourage the destruction of the family, abortion and ideological indoctrination. Abortion is bad, you have to condemn it. Franco was a historical character that many Spaniards loved. In the franchise there were elections, what happens is that they were always won by the Regime. Condemning Francoism makes no sense. Crimes are raised with illegal immigration. The Penal Code needs to be hardened. Spain needs life imprisonment. The Civil War was provoked by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. National sovereignty is being attacked by a revolutionary and coup process. The Government of Spain is not just a government, it is a mafia. The first thing we would do is to suspend Catalan autonomy. The woman can decide about her body, can decide whether to cut her hair or nails, eat more or less. We want to eliminate the Historical Memory Act and the Gender Violence Act." These ideas, these threats, these barbarities, are those that define Vox, that party that is already installed in the Castile-Leon government. It is a shame that he did so at the hands of the People's Party and that the People's Party rejected the European people, who refused to do so. And it is not true that there was no alternative to forming that Government, there was. It had it with a democratic demand that the People's Party was unwilling to accept, which was nothing other than its renunciation of collaboration with Vox in all government institutions in Spain. Braking the extreme right, preventing their anti-democratic policies from opening up, not just with speeches, it is necessary to take care of and protect alternatives. Take care of and protect progressive majorities and progressive policies. It is necessary that the disputes and pending accounts among the progressives do not raise the tone until they fall into the rift or the irreversible, until they bear the break or exhibit fragility, until they make the solution ingestible, until they make it easy for the coalition of the extremes to gain access to more power. The drift of the People's Party is very dangerous. The Feijóo era announces, for anyone who wants to see it from now on, that in the successive elections – the next elections will be the Andalusians – if he joins Vox he will form Government, and later he will do it wherever he touches. They won't count it that way, they'll deny it, they'll hide it, and of course, they'll do it if they have the chance, the same way they've already done it. The People's Party with its policy of burning land, sometimes with its anti-politics, with its worst, has no more political alliance today than that of Vox, and therefore, to stop the extreme right, it is not only necessary to close the step to Vox, it is also necessary to close it to those who agree with them to govern. And it is also necessary to improve our policy, the policy of everyone else. It is necessary to ensure an ethical soil that provides justice, reparation, quality to coexistence and democracy. It is also necessary to reject and routinely condemn all violent actions, come from where they come, such as violent assaults on the university, persecution and beating of militants of political parties, the occupation by the force of democratic municipalities or any other manifestation or similar violent action. Because those who incite hatred are the ones who most benefit from violent confrontations. Democracies are strong when democrats are not afraid and willing to answer for our mistakes, to correct excesses, to review the quality and democratic demand of our actions, to account for our actions, to bring to justice actions that may contravene the law, to condemn all violence and terrorism, to collaborate with the rule of law to clarify all human rights violations, where Euskadi has a pending subject. Improving democracy always, strengthening its instruments as well, helping freedom, equality and solidarity as well. In a democracy, we do not know what the next government will look like. For the Democrats, with the extreme right to put fascism, there is no next government. This is the main challenge for democrats and progressives. Everything else is and will be important, but nothing will be as decisive for our future as that. Watch out for overheated minds. We humbly offer socialism and federalism, leadership and alternative government in Spain, dialogue, negotiation and agreement, rights and progress, modernity and just recovery. The Socialists, with humility and determination, offer the alternative, the one that works, and the one that for the sake of the social majority, will have to work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u40	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u41	As a matter of fact, I asked him in the early part of the morning whether it was possible to use only one of the two chamberlains, and the second was what I wanted, but he said: "Not on the first occasion (retribute? If you're not, you can't go out next time." As a matter of fact, I didn't want this debate, and he knows exactly what's going to happen to the congressmen who wrote the proposal, because I thought it was going to happen. I don't think the Misto-Vox teams would have thought they'd have a chance. A kind of ideology in the middle of them, which they want to emphasise against some and others, why, essentially, they must have trouble here, there must be a fuss, a racket. You need to be noisy what the ultra-rights use to reflect their image. We agreed to a text. We made an experiment, we couldn't do it, and let's read each point. Everyone agrees, but no debatable. Well, this book-book is a political view of what happened to Castile and Leon, and what can happen from now on in Andalucia or Spain, is very interesting.... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... What's happened in Castile or what's happened, and what can happen from now on in Andalucia or Spain, is very interesting to the Social Party and also to Podemos. And why, in the Motive, though not mentioned, is the composition of the Government of Castile, first of all, in which the first Government will enter into a political part of the ultra-violence? Well, I don't want to bring the political Spanish schema into this debate. And I will only point out two points, which we have agreed to, but first tell me why similar movements succeed, why it is not chance. We know what they're talking about, what they're trying to do, but when things go wrong, and trouble gets crowded, then populism's choice opens the door. When things go badly and trouble accumulates, populism has a path, it has a path. But two conditions must be given: there are problems, a multitude of problems which are not to be found in repairs, and weak institutions, weak institutions. Why, this combination gives populism, the extreme ultra-scores, and also the ultra-stamp at the end of the left: some will have economics as connections, others identity themes. But when reason and emotion collide, when these difficult situations are alive, it's clear that at least − thinks it's the tool and means to direct us into the constructive mode. Political and nationalizing, not the rest, not politics and nationalizing. And populism, to have opportunity and means, requires weak institutions and popular institutions to fail. That's the panomama of Europe, too. Then I would like to mention points which we have arranged, and points 3.4, but at last the man who practises populism sees that we live in open world and space, it is true, and we do not all compete in the same conditions: Europeans, north, south... we are not under the same conditions. Then when fear enters into this vast world so open, when fear enters, it is a kind of special choice that the saviour has, because they are or are lined up with the system. And the extreme, who can do it in populism, has the chance to get the most of it, well, the people who are angry, the ones who lack protection. And that's what happens. And it happened in Spain a few years ago, and it happens in many other places, and so does this game. In the end, it's a reference to that savior. And we say, when we come to our country, when we say: "We need a strong institution of independence." We need some Fuertes, so that people can have reference so they can feel support and feel real support. Why, to avoid success in similar movements, it is to diminish social differences until they are destroyed. The differences nourish populism, and in Europe we have something to do with it. We say that we, too, ought to encourage and strengthen common value in this country. In the presence of individualism, and in the presence of egoctruism, communal values, knowing that from the hands of these communal values the weakest certainty will be obtained, because the community is strong, not every individual. And these communal values, institutions, strong institutions, are the key to gain the future, and the way to face populism. And I'm gonna read the third point and the fourth, why we're going to recapitulate here. I thought it would be enough for us to read this, but, as we went down to the debate, I know that the peasant reads them too, but well. The legislature rejects every expression of violence and discrimination against individuals and collectives, and expresses a firm will to oppose the principle of equality of democracy and the principle of human rights, of fear and discrimination. It's a clan, the harpsichord is the diary of equality and human rights in front of fear and dissemination. The Basque Parliament rejects any expression of violence and discrimination against individuals and groups, and shows its firm will to counter the agenda of democracy, equality and human rights to the advocacy of fear and discrimination. The Parliament indicates the will to continue to fight social differences and to improve and to penetrate into democracy, that the ideology and neophaxists at the right hand may fail in the policy which lead to repress hatred and to explore fear. A democratic system, a system of equality, whether of politics or of sex, decrease the quality of reproduction, and includes an anti-rophobic strategy against Europe that includes biletic systems. That's why I bet you too... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the opposite strategy of Europe, which breaks the viols, is in a xnophobic strategy. Hence it is that human right wagers both from the −norban and from the collective part of Europe which protects −. I think this is our manual. And as for the execution of this debate, I am at least opinion and intention. Let us return to our engagement at the beginning of this legislation. This commitment will bring us every time we decide what we have to do. But with these debates, we've bet for this, we don't win. The debates, yes, must be kept in place to examine the affairs of the place, to denounce and to do what is necessary, but let us not offer at least the bellows of this size. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH team, the peasant, is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u43	Thank you. From behind, as Mr. Egibar says, that was not a discussion-well, a discussion, not to give to those who don't deserve protagonism and to his political content. It has not been possible for some will, but the good should not bring one another; that is to say, those things that are important and dangerous, those which are deep and deep, I do not think that there is anything to be seen for fear, much less, and much less by seeing what is correlated force and what is in this country. Because hyperbole, exaggeration, provocation, lie, flight, histrionism, polarization and putting the fan, that's one of the usual formulas of the extreme right or who covers with that mantle his shames, let's say. In the first intervention, in the decalogue of what the political parties should do, well, for me to understand better, I call it the Paco Umbra method, I have come to talk about my book. In other words, do not allow them to change the communicative and political framework and let us talk about what they want to talk about, which is one of the main mistakes in politics; which sometimes becomes a childishization of politics. And I didn't want to answer, and I'm not going to do it directly, like I didn't mention anyone, although here some have come off well offended. And I'm not a philosopher, I didn't study much Latin either, I was the last generation in high school, but you will understand perfectly when I say excuse not small accusatio manifesto. So, I think that's all said for some who've been talking after me. We, from EH Bildu... "By the way, if you're going to mention us, please call us well, we're Euskal Herria Bildu and not Bildu, we always call things by their name, we have no problem. What's more, we do usually put a mirror, too, where to look. In ours where some are seen in that mirror it does not say whether, as in the story, if you are handsome, beautiful, but if you have fascist or ultra-right behaviors, which is the debate we want to bring. What is reflected today once again - and that is what we must congratulate on this point - is that the majority of Basque society, or of this part of Basque society, of the three territories, is for more rights, is for more feminism, for more equality, for less inequality and for more sharing of wealth and for more integration and more reception. And today, again, you see and you will see each other where it is. Then, considering that credibility is fundamental in politics as in life itself, we will continue because we do not have to make any claim to our anti-fascist character, which is, and we will continue in that gap as democratic conduct that is anti-fascism for us. But, well, today we congratulate ourselves once again, as at the beginning of this parliamentary term in the House, for a political and communicative framework on how to confront the ultra-right and non-fascist behaviors. And we're still on that path. Horregatik, eskerrik asko guztia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u44	Thank you, peasant. Missta-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u45	Well, I don't know where to start, so I'm gonna start with Mr. Mujika. He was telling us he was coming here to sell his book. I will remind you that to sell a book first you have to write it, and, of course, the book you can write is not going to be the one we read most Basques. Because it will not, of course, deal with democracy, human rights and justice, something far from you, from Bildu. On the other hand, Mrs Gorrotxategi told us that at certain times, according to her, we have denied feminism, we have opposed feminism. I remind you, Mrs. Gorrotxategi, that I am a woman, I am here alone, and I am very feminist. I am no less feminist than you for defending certain things that I consider to be defensible. Let us not deny gender-based violence, make no mistake and do not mislead and misrepresent what we have said. I have always said that there is violence against some women, but also against men, children. I think he's bored to hear me say it in this seat for two years. It's just like when I said it you weren't in the seat, but I remind you again to make it clear to you. Mr. Txarli Prieto told us that we came here to confront the Spaniards. I remind you that those who have faced the Spaniards are your Government with a law of historical memory that has revolted the old grudges again and faced one side against another. It is your historical memory laws, Mr Prieto, like the equality laws that you are facing men, women; just as you are facing homosexuals against heterosexuals, it is you who divide, not us. All these new clashes have arisen since you were in the government. On the other hand, we were told that it is a shame that the PP pacts with Vox. Mr. Prieto, the shame is that you make a deal with Bildu. And we've told him many times. They didn't need their support, they had the majority to do it. You, moreover, are what surprises me most, that after all you have suffered in this autonomous community, all the Basques... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Your support. They had most to do it. You, moreover - it is what I am most surprised at - that after all that has happened in this autonomous community all Basques, including you, today whitewash Bildu and do so from the institutions. That is the true covenant of shame. So to talk about others, you have to be very clean before you do. That's what I want to remind you of too. Having said that, I repeat again, this is a real spectacle: all against one. You're very feminist, as you can see. But I tell you to keep insulting us, to keep screaming at Vox, at this MP, who I remind you that for the two years I've been here, I've never come to churn, and I'm as Basque as you, Mr. Egibar, speak or not Basque. I'll remind you again. So I have a lot to say about what I think also in the Basque Country, whether you like it or you don't like the proposals I make. But I remind you once again to pull the hemerotheque - that for that you are charged - and check the number of times I have come to chryspar in front of what these gentlemen have chryspersed. Check it out, and make a balance of consciousness that sometimes comes very well. Because if we're talking about freedom, if we're talking about justice and if we're talking about following the rules of the game, you know, and you really know, that this MP is here and the group that I'm defending here has nothing to do with these gentlemen. Pull the hemeroteca and then they'll tell me. So, ladies and gentlemen, insult, bramen against Vox, use violence to violate our freedom to the free exercise of politics, because, as you can see, citizenship is not foolish. It is not up to you that Vox is part of the government. No, it depends on the citizenry who votes and each day more and more realizes who has to be there. Because, Mrs Gorrotxategi, I remind you that you speak very well of the minas to which I have great respect, but I remind you that you came to power with your hands in your pocket. They're in big chalets today. Why don't you open the doors and welcome those poor kids, too? More than anything to set an example for citizens. That's what they'd have to do. So, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: be careful, because the devil is not Vox, the devil has 21 parliamentarians in this House. And besides, you're in charge of sharpening your horns every day. So, be careful, because whoever makes crows, in the end, they take his eyes out. Be very careful, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the PNV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u46	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u47	Thank you very much, President. I share with Mr Egibar the characteristics of futility, sterility or, if not, prejudice to the debate brought by Bildu. I fully share that sense. Moreover, it is contradictory the position of Mr Mujika in this reply. I sell my book. Let's see, here we can talk about your book and the book in general, and the book of others in relation to this topic. It is absolutely contradictory what you have done in this reply. Instead of reaffirming some position, instead of responding to what has been said here, that there have been many things - I have tried to do it, because I have analysed your initiative very well - you introduce a point and now you can't talk about that point, now you have to talk about what you want: talking about radicality, the keys that we can all talk about the radical sense in politics and the threats of radicality. It's just that that's the thing. It's just that you're going to impose a debate on us, and either we shut up or we have to say whatever you want. Or like when the violent did it. Same. Or shut up or I'll neutralize you. Is that the point? Well, I tell him what I tell him, and I know he doesn't like to hear it. I know that for you to repeat these questions is that train that you continue to miss. Let's see, call it whatever you want, call it whatever you want, but hit a militant from a Spanish party, from the People's Party, hit him in the shouts of Gora ETA, do paints in houses or in houses of the people or in political parties headquarters in relation to what you don't condemn, pay homage to murderers permanently, or beat up a university student because it's called Spanish, but isn't that neofascism? That's neofascism, keys to neofascism, I don't know if ideological, but practical. And that's practiced in this country. And there's the hate crimes. Of course I do. There's the hate crimes. That is why nothing you can tell us at this time about the condemnation of the far right, the condemnation of neofascism, is credible. Of course, it is clear that Bildu's attitude will never be sincere in these keys if there is no prior recognition and renunciation of violent behaviors that you continue to justify. It's not credible. And it is not credible, of course, the initiative that you have signed with the PNV, with the PSOE and with Podemos in relation to this issue. Because there are also four points in this initiative, like the originals, because they have followed the line of the originals of EH Bildu. But, let's see, at the first point: "rejects all political polarizations." You don't keep it. I mean, the first point you don't meet. Secondly, it "ratifies its vocation to remain an area of freedom, of ideas, of rational debate, whose only limit must be respect for human rights". It does not comply, because you do not condemn the human rights violations of this country. Second point, it doesn't meet that. Third point: "Parliament (...) all expressions of violence and discrimination against individuals, collectives. It shows its firm will to counter the agenda of democracy to that of equality and the human rights of the advocacy of fear and discrimination." He's not doing it. Because here there's been a lot of discriminated people who've gone through a lot of fear, murdered, persecuted, and you don't condemn it. Doesn't meet the third point. Nor does it meet the fourth point when it speaks of human rights and the defence of individual and collective human rights. It does not comply, because it has not condemned so much violation of individual and collective human rights, Mr Mujika. What do you want, to give him a rostrum...? What spaces do you want to give him a rostrum? Who do you want to confront? Who do you want to confront? Is it going to be okay for you to confront the ultra-right and neo-fascism, because they fatten the extremes? [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... is the rostrum, with whom do you want to confront?, with whom do you want to confront?, will it be good for you to confront the ultra-right and neo-fascism, because they fatten the extremes?, is that what you want to do? If you want to do that, of course, that's why you brought this initiative. That is to say, as we are quite clear on this point, we have tabled a very clear amendment in relation to the condemnation of all radicalities, of all polarizations, of all fundamentalisms, of all ultra-attitudes, including his own, which has represented ETA and its justification. Of course, I am not going to enter at this time and in this debate any provocation that has tried to make some other parliamentary spokesman, and in this case, Mr Prieto, in relation to what the People's Party represents or some of the political movements we have had to do. Partners, right now, we all have partners, you also have many partners, and I am certainly not going to qualify for this barren debate or useless debate on some of the issues. But I do want to tell you one thing, that the People's Party is very proud to be the most credible alternative at this time in a country as deteriorated as Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u49	Thank you, ma'am. (? but I will take advantage to talk about something else, and it is all right now. ), above all, Mr. Egibar, you have given up on account of your opinion. And when I'm there with you, there's something you said, and the best way to expand the ultra ultra-right speeches is to extend and gain the security of everyone. We certainly agree with that. Of course we won't agree in the way that this is done, but at least as a principle I'd agree with it. Another thing, even you said, and I agree with that, if the speech of the ultra right has a place to extend, and the institutions are weak. I agree with that too. But I'd add one more thing, and I'd start here a little bit, wouldn't I? ), from the explanations you have given me. I think also the ultra-right might have this extension if we're indifferent politicians, in front of the danger we're in. And here I must tell you how surprised I am, you mention the danger, you talk about the danger of the ultracracy, but always thinking about it as if it were a business in Europe or Spain, and not as if it were our own problem, and the problem is ours. We have that problem, too, and we have to deal with it ourselves. It is true that sometimes it is necessary to balance, because it is true, to shake, to give room, to give an opportunity of opening such a speech, to oppose us, to the right of democracy, and to the right of the ultra-violence. But on the other hand, on the other hand, let no one speak in opposition, without contradicting anyone, this may sometimes harm democracy and the left hand to the ultra right. And it's true that it's not easy to balance and to know when and when. And that's the point we're going to find, and it seems to me today that if this point has been introduced into the day's subject list, it was a good day to enter into it, to penetrate into it, and to contradict ideas. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u51	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Egibar. Ortuzar made some statements in which he said that he was offering to the People's Party and the Socialist Party to leave the feces out of play. They are registered headlines in several media outlets. The problem is that this is due to a statement in an earlier time. We are no longer out of the game, we are now in the Popular Party alliance with Vox to form governments. I have made one, there are others that have not formalized them, but on which it relies to govern, and there is a clear vocation and decision of the People's Party to continue to form governments with Vox wherever it can. I have spoken before the next elections are the Andalusians, and then the following will come, and if they add up, they will make government; therefore, if it is true, if it is true that the anti-fascists offer us so that fascism does not continue to grow, it is necessary to stop the feet of the People's Party. And today we could have made here a model debate sermon of the mountain, as some proposed, trying to evangelize with doctrine or going down to the ground when the problem is already underway. It is not the hypothesis that we were here analyzing on the role, the rise, the presence of fascism, no, it is the reality itself, it is the reality that they already govern in a community, they govern against the criterion of all European democratic rights, as the French, German or Swedish have manifested themselves... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... Europeans, as the French, German or Swedish have said. It was the popular Europeans who told him not to. They did. And what do we do about it? Do we react or don't we react? Well, we want to react. And, therefore, we want to react by speaking clearly, going down to the ground, and not simply making definitions that can be valid for 50 years or 50 years ago. If the alliance of the People's Party and Vox were not a reality anymore, and not a danger to democracy, and not a danger to social rights, and not a danger to so many things, we would probably not be here addressing this. If the presence of the fascists in power, in the institutions, did not exist or the political presence in the country were witness as it was in other times of this very democratic period, we would not be speaking in these terms. Therefore, it was not worth making a statement of principles. The problem has to be pointed out with your finger, you have to say where the danger is and you have to try to solve it. And, indeed, we also have the alternative. And the alternative is on the move. And the alternative has to keep going. And we want to defend and protect that alternative. An imperfect alternative, but a deeply democratic alternative. An alternative with mistakes, but an alternative that looks at the social majority, that practices coexistence, that makes dialogue and agreement, that from a parliamentary minority in Spain today agreements and laws are made permanently in which the rest of the political groups of this House, which are not the People's Party and Vox, participate, and that is the anti-fascist block, that is the block that has to stop the People's Party. And that's the problem. And this is what we need to talk about. Because talking about the dangers of fascism in abstract terms because I believe that what is happening in our country is clearly insufficient. Mr. Barrio said that they are the alternative. Indeed, you are the alternative. The problem is not that you are the alternative if you were the People's Party of other times, if you were the People's Party that doesn't mix with fascism. That's the problem. That's why it's an alternative that we want to work on so that it's a minority alternative, so that it's an alternative that by adding to Vox, which is what he's trying to do, he doesn't get to rule. Because actually, and unfortunately, some expectations that had been put on the next... or in the new or the reborn, as you will call it, People's Party because they are not being fulfilled. I think the difference between Married and Feijoo is that Married took the photo in Columbus and Feijoo flees from the photo of Castile and León, or that Married was very energetic in his interventions and Mr. Feijoo seems to be choking when he speaks. Well, those are the only differences. Because everything else is a twist from nut to worse. Mr Feijóo does not want to advance the intentions because he knows that they are black, but he allows a government to be made in Castile and León, he allows fascism to touch power and public institutions, and he will do so in Andalusia if he can, and he will do so in Spain if he can. The others are to avoid it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u52	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u53	It is from you that we cannot lose this opportunity by looking at the Spanish politician, why we must shake it. Vox's everywhere, too. I understand, but that's a Spanish logic, it's time to make politics. As I have said before, as I have already mentioned, that Bila had her in it, the jim of Castile-Leon, I have discussed the same thing. It is another thing for democracy, on the side, and on the side of democracy, what steps we must take here and there. And we should agree on that. There are two debates. There are two debates. I do not say that I am bored, why we have not had so many debates, but I believe that we must at least insist upon it as our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. End of discussion, (hh...?) We'll place EH Collect, together Podemos-Nokerzka, Eukal Sozialists, and the middle-point that Euzian patriots have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 7; Absences, 0; white; 0,0; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u55	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos-Nodemus, by the law of parliamentary faction, of Artificial Intelligence, (AI) for the preservation of the citizens, and of the conduct of individuals or groups. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Angulo representing the Podemos-Nozzerate team is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u56	Mila esker, mahaiburu andrea. Egun where we're supposed to be. Good morning, everyone. As you all know... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ...to all of you. Well, as you all know, in recent years we have witnessed the rapid incorporation of algorithm technology, and algorithms and artificial intelligence into the prediction of many of our areas of life. Today many of us have voice assistants, television recommends us the music, the series or the films we are going to see. This technology, whose potential we're beginning to sense right now, and... In some areas we are already able to see them, as I have told you before. However, the technological development to which we are subject is not neutral. The interests or uses that will be made of them will determine the future development. And, therefore, it can be a tool for welfare and social improvement, or on the contrary, they can carry within them dangers of the restriction of freedoms, or the deepening and reproduction of the forms of exploitation and oppression on which it is based in our society. This GNP aims to land a debate in Euskadi, and to test a series of political devices that will allow us to tackle the risks associated with this technology in a timely manner. It is necessary to avoid defiances that are already being witnessed in other countries. And it's just that, in Euskadi, it's not an exception that in recent years. We have seen the rapid incorporation into the public space of technologies that potentially allow automatic surveillance of citizens. Thus we have had news of the incorporation of specialized software, which could potentially, for example, be linked to video surveillance devices to evaluate individual and collective behavior in a predictive way. To date, this technology has been incorporated without having been accompanied, this technology, with significant regulations. But what are we talking about when we talk about artificial intelligence, and why is this word so present in corporate and government discourses around the world? It is a term that we have no doubt, it is often abused. And they're assigning him almost magical abilities. If we accept the definition of the European Union, the only international sphere that has legislated in the use of this technology, artificial intelligence is a combination of technologies that bring together data, algorithms and computing capabilities. It is one of the fundamental parts of the data economy. And the definition continues: "they are systems that show intelligent behavior, through the analysis of their environment, and acting with some level of autonomy to achieve specific goals." And I want to point out an opinion. I think it is, that the European Union says so and that it is an opinion that the European Union says is extremely important. Artificial intelligence is classified as high-risk, and it will require stricter regulation. The European Union's White Paper, a general framework that should serve as inspiration, is developing a perspective aimed at placing people at the centre of artificial intelligence. In particular, the European Commission's White Paper on artificial intelligence considers it essential that an ecosystem of trust be established in order to protect fundamental rights and consumer rights. UNESCO, for its part, is warning of the need to develop international legal frameworks and architectures to control these technologies, on which there are also perceived risks and profound negative impacts on societies, the environment and human lives. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, it is not - as some groups have accused us in Congress - a left-wing occurrence or an attempt to seek security problems where there are none. But it is an attempt to bring to this Parliament, to the public arena, and to the legislative sphere a phenomenon of rapid development that requires a swift legislative accompaniment. I will quickly list the risks we have identified in collaboration, obviously with experts and academics, on the development of these technologies. First, devices that allow automated and massive capture of biometric and geopositional data. They are increasingly proliferating, both in public and private spheres, and are being automatically included in our lives. Secondly, the growing computational power available to states and multinational corporations allows these data to be processed in real time. Thirdly, artificial intelligence technologies allow - by crossing these vast public and private databases - the identification of subjects and their categorization within seconds. And all this comes together with a quarter, which is the determining point, is the boom of automated systems in decision-making. In a simplified way, these systems can be defined as composite technologies, with a powerful algorithm and vast databases, designed to offer predictions and estimates of individual and group behavior, as well as automation in decision-making. In the United States, where the use of this technology has been expanded, it has been broader, both by the State Security Forces and by the judiciary. In this case, the massive and indiscriminate automated surveillance of the population, as well as its use in automated decision-making systems, have served to reinforce the chronic trends marked by racism and discrimination. It is divided into a broad discourse about this technology and its progressive prohibition in many jurisdictions. In the European context, while the use of this technology is less extensive, European research analyses its use in countries such as Germany, Holland, Italy or Poland, and shows its concern - especially in the areas of legality, transparency, multiple discrimination, presumption of innocence and accountability. This is what they say, and it is what organizations such as Algorithm Watch, (...), state public bodies, such as the Data Protection Agency, warn you. This technology is being used both in the European Union, both for public entities and by private entities, for a wide range of functions ranging from border control, transport, public spaces, monitoring of workers, identification of students... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... for a wide range of functions ranging from border control, transport, public spaces, monitoring of workers, identification of students. Evidently, the number of video surveillance cameras and the capitals of the three historical territories has also increased markedly. In addition, companies such as EuroCop Security Systems are already working with Basque administrations. In recent years he signed contracts: in 2021, with the City of Basauri; previously it was Zarautz, Santurtzi, Andoain the Basque municipalities that have sought these automated solutions aimed at increasing the efficiency and productivity of the police services with this private company. These systems require a large accumulation of data. And in this line, it also highlights access to international databases. Since last summer the Ertzaintza, with an agreement between the Basque Government and Spain, has been able to access cross-border surveillance in the State, State security forces and bodies have begun to use this technology in police prediction through private public paternalists. And the Police Directorate-General has not hidden its intention to create biometric databases at state level. These processes - in our view, and that is why we are bringing them here today - are being carried out without sufficient public debate. That is why we have proposed a series of measures that we believe would avoid unnecessary risks to the implementation of these technologies. We have proposed to promote the development of technical, ethical and legal studies, in line with the rules on artificial intelligence of the European Union. Many experts who work in this field already say so. They, the experts themselves, are alerting us to the danger of this technology. We also believe that guarantees must be put in place to ensure that the artificial intelligence systems used are sufficiently robust and to avoid potential discriminatory uses in compliance with the precautionary principle. We also believe that a clear regime for determining legal responsibilities should be established in the face of possible adverse consequences arising from automation. When it comes to decision-making, transparency must be ensured. Technical transparency of the algorithm must also be ensured. Let us not forget that this technology will value both individual and collective behaviors in a predictive way. And we have also proposed as a fifth and final point the creation of an algorithm control body, similar to what the State Data Protection Agency would be, to monitor and regulate these technologies. From our parliamentary group, we believe that before implementing this type of technology in the administration, we should have a great debate and think twice and three times, because the consequences in the not so long term can be out of control and the disease can end up being worse than the remedy. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u57	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Socialist Basques, Mr Pricee, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u58	President, ladies and gentlemen. Artificial intelligence is a reality in our lives: it is in the midst of expansion, it is part of the fourth industrial revolution. Today there is no advanced country that should be left out of it. And while everything new, everything that is to be experienced, everything that has a lot of scope to evolve creates uncertainty, and, logically, it also points to benefits and risks. Artificial intelligence with more motive does so in both directions, because it acts in the physical and digital dimension. Artificial intelligence has such potential that there are those who have reflected on it, pointing out that a technology that can make improvements of itself, that can develop its own intelligence, led to its ultimate consequences can imply the end of the human race. There are also those who believe that human beings will not lose control of such intelligences and that their benefits will be extraordinary for our lives. In these reflections, sometimes far from one another, there are two that stand out and enjoy consensus. We must calculate, measure and control the benefits, and we must regulate for this innovation to be used responsibly, securely and respectfully, with democratic values, with respect for human rights. Artificial intelligence already operates in health, industry, education, transport, energy management or security, among many other activities. And so it operates in different fields of this Parliament and in the Basque institutions. It is estimated that artificial intelligence will contribute 14 billion euros annually to the world's gross domestic product for 2030 and beyond. Spain has in its digital agenda 2025 a national strategy of artificial intelligence 2020-2025 that is part of the Plan of Recovery, Transformation and Resilience of the Spanish economy. A strategy that is structured into six axes: to promote scientific research and innovation; to promote digital capabilities and enhance talent; to develop platforms that support data to technological infrastructures; to integrate it into value chains; to enhance its use in public administration; to establish an ethical and regulatory framework that strengthens the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens, both individual and collective, by safeguarding their privacy and ethical values, so as to ensure full inclusion and guarantee the well-being of society. This introduction has been made, as is already known, the initiative presented by Elkarrekin Podemos focuses on an aspect of artificial intelligence, on citizen security, and, within it, on its insufficient regulation, with the corresponding consequences. The initiative is timely, because it is in a time and space of... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... citizen security, and within it, in its insufficient regulation, with the corresponding consequences. The initiative is timely, because it is in a time and space of unceasing debate. The European Union is doing so, Spain too; I have commented on it before. Various initiatives have taken place in the Basque Parliament with the intervention of the Basque Government, and everything that helps to improve reflection and the proper, proportionate, democratic use of this technology is of political and social interest. Visual sensors, video surveillance systems, thermographic cameras have long been part of security systems, and their facilities are constantly increasing. Artificial security intelligence serves to prevent and anticipate threats and crimes. Artificial intelligence has many benefits, and risks, for citizens' rights, especially with regard to privacy and privacy, equality and non-discrimination, so it needs to be analysed from the perspective of digital ethics. Data ethics is already of particular importance today, both in the public and private sectors, as citizens will be the subject of more decisions every day taken and supported by these systems. We live at a time when new legislative developments are under way at all levels of government, with the interest that the regulatory framework is clear and sufficient. Information, training and awareness-raising, technical and political transparency, rules, limits, continuous assessment of collective benefits, protection of people from technologies, legal certainty and civil liability must be deepened. Artificial intelligence applied to police and judicial investigation has possibilities and also questions. Through it one can act in the face of false complaints, in the recognition of wanted or disappeared persons, in the investigation of crimes of child pornography, for the early detection of processes of terrorist radicalization in social environments, in the prevention of conflicts, riots and violent actions in public spaces, or for emergencies in mass concentrations. Using artificial intelligence the police can use predictive models to identify potential criminal activity and try to avoid or minimize its impact. It serves to optimize resources and establish positioning and paths more consistent with the distribution of incidences. All this has been under discussion in the European Union for months, in the effort to make the world's first artificial intelligence legislation, as has been done with the protection of privacy through the 2015 General Data Protection Regulation. Legislation that seeks not to be used to subliminally manipulate natural persons, classify citizens socially or monitor them indiscriminately remotely. It also requires information from citizens when they are interacting with an automated agent, on the system of recognition of emotions or biometric categorization affecting individuals, or on the manipulation of the audiovisual content to which they have access. Remote biometric identification is considered high risk in the regulation, and on it it wants to set strict requirements when its use is authorized. Use which shall be subject to the authorization of a judicial or other independent body, and to the appropriate time limits, geographical scope and databases sought. Therefore, among the questions would be how to ensure their use without discriminatory actions, abuse of power, how fundamental rights are guaranteed or when the use of these tools is legitimate. We want artificial intelligence for public security, and always at the service of freedom. An artificial intelligence that ensures the right to human dignity, the right to the integrity of the person, respect for privacy. For all this, Basque nationalists and Basque socialists have tabled the amendment they know, which has a general provision on how and where to deal with the impacts that the use of artificial intelligence systems can have on Basque citizenship and their rights, and also with regard to the treatment that must be given in the field of police security, in accordance with the regulations that are established in Europe and Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u59	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. First Vice President, Congressman, good morning. Well, we agree with the concern of the proposal. Progress technology and globalization plan new challenges, new challenges to protect personal data, no doubt? The collection of personal data and the traffic of these data has been high in the last decade, both in public and in private business. The use of artificial intelligence systems has advantages and, of course, can also pose and involve risks. It is clear that the institutions, which must be guaranteed, must ensure that the processing of personal data in general, and to which artificial intelligence techniques in particular are applied, are sufficiently robust, safe and ethical to avoid potential discriminatory uses, and especially with regard to the surveillance of citizens. We agree that these technology should be used with sufficient support. They must be trusted, and we people must be sure that they are used in a safe and legal way, respecting basic rights. Your group, Mr Angulo, seems to be concerned that our police officers may not be fully up to date on this matter. Of course, if they are concerned that the use of artificial intelligence applied to personal data by Ertzaintza or Local Police is not aligned with the regulation of the European Union, they can be calm and calm because they are, and they will continue to be. This government moves within the European model of data governance; have no doubt. Another issue is that you may find that framework insufficient, improveable. But that's already another question, that's already another question... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Another issue is that this framework may seem insufficient, improveable to you. But that's already another question, that's already another question. The legal framework that governs us is, on the one hand, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679, Directive 216/680 on the protection of data on criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal penalties, and organic laws 3/2018 and 7/2021. There is a new Union regulation which dates from 21 April, if I am not mistaken, from 2021, which deepens these issues, but which is not yet in force, has not been adopted. But in the future, let's hope close, it will be the one who will govern the use, the characteristics that would have to have those products, etc. The legislative framework, at least at the level of the European Union, is therefore moving forward. And, in our opinion, it is progressing on the right path, on the right path. Well, I won't explain the contents of rule or justice or the laws of the state. Nor do I think that any rule of the European Union ought to remind you of a rule which is to be applied directly to the whole European Union. That's quite clear. The Basque Government is not alien to reality or to European and State legislation in this area. Proof of this is that all of you have at your disposal the preliminary draft personal data protection law that the Basque Government is drafting from the Department of Security. The purpose of the preliminary draft - which they will surely have been able to review - is to adapt Basque data protection legislation to European and State legislation. When this preliminary legislation arrives at this Chamber, it can be discussed and improved by the contributions of all the groups. And therefore we shall here discuss it further in the Forum of the Law. That's Mr. Angulo, a complaint to your team. Well, it doesn't go deep in the legislatures, it doesn't argue, well, we'll have at least a chance here. And with regard to another of the issues raised in Mr Angulo's non-legislative proposal regarding the creation of a new agency, he said that the same preliminary draft law envisaged the transformation of the Basque Data Protection Agency into the Basque Data Protection Authority. This will mean, in the event of the adoption of this law, a fundamental change in the institutional organisation in the field of data protection, precisely in line with the provisions of European Union Regulation 2016/679. It will be an independent authority, an independent authority with investigative, regulatory and sanctioning capacity is proposed. However, we will have the opportunity, as I have already indicated to you, to be able to discuss and improve, if possible, the aforementioned draft law today. And in this respect we have established the correction of the rebel patriots and of the Basque Socialists. The use of the artificial intelligence systems will affect the rights of the eucalyptus, so that the steps required for the production of an organ which is to be evaluated in the rights of the euscals, may continue. And in the police camp, let him continue working in the district of European and state regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. And, well, brings us the Elkarrekin group We can, Mr Angulo, a question relating to artificial intelligence. This, Mr Angulo, is modern and reforming things and so on, and I do not know if the groups in this House, having the debate that we have had on the first item on the agenda, finally, they see this with a certain..., let's say, I do not know, a certain I do not know if I respect it, but, let's go, in any case, what we have to have in this case of artificial intelligence. But I believe that it is a debate that we really have to bring to Parliament and, above all, that we must and we have an obligation to be totally on top and, above all, to be fully prepared for what is undoubtedly already an issue that is in our lives. The proposal on artificial intelligence has made Mr Prieto an excellent summary, a synthesis of what artificial intelligence implies today. Sometimes, and he has explained it very well, sometimes it is confused what process automation is with what artificial intelligence is itself, there is a clear difference. One thing is to automate processes and another is the artificial intelligence that implies that there will be a structure through algorithms, etc., which is able to make autonomous decisions based on certain data. That's kind of the fundamental essence. Despite cinema, novels, and so on, man, technology is still not at such advanced levels, but it is true that it is important to take note and, above all, to establish a series of conditions, not only ethical. It is true that here a debate on bioethics, which is also of great interest, but also legal, in the protection of fundamental rights. The proposal made to us by Mr Angulo drinks, above all, from the famous White Paper on Artificial Intelligence of 2020, which partly also came from the recommendations of the 2019 high-level expert group on this subject. And right now, as has already been said, there is a proposal for a regulation that is being debated in the European Parliament. And there is a report that has been adopted, it seems to me that it was almost a month ago, a few weeks ago, where more or less the groups and those we are represented in this House have reached a certain consensus on some sort of issue which, I insist, is important for the broadest possible consensus to exist in this type of thing. Mr Angulo refers this debate on artificial intelligence to a particular issue, which is artificial intelligence and security. There are others, artificial intelligence and labor, for example, I wouldn't be surprised if you brought it to us someday or, what I know, artificial intelligence and other kinds of issues, creation, aid, health, etc. But in this case it focuses on artificial intelligence and the issue of security. Which, logically, can affect, as is already known... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... type of issues, creation, help, health, etc. But in this case it focuses on artificial intelligence and the issue of security, which, logically, can affect, as is already known, fundamental rights issues. This is an usual debate, it is a debate since the very creation of the State, which is the debate between freedom and security. Individuals, institutions, persons who manage institutions, and specifically States and public authorities, since, logically, one of their main concerns is the guarantee of security. And the members of the government, moreover, kindly present know this especially. Because society demands security. It demands security, logically, in a context of freedom. Here are two models essentially. It is, as you know, the Anglo-Saxon model and is the most continental model in Europe. The Anglo-Saxon model is a model that starts from an individual's freedom conceived as a non-intermission at all by the State. For example, you know that in the United States it is not mandatory to have a DNI, as you already know; in fact, the identification used is usually the driver's license. There are many people in the United States who live, develop and die without having a passport or anything like it. How is security guaranteed in these contexts? Well, man, through a series of mechanisms, which were mostly drifting into what is known as video surveillance, without artificial intelligence, but what was called video surveillance. There are examples, especially in the United Kingdom, England, and also the United States, of using video surveillance as a..., let's say, the possible excesses that can be incurred to ensure security. In the European context, however, there is, let us say, much more state control over citizens. And this comes through... well, that, from ID cards and through censuses, etc. Which, I insist, in the United States they don't know what population it has. Man, the CIA will know, but it never says. But, for example, here it is perfectly established because what population actually has at every moment because each municipality, even the state itself. That is why the current debate on artificial intelligence adds an additional variable. This is the classic dilemma between freedom and security, to which is added the use of a technology, from which we can presume the potential indeed, but, logically, also the risks. I used to say, I think it was Mr Angulo too, which is a high-risk technology. The word risk is used, but I think... I think it's more of a risk-taking technology. Of course, all technologies have risks. (Look?) you automotive if you don't have risks too. But that is why I think it is important to establish a number of principles and above all a number of elements. Are we legally unarmed in the face of the proliferation of artificial intelligence-based systems applied, in this case, to security, to investigations? No, no, We're not. We're not at all. Although traditional rights protection constitutions and texts do not specifically address artificial intelligence, they do, of course, relate to certain fundamental rights. Nor do they include the constitutions, for example, what I am, e-mails, emails, WhatsApps, etc., and there it is recognized that the criteria relating to what is article 18 of the Constitution, article 8 of the Convention, which we say is what is known as privacy, privacy in a broad sense, are also applied. There is, therefore, a basic regulation in the constitutions, in the Spanish one, the European ones. There is also specific regulation in the European case in the Bill of Rights, Articles 7 and 8. And it is also in the European Convention on Human Rights. What is the essence of this regulation and what should it be? Since we are here, in addition, in the presence of the head of the law-promoting department who has previously mentioned in relation to rights... data protection in the Euskadi area. For, man, logically, we do allow interference in rights in this case, and artificial intelligence and mechanisms have to respect it in this way, provided that three conditions are met. First, it has to be regulated by law. Any interference with rights must be regulated by law. It is the typical test used by the European Court of Human Rights. Regulated in the law. A democratic society is needed - and this concept must also be analysed. And then, finally, it's added... Well, to protect public safety, people's rights, etc. And a third element that has developed jurisprudence, which is the principle of proportionality. And this is the important thing, the criterion of proportionality. In other words, mechanisms with the lowest degree of interference with rights should be used. And this is the great challenge that we as a Parliament have and the great challenge that governments also have. Therefore, in the initiative put to us by Mr Angulo, there are a number of elements that we believe are of interest. And that's why we're going to support some of the points. We shall ask the Presidency to vote on points, if the proposer so agrees, to support them. Because we do believe that there has to be regulation of these issues, of course. We do suggest that there has to be regulation. We do suggest that there must be guarantees. There is something that Mr Angulo proposes in his text, perhaps point four, where I believe that we do not have competence there, perhaps, in the case of the Basque Country, in the case of Euskadi. And then, as far as the agency that he proposes, very new agency, in the field of algorithms, perhaps I believe that it is more reasonable than given the nature of what this institution is going to be, as Mr Atutxa has said, to include that task or function in the case of the future Agency for the Protection of Data of Basque Country, which will, logically, have powers, in this case, of research. And I am not so clear that it has regulatory powers, because since it is a matter of data protection, therefore, because there are fundamental rights, I think that regulation will have to see a little bit what exactly the powers are, in fact, attributed to it. Whether there is an autonomous law in this matter may be fine. We will analyze the text calmly. But, above all, the important thing in this is that there is a high level of awareness. There has to be a high level of awareness. And above all there has to be a high level of awareness of what the use of these new technologies implies. We have a great opportunity before us to take advantage of and enjoy these new technologies, but we also need to know how to regulate them and how to include them in our daily lives with the protection of these fundamental rights as well. And finally, as regards the proposal made by the groups supporting the Government. Man, the first proposal is basically to take Mr. Angulo's last one a little more decaffeinated. Let the government consider the possibility... (...?) the Basque Government that every time the creation of an organ becomes a little nervous. But, finally, we will support it, however, even if it is a step I understand that quite shy. But, well, we're gonna support her. Especially because you will understand that it is already fulfilled because it will be brought by the preliminary draft or the draft law, if any, of data protection. And then, the second point of the Government, which is raised by the groups that support the Government -- sorry -- because we will also support it. Because, man, if you read, "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue..."... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... We are also going to support it, because, man, if one reads: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to act with respect for the law". Man, sure, how are you gonna vote no to this? Yeah, sure, like he's been doing. And if not, then, there are the courts, and that's what you have to do, isn't it? That's why, man, here, Mr. Atutxa, you, who's a very smart man, because... You too, Mr. Prieto... So there is a small criticism also of these kinds of initiatives, of these kinds of amendments to the whole, which are fine, but, come on, I think that we could have supported Mr Angulo on some points too, as we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u63	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u64	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. "We must know their fears to control the people," said George Orwell. And I think this is the scheme, the discussion of today: Create a security need, shake the fear, ultimately control schemes, and reduce freedoms. When I was studying this equipment, I couldn't help thinking about 1984 Orwell's disctopia, or that Minority Report film, the technology of artificial intelligence, the social control and the behaviour of people, the intention of predication. It is true that these − technologies may be useful in many areas, but when applied in security, we see two problems: the effects of these restrictions and technology of freedom are often imperfect. And I don't say it, and Mr. Angulo has also mentioned the White Book of the European Council. I quote: "The use of artificial intelligence can affect the values on which the European Union is founded and cause fundamental rights to be violated". Eta zerrenda lullea agertzen du: "freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, human dignity, absence of discrimination on grounds of sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or creed, disability, age or sexual orientation, and, in its application in certain areas, the protection of personal data and privacy or the right to effective judicial protection and fair trial". Oinarrizko eskubideen urraketa exited dezaketen, eta, tamalez, securtasunaz hitz egiten dugunean, copizien jardunaz hitz egiten dugunean, sure, lucky dutela. Adds: "Estos risgos pueden serredo de defectos en el diseño general de los des intelligencia articial o del dove de Datos que puedan sersgano sin una correccio previa." Dangers, as a result of mistake. It may therefore be inferred that these technologies may harm democracy according to their use, and the result of which may be imperfect, and perhaps − may not be able to assure us of non-ephides. What are the most common mistakes? Now false positives, either from the discrimination of sex or breed, or from the dispositions of persons, from gestures, features, or bodily characters, will be utterly impossible to inflict dangerous or ovative behaviour. And it's not just that. These systems are still out of order today. There are not enough rules. The impostors, therefore, may not only be imperfect, but may be out of legal jurisdiction. And I agree, Mr. Gordillo mentioned it earlier, we find security rights in a collision. Or, as it is said in another way: what he seeks for safety, for the sake of the melting of human rights, ends by neither by human rights nor by security. Give new technology to the police, to the military, to the secret services, to the private companies that offer security. Give more tools, give them no more tools, no checks, no appeals, no regulations, and we shall soon see what consequences it has in the defence of human rights and liberties. We'll see him soon, and we'll start talking about arbitration and disproportion, and we'll soon regret it. We have a close example in the course of these few weeks about the tragedy of espionage spread through Pegasus technology. In the case of legislation, and even in the control of the judges, espionage has been spread. The practice against the privatization of Pertsion, the practice of privatity, which has been attempted to shut itself up in a false position, and which, supposing a scandal, has been revealed to the very nature of democracy, to the weakness and weakness of the Spanish democracy. And this is the same problem as this, viz. lack of control, absence of transparency, lack of constraint of rights, lack of evaluations, lack prayers, arbitration and self-critarism. And in the habitat, it's obvious that they're happy to move corporations that encourage such technology and techniques. It has been noted that the European Union's data protection standards are scarce, their first steps are being taken, but they have at least been used to prohibit some of the grossest cases of using and processing biometric data aimed at identifying individuals. Programs that damage these predictions are being detected, such as the system (Clearview AI?) by state security forces and bodies: a system that collects photos from social networks and converts them into databases with facial recognition algorithms without absolutely any control and without the consent of those from now on will be damaged by these types of mechanisms. And that's why... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... facial recognition, without absolutely any control, and without the consent of those who from now on will already be harmed by these kinds of mechanisms. And that is precisely why, because this regulation is insufficient, the European Parliament is asking for two things: one, the prohibition of these mechanisms; and the second, a moratorium as long as the legislation does not develop. According to the resolution of 6 October 2021, the European Parliament calls for a moratorium on the deployment of facial recognition systems until technical standards can be considered fully in line with fundamental rights. The legal framework should provide for strict safeguards against abuse, and strict democratic control and supervision. This is not being done today, and for that reason it continues to be relegated. Por eso precisamente in front of the position Mr. Angulo brought. In Madrid he tried it, in spite of a few words, he brought the same text. Here, moreover, the text was produced through a transaction. We agreed, and thought that was how it would be tried here. And that he asks for two things, in a sense: An agency to control this, and a development of legislation. I mean, to give you a personal appeal. And we voted for it in Congress, and here we wanted to give the same vote to the same initiative. But we don't understand why PS and EAJ have stepped back from what was accepted in Congress. It's true you're asking for an agency, but to develop the legislation, in the point where this prayer is required to spread, you say that everything is perfect, that everything must be followed as it has been made, and, in a way, the prescribed regulation... I mean, it's enough for us to agree with the Normists nowadays. And I don't understand the position, and if you ask me to vote, we'll vote for the possibility of examining this agency in a certain way. But perhaps this second turn will explain why you vote against the growth of the law, and that you don't want any more controls or guarantees, as we see, to this doubtful technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u65	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the answers, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u66	Good morning. To begin with, I would like to make it clear that at no time, for my part at least and for our (...), are we against artificial intelligence or its development. We obviously voted for the artificial intelligence initiative in language policy and in many other respects. But it is true that artificial intelligence brought to security does involve many risks. There is a maximum that is given right now in families with teenage people. And it is, parents tell their children - mine are still very small - that you don't do or say anything on the Internet that you wouldn't do or say in reality, the physical person. So I don't think any of us would be willing to go out on the street, and that on a constant basis, cops dressed as cops, took pictures of him and were constantly asking for his IDs or involving them in any other way. This situation would be seen as one of the greatest aggressions that could occur, and we see it on many occasions. But by following this in a non-intrusive way that is said in the health world, we accept it. We accept it per se, even though there is no regulation, or the regulation is not entirely adapted. How much interference are we willing to do? Total and absolute? Because we're giving you all the data. The Data Protection Agency clearly states in its legislation that the data are the subject's, and that it must give explicit consent and be informed of automated procedures in the decision-making of its data. That's what it says. I mean, when you pick up his face, and that face is processed by 1,000 different variables, no one has told me that that's going to happen Are Basque citizens informed that their data is going to be stored? That a third-party company can collect their data, store them, process them, put them in God knows what programs, and take them for God knows what programs? Because these programs, as they tell me later, have not been developed by the government. They are bought from private third parties. Many situations have already been expressed here, we have seen pros and cons. There are many pros and there are many cons too in my opinion How are we going to avoid the dangers that carry this? We're always talking, we're talking like this was all a future. But this future has already arrived, it's already here. There is the founder of FindFace, he is a Russian; he asks for eight euros a month from people who don't want them to be in his database. This database has been used to harass students, students, in this case women, from Russian universities. A lady in Los Angeles was arrested 50 times because the machine said she lived in a dangerous neighborhood. I mean, the decision isn't made by the bodies and the Ertzaintza. I have nothing against Ertzaintza, I don't know if anyone has doubted it. I have very high esteem for Ertzaintza. I have more doubts about who will have the data, my data or the data of the population in this case - as I am a representative of them - and how companies will use this data. And there is currently no legislation to ensure that this situation can be safe... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the data of the population in this case, as I am a representative of them, and how companies will use this data. And there is currently no legislation to ensure that this situation can be safe, transparent and respect the basic principles. In this case we have talked about the European Union, about privacy, non-discrimination, and it is in line with the Charter of Human Rights. They have, of course, called for a three- to five-year moratorium in the European Union. I think, for our part, we don't have to be the first or we have to buy the Beta video either, just because it's okay right now, it's fashionable, it's a very good technology. I think we can wait to implement this technology for a few years. It's okay. We don't live in a society like Chicago. We live in a more or less peaceful society to have to implement technology that goes against fundamental rights. Thank you, chief.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u68	President, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the two basic differences between what Mr Angulo is presenting and what we have raised both in the amendment and from the Socialist Group and from the Nationalist Group are that European legislation is in place - which is also intended to be the first global legislation on artificial intelligence - that the European Union itself has the vocation, the determination to make a general regulation for the whole of the European Union, so that it is not everyone who, in different institutional areas, is dedicated to making regulations that can be collided or that may have differences or that may have deficiencies, and it is also in the meantime that what Mr Angulo is proposing is that a Basque control agency be made and what is proposed in the amendment is that this should be done within the framework of the Basque Public Sector Act. Basically, those are the differences. They are differences perhaps in time, in rhythm. They are perhaps differences in the method. And then, maybe they're differences from betting on the model that gives you the most guarantees. And I believe that the model that gives the most guarantees is a model at European level that we have so many times demanded for many things and that, now that we are on it, it seems quite reasonable that we should follow it. These are the differences a little. I do not know whether they clarify the reason for one proposal and another, but, basically, the difference is there. And then, in relation to intelligence services, at least the intelligence services that depend on governments, there are intelligence services that are regulated, which, therefore, the corresponding government must account for them through the means that are empowered by law, either through the intelligence services themselves, through the judiciary or through parliamentary mechanisms. And then there is another espionage that is absolutely illegal, and that espionage where it has to be is in the hands of the courts until they (...). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u69	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that after hearing your speech, Mr Arzuaga, I must come to the contrasted idea that you do not understand me. You say that the intention is manifested and that the Basque Government is already working on a bill, on a preliminary draft law, whose content is public, you interpret it as a step backwards. I, of course, cannot agree with that interpretation of the step backwards. It will, in any case, be a step backwards for your interests; for the discourse you have us used to. Because today we have come here to summarise the first part of the European Union's White Paper. Indeed, everything you have said is there, but speak also of the second part. The second part in which the Union says: okay, those risks exist, those dangers are. What are the remedies to tackle these dangers? Also tell us, who are there in the White Paper, when he talks about high-risk artificial intelligence elements applied to security. It talks about record keeping and algorithm data, transparency in the provision of information, solidity and accuracy, human monitoring, etc. He talks about all that, too. Of course, my group would be much more calm – and, of course, the Basque Government too – if the proposal for a regulation on the table, specifically with the first objective, were already in force. And the first objective is to ensure that artificial intelligence systems introduced and used on the European Union market are safe and comply with existing legislation on fundamental rights and values of the Union. That for our group is fundamental, fundamental: that we cannot employ, market, etc., any element that does not comply scrupulously with those conditions. Because then I do have to give you reason, Mr Arzuaga, if those conditions were not met, we could be in the situation that you have drawn for us. Yes, we could be, and surely we would be. And that, of course, would undermine all the rights of Basques and Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Ciudadanos must not be part of it, Populars. Mr. Azuga, representative of EH Collect, your word is yours. [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...a lot, Mr. Cuckoo. Ciudadanos must not be part of it, Populars. Mr. Azuga, representative of EH Collect, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u72	gentlemen, thank you. Mr. Atutxa, you're telling me I don't understand you, maybe, huh? So, if I don't get it, I'll read it to you. And in the initiative that you have brought us, in the wording, in the second point – I say, if you agree to vote for points, we will support the first one; we will not support the second one says: "that we continue to act in accordance with the European and state regulations on the matter, as well as the requirements laid down in the police surveillance regulations". Mr. Prieto said they were planned, but it's different, huh? It is different to say that they are planned today or that they are planned in the future, because what we are talking about is developing all these control regulations, all these regulations that are going to impose guarantees on the use of these technologies. And at this point that you are bringing us, you are not telling us we are going to make progress in the regulatory area, we are going to make progress in those controls, but what you are telling us is that it continues to act in accordance with what has been set out. So you must also vote against what you are writing, because you are saying something else. Three areas. The European level is indeed developing and therefore requires a moratorium until these control mechanisms are developed and until, as I have read before, there are genuine guarantees. At the state level. Indeed, there is a law that has just been passed on 26 May 7/2021 on the protection of personal data processed for actions to prevent, detect and investigate and prosecute criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Not once does he mention a law of last year, not once, artificial intelligence. There is not a single mention of personal algorithm techniques. It mentions on two occasions only biometric data in a generic way and gives absolutely no response in terms of control and guarantee. Insufficient regulation. It has already lapsed in one year, because, in addition, in the Congressional Committee on the Interior what has recently been decided is that a regulation will be put in place, I understand, to extend this legislation, and, indeed, it does not even mention Basque legislation, because it is obsolete as it is a law of 2004 and for which we have actually been brought a preliminary draft. And I'm worried, and I read this, and I was worried. I was worried and I don't feel any easier because I don't know how the edgelines get in front of these technology. I don't know what guarantees it's under the guidance of this not yet developed regulations, and so, because I'm worried, I'm gonna make a request to meet them. I usually don't answer too much at that time, as long as I like to doubt the information I have given, I'll continue to think of such tools as this, or we'll be controlled by such tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u73	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. After discussion, we're going to vote together like Podemos-Nozzer the original text of the proposition as well as the Anicate. No points requested. One, two, three, four, five. Thinks there's no problem. So we vote one, two, three points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 32; the contrary is 41; the abstations 1, white; 0. They weren't allowed. Then we'll vote for four and five points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 54; 26; the opponents 42; the opponents are 42; the abstations, 6; white; 0. They weren't allowed. Next we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eucan patriots. Is there a problem? No, please... I'm not here to ask... Ah! One and two, okay. On the one hand, we vote for the first point. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0 So the first point is unanimous. We'll vote for the second point. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opponents 20; the contractations 7; white, 0. So the second point has also been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Populary Group of Euscal-Ciudadnos as a parlamentary group to demand a necessary solution for people who have a mental illness and are out of DSBE. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, representative of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadanos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u74	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. President, welcome... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... Thank you, Mr. President, welcome president, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Again, Popular Party brings an interesting and important subject to the legislature. And further, we think it proper to discuss it, for a year ago we brought the same subject to the legislature, but after a year we have still the same situation, and we have not yet given it a solution or solution in this precise state of mental health. We bring back a topic that affects a group in a situation of special vulnerability, such as people with mental illness, and above all, we bring a problem that began in 2020. Last year we brought this same debate to this House in order to find a solution to the situation that these people are experiencing in a situation of defencelessness, an unjust situation. And in this sense, after a year we have seen that there has not yet been a solution to this reality, to the reality that these people live, as I say, people who suffer from mental illness and who need to reside in housing or community housing, because they do not have the opportunity to have a recourse of these characteristics that meets their needs in the field of outside institutions. On the other hand, we believe that this is an absolutely timely debate, bearing in mind that yesterday was adopted in the Governing Council, at last, I believe that this was a clear non-compliance by the Government, by this Government, with regard to the modification of income security income, the Income Guarantee Income Act and for social inclusion. And yesterday, as I say, this bill was passed, which has been referred to the House, and the processing of a rule that had to be already..., or of a law that had already been amended for a long time. From the group I represent, the People-Citizens Group, we advocate that the system of economic welfare benefits, the system of protection in Euskadi, must be a fair system. We are a solidarity society that allocates a large number of economic resources to meet the economic benefits that people in need need need. But, therefore, in the system there must also be those people who have to be, and there must not be those people who do not have to be. And today we talk about a collective that we consider that for justice it has to be in the system of protection and have to receive an RGI, that it is people with mental illness who reside or who have to go to a community housing, or a resource of these characteristics, because they do not have this attention in the outside institutions. They are resources of the third sector that lack the status of public agreed place, because if so, these people could receive an RGI. And I used to say that from 2020 it's when you start to raise this problem, because it's when Lanbide changes his mind and considers that these people were not within the exceptions in order to receive an RGI, which was what they were receiving until then. I too wish to highlight in this debate the inadequacy of the mental health conventions together with the lack of sufficient outside resources. And this is also an issue that we have discussed in this House and brought it up, which is the pending subject of the approval of the portfolio of social and health services. We believe that this is an outstanding issue, and in that sense, well, since the Executive had to make greater efforts to address these issues, which also have to do with the socio-health space. Como decía, no hay una solución. There's no solution and a solution for these people. And we can say that we're back in front of the problem we explained a year ago, well, not again, because in the end we're not looking for a solution, and we need to find an answer as soon as possible. That is why we, in our initiative, propose to urge the Basque Government, the outlaws, to urgently articulate a solution to respond to people with mental illness excluded from the collection of GIR for living in collective accommodation, so that they can start to receive the necessary financial benefits immediately. We also urge the Basque Government to increase the number of places of mental illness in social and health expenditure agreements in parallel, in order to provide economic coverage for the necessary growth in the number of places in the three territories. With regard to the amendments tabled, there is a compromise amendment between the parties that support the Government and Podemos. We may seem to be reducing – Mr Soto will explain this to you – your claims or your demands in relation to the debate that took place a year ago, he will explain to us why, because for us the negotiated text, the compromise amendment presented, is clearly insufficient. We are talking about studying this subject. I will not read everything, because I imagine that those who have had this transaction will read it more carefully, but, for us, it is not the time to study, it is the time to provide solutions. And, in that sense, we are going to take advantage of the fact that there is also the amendment of the regulation, but when we talk about solutions, these solutions do not translate into a concrete amendment, as I say, of the existing regulation in order to respond to these situations. Regarding the development of the socio-health strategy, well, as this is very good, we continue to repeat the development of this strategy in the debates that we have of these characteristics, but I would like to speak more about concrete things, demand or urge the Basque Government to approve the portfolio of socio-health services... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... But I would like to talk more about specific things and demand or urge the Basque Government to approve the portfolio of social and health services, which is pending. And then, too, we are talking about the Strategic Social Services Plan, which we could also talk about, the II Strategic Social Services Plan, which we could also talk about in other debates. In short, we believe that the compromise amendment does not give a necessary response to the situation of these people, the response that had to be given, is not seeking a solution. They present a need that is not a whim; of course, it is probably a need, that they are in a situation of special vulnerability. They have been deinstitutionalized and seen overnight on the street. They don't have an out-of-court appeal to go to. And, on the other hand, because they are in residences, certain accommodation resides, because they have been excluded from the GIR which, as I say, they received until 2020. The explanation given to me in the previous debate is that the criteria were not being applied well. Go for an explanation, huh? It turns out that Lanbide's criteria were not being applied well, but the incorrect application of these criteria was causing these people to get a GIR for justice, and to review that those criteria were not being applied well they stopped charging. I mean, even worse, don't I? In that sense, I believe that this Government must also be given a hard ear, because, obviously, things with this particular group have not been done right from the start. And, in that regard, we continue to call for an urgent, immediate, and already, solution for people who are in a situation of special vulnerability and very delicate. There's nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u75	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. I'm going to explain to you now, Mrs. Garrido, what is the reason for the transactional. Indeed, you have already explained this, and this debate was also discussed a year ago. At the moment what comes to regulate the RGI states that one cannot perceive more than two RGIs per dwelling, that is, per living unit. Only two, at most, in one house. The decree established a number of exceptionalities in article 6 so that certain social housing units could receive an unlimited number of income-guarantee benefits, basically to meet this reality, the reality of these housing units and housing units. But it is true, as you have pointed out, that a few years ago Lanbide adopted an interpretation as to when such authorization can be given - which is one of the precepts laid down in that article - an authorization by the deputies to certain Community dwellings, and considered Lanbide in that interpretation that there are certain socio-health accommodations were not within the framework of the interpretation of this article 6. And, indeed, we do not share that interpretation. But I want to expand a little further on this issue. The reality is that Lanbide's interpretation was that, given that there are certain socio-health accommodation that is addressed from the third sector, they sometimes have links or make their inclusion processes with their users in coordination with the Administration, but what is the housing and where they are housed do not have elements of coordination or collaboration with the Administration. And this element, let us say, the lack of coordination or connection with the Administration so that the Member does not give them such authorization or integrate them into that framework of the portfolio of services of the Member or of the historical territory. And the fact that he did not have that authorization, which was mandatory, was that Lanbide interpreted that they were not within the framework of those exceptionalities. Good. Within the framework of the Bizkaia Boards, an agreement was adopted which all groups represented on the Bizkaia Boards, in addition to their recent support, including theirs. And what did he propose? Well, beyond the mandate given by Parliament to the Members of Parliament, the possibility of incorporating social services resources into these registers should be considered and therefore given authorisation to these accommodation units. Furthermore, what the Bizkaia Boards were asking was for the Basque Government to be urged to create a formula - called collaborative accommodation - that would allow these floors, which are managed by the third sector, to have this form of collaborative accommodation. And to the extent that they have this form of collaborative accommodation, the parliament could, if it could, interpret that they could be granted such permission and, therefore, register them where they should be registered. And from there they are within the framework of this exceptionality and can charge the RGI all those users who are in these accommodations. And that is basically what, which is what is agreed within the framework of the Bizkaia Boards, has been incorporated into the transactional. That is to say, in the first point, the first point is true, and it is that the Members are urged to reflect on the incorporation of these accommodation units which the third sector manages in the registers of the Member's own social services. But in order for the parliament to do that, it has to have a cover. And coverage is that new concept called collaborative accommodation. Well, new, which is not new either, but to establish that framework which is that of collaborative accommodation, and from there the deputies can do that exercise of incorporating them into the register. I know it seems like very messy and very complicated, but basically we consider this to be the formula. It is true that it is late, that at the time it would have been adopted directly by the... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...but, basically, we consider this to be the formula. It is true that it is late; that if at the time it had been adopted directly by collaborative accommodation and the Basque Government had started to activate this formula, we would not be where we are now. But the reality is that there is a consensus within the Bizkaia Boards on this issue. And I think we should extend it here, to the framework of the Basque Parliament. And that here, in the Basque Parliament, we have to urge the government to do what has also been asked of it since the Bizkaia Councils. From there. Obviously, it is appropriate to deal with the situation of dependency and also of functional diversity, which extends the allocation of public resources, which are not collaborative with the third sector, public. And, in this sense, we have also incorporated an element into the transactional that has to do with... which basically has its translation in that within the framework of the Sociosanitary Strategy, which already incorporates the need to increase these accommodations, because it is true that they are frankly insufficient at the moment, that the Basque Government is urged to persevere in the increase of these public endowments. And from there, in addition to this element, we have also added a part contained in our original text, which is that it should be developed definitively, and in collaboration with the third sector, because the Second Strategic Plan for Social Policies and that it should be brought - that is true that we said in the original - as soon as possible to the framework of the Basque Parliament. In any case, we have been told that we are already working on its development. And, therefore, trusting that this is the case and that at the moment what is being done, or what is being done, as we have been transferred, is precisely to get in touch with the third sector and to talk to the third sector about the needs and concerns they have, because assuming that, we have agreed to incorporate it as it is in the text. Therefore, and I will conclude, because I believe that this is a debate that we had last year, we have indeed joined your concern, Mrs Garrido. We understand that it is frankly unfair to discriminate or generate uncovered pockets of a vulnerable population with regard to the provision of GIR. We believe that the moment now opened with the reform of the GIR is a propitious time precisely to have these reflections and put them on the table and discuss them and try to reach consensus. But, beyond that, we believe that in this particular question, in this particular question, the formula for resolving the problem is already on the table, and it has already reached a general agreement of all political forces within the framework of the Bizkaia Boards, I insist, and it was that in view of the impossibility, and with this I conclude, but I repeat it again, in view of the impossibility of the parliaments to give such authorization to certain accommodation units which are managed by the third sector in respect of persons who have dependence or some functional diversity, in view of the impossibility that the parliament claims to have to give such authorization, and on the basis that such authorization is not given Lanbide interprets that it cannot, that it cannot, except them in the perception of the GIR, what must be done is to give them the category of collaborative accommodation within the framework of the Basque Government, within the autonomous framework. And that, that agreement, has already been reached within the framework of the Bizkaia General Councils. And we believe that this is where we must once again urge the Basque Government to comply. And nothing else. So, frankly, I believe that the debate has the whole sense of the world that these needs must be met, but we believe that the solution is already on the table. And beyond asking your group to look for solutions, which is basically what is at its first point, because if the solution is already on the table, I do not know very well why we are here today. Because I understand that the reflection on income guarantee income, which is to go into detail on that issue, will have to go into it, but, come on, within ten minutes today because it is going to be frankly difficult. And the truth is, it's not our purpose. We, beyond this specific issue, do not want to address this week a debate which we believe must take place by responsibility in other frameworks, in other frameworks and at other times and, probably, in other times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u78	Thank you, President. Well, Mrs. Garrido, Mr. Soto told you very well. Nor do I explain very well why the People's Party is not in this agreement, sincerely. And then I'm going to expand a little bit on that issue that I think is completely inexplicable. But we are going to try to put a little bit of the question, which also deserves it. As has been said, we discussed this issue on 25 February. And on March 30 there was even an appearance with members of the Etxea Josu Association, and there we could see that we are talking about a specific case, a single case, which is given concretely in Álava. Therefore, no matter how hard it is, it is not a question of the general denial of IGR to people with mental illness, because as much as I repeat that is not the case. It's a case in Alava. There is no other case in Euskadi that has been detected. And if he doesn't, I'll tell him to tell us again. This is something we have asked you every time this matter has been brought in. You've repeated it. But when we ask him to give us a case, then he doesn't. This is particularly a problem with the accommodation of this association. And it is not due either to Lanbide's criteria or to restrictive interpretations, but rather that the accommodation of this association does not meet the requirements required by the regulations to consider them a temporary reception centre. If I did, there wouldn't be that problem. I too want, so that there is no doubt, because I do not want my words to be misinterpreted, to recognize the importance of the actions that this association makes. But we do have to situate the situation. And, therefore, I do ask you not to say things that are not right. And, moreover, we know, because they commented to us themselves in the appearance, that since the Foral Diputación de Álava is trying to find solutions. The problem that arises has to do with collective accommodation, not with people with mental illness. And the regulations require, and you know it, that the center is authorized and approved and that in addition one of these situations be given that I will comment on: or that it be agreed, agreed, contracted by the Administration for that reception service... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... and that there be one of these situations which I will comment on: either that it is agreed, agreed, contracted by the Administration for that reception service; or that it is a reception resource associated with other social or socio-occupational inclusion programmes. And the regulatory determination for accommodation to be considered collective for the purposes of two benefits requires it to be considered a temporary reception centre. And the problem is that these centers of the association are permanent, not temporary. Once the question has been raised, I will focus on the inexplicable — obviously subjective — point of view that the People's Party is not in this transaction today. Because I was asking Mr. Soto to explain why we can be here. Man, it seems to me more inexplicable than I am. And I find it inexplicable because at the first point of the transaction we specifically address the situation in the field outside these issues. And we also have a text that has been adopted in its second part by the unanimity of the joint groups at the General Councils of Bizkaia, also by the People's Party. It is inexplicable that today the People's Party does not print its signature in this text. But not only because it captures that first point that has already been approved by all the political groups that we are sitting in this House today, but also because, if you go to page 33 of the session log of that session of the Bizkaia General Councils, you can find the statements of the spokesman of the People's Group saying that the really important thing was not this that was taken up in the first point, but what we take up in the second point, that is the reform of the GIR. That's why it's doubly inexplicable. But let's go to triple no explanation. The third point. It is that in the third point we take up what you put forward in your second point of the initiative, which is that from the socio-health point of view, the agreements continue to be used to increase the number of places according to the needs of this sector. Three questions that will explain to me why the People's Party cannot sign here today. And the fourth point, because it is so logical and therefore also so inexplicable that the Group of the European People's Party does not subscribe to it, is that the second Euskadi Strategic Social Services Plan should continue to be drawn up on the basis of the evaluation of the first of the plans, and that it should also be worked with the third sector. Mr Soto has explained this very well, and that is why I am not going to spend too much time with him. But you can also call the spokesman of the Bizkaia General Councils of your group to explain that the really important thing, with which any dysfunction in this type of problem is stopped, is with the reform of the RGI. We, as we have already announced on more than one occasion and in the past full of control I have commented, believe that the best social investment that can be made in our country is precisely the issue of inclusion through our Basque system of income guarantee. Our commitment has been to make a more agile, more effective model and, moreover, on the basis of everything that has been worked out - which has been little in the previous legislatures - a bill that would be able to unite many wills would be referred to this House. The bill that has already been referred to this House includes 200 already processed allegations, such as the bill itself. And one of the changes that is going to end this problem is the fact that two housing benefits are no longer maximum. By the way, Mrs Garrido, we could also see who proposed this limitation. I think it's a good deal, Mr. Soto. I believe that today in this House it will be approved, obviously the votes give. But the important thing is not that the votes give, the important thing is that it solves a problem that we have known, and I think that is why we are in this House. I regret that the proposing group has not been able to sign this compromise amendment. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u79	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Foreign patriots are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Well, I don't know, it happens to other members of the legislature, but when you look up and you see people who like you in the guest tribe, you get a different mood. Welcome (... .). Well, I guess... that there are at least a great deal to be said, both by Mr. Soso, and by Mr. Rico. But I shall begin with the proclamation I make of many times, and I shall not tire of saying it. In this town, the model of social service works, and it works well. That doesn't mean it can't be fixed, altered or improved. In several ways. There's always something to be better than that, and it's always good to make it better. The complexity of the situation requires an effort of public institutions, and we understand that this effort to maintain a cohesion is the best investment in the country. Before this situation our team agrees that the public − services should be guaranteed and that a firm wager for social policy is to be made, with the individuals and collective members who are in a state of the highest possible capacity. And for these purposes, it is evident that the guarantee of money is an essential instrument. A little as a general context, including the specification, I think Mr. Soto has given a clear explanation of the case, and the repetition would perhaps be too much... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... I think Mr. Soto has given a clear explanation of the case, and to repeat it, perhaps, would be too much. But I would like to add several points or points to make it clear. The profession does not set the criteria for the pensioners of the revenue, according to the kind of disease a person has or has not. He doesn't ask if the kind of disease a person has, or whether they're mental or not. Yes, the security regulations of the revenue in which the revenues are established are the criteria of this typeology. And those who are acknowledged to observe the conditions established on the system of social services, and consequently are authorized by common lodgings. And the case that has brought us to this enterprise, as Mr. Rico has advanced it, is a particular case that takes place in Aran. And I don't want to give her the importance of her size at all. I will tell you more, he boasts in some way that we may be treated of a case in this legislature, for he puts us in some way into that human scale which we often all speak of, and which we all preach? ; one in that man's Basque. And that's at least −ni I'm glad and proud of. But I've already said that when we treated him last year, I said so that− must give things an integral solution, and I believe that the middle way we've suggested is that he tries to make this integral solution. It was a solution of the organization, it was between the three departments of fun, and, although it was a long suggestion, it's a perfectly accurate proposition: the half-way proposal which he proposes to promote the protection of society by the new law of income. I'd read you, but, actually, you've got it, and, well, it's pretty long. But I think the first point clearly indicates the way to the solution. Eta, bigarrenak, well, positively appreciates the amendment to this problem contained in the draft law of the system of income guarantees and inclusion referred to this House, in the way in which we have been explicit in recent times. Our intention with this bill is to reach out to areas that by social evolution, which by different circumstances or situations so far has not been concretely arrived at. The third point calls for the further development of the social and health strategy presented by this legislature and for it to implement, in accordance with the needs identified, the agreements concluded, or the agreements referred to, to places for the social and health care of persons with mental health problems, with the shared objective of improving the support and quality of life of these persons, talking about the fourth of working with the other competent administrations and the participation of the third sector in the Second Strategic Plan for Social Services in Euskadi. I think it will be possible to say that, in the end, there are references to continuing to work and such, which are always the same criticisms that are always made. What happens is that I believe that even those who make these criticisms should be aware of the certain degree of adanism they employ when they make that criticism, because there are really some institutions and a government here that are put to work to deal with this case that we are talking about in Álava as well. I believe that we are facing a cross-cutting, integral, interinstitutional interdepartmental agreement and I believe that it is widely shared by the groups in this House. And it is true, Mrs Garrido, and I join in that sense in the criticism they have made to you. I believe that you have not seen yourself in a better position to join this agreement, which is an agreement in which you could even sell today the idea that you have moved this government and these institutions, because the initiative is yours. I think we are about to be able to congratulate ourselves on that. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u81	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u82	Thank you, Madam President. It is clear that combating social exclusion must be a priority for all public authorities. Exclusion leads, in many cases, and condemns the lack of integration that administrations, together, I think, should avoid. The public authorities must have the necessary tools to provide a system of guarantees that provides protection and coverage to those who are in a situation of need and vulnerability. Therefore, since Vox, we believe that the first requirement that administrations must meet is that the social protection system should reach those who really need it. Vulnerable and resourceless people cannot and should not be left unprotected in the care of their most basic needs, but the protection system cannot and should not provide coverage to those who do not really need it. And this must be the first criterion of social justice: to help and be supportive with those who do need the social protection system. But certainly, people who need system protection should also be offered an opportunity. We believe that social aid cannot and should not be a definitive solution. We believe that it is necessary to provide people in a situation of social exclusion with the tools, opportunities and itineraries necessary to enable them to carry out an autonomous and independent life and thus achieve full integration into society. It is necessary, through the employment integration routes, that people in vulnerable situations be able to enter the labour market as a better formula for their full integration. There is no better social policy than a good... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...people in vulnerable situations can enter the labour market as a better formula for their full integration. There is no better social policy than a good employment policy, and it is necessary to establish the appropriate routes for each case. But, above all, it is essential that this is achieved through individualized monitoring, because we are aware that the role endures everything. And, unfortunately, violations of the rules themselves, their measures and the objectives set by them are often not uncommon. In the case of people with mental illness, their employment is obviously more complicated. It may therefore be necessary to strengthen resources whose content is of a work-related nature, but which, in turn, apply more lax levels of demand than those required in conventional protected employment undertakings. All this with one objective, the objective of avoiding the chronification of exclusion and offering an opportunity for social integration also to people with mental illness. Public coverage for people at risk of exclusion must have a temporary vocation. The contrary implies the implicit recognition of the system's own failure. It is true that in the case that we are dealing with today, through the GNP presented by the People's Citizen Group, which was obviously also discussed in its day, it has its own specificities and unique peculiarities. From Vox we consider that, in fact, there is a field of improvement in terms of GIR and mental illnesses that must cover them. In fact, this week we had the attendance at the Health Commission in which we were told of the shortcomings that all people with mental illness have. We are talking about situations of residential exclusion that people with mental illness suffer due to the interpretative change made by Lanbide around these people and community accommodation, which also prevents the collection of GIR for this group. Its delicate vulnerability has also been aggravated since the Lanbide criteria were changed in March 2020 and people with mental illness living on community floors will be denied GIR. We will agree that situations of residential exclusion represent one of the most extreme manifestations of social exclusion. These circumstances lead to the situation of extreme helplessness, where, sometimes, the lack of a support network further exacerbates, if any, the problems faced by these people. Having a support network that offers minimal coverage is of utmost importance, not only from an economic point of view, but also from an emotional point of view, in difficult personal times. On the other hand, we share the proposal put forward by the People's Group on the poor development of the social and health area dedicated to these people. Mental health agreements are insufficient and do not provide sufficient coverage to meet existing needs. Therefore, everything that calls for improvements to the benefits in this regard, we believe that they must be taken into account. In any case, we believe that offering better services and greater coverage requires an interinstitutional commitment, where outside bodies also have to contribute according to their competence. Institutional synergies need to be harnessed to improve coverage in situations of severe distress. From our political group, we believe that such situations should be dealt with during the reform of the Income Guarantee Act. We must remember that the reform of this legislation has been regarded by the Lehendakari himself as a priority, and we therefore hope that it will be presented in order to work on improving our social protection system. We understand that it needs greater commitment and greater resources to try to meet, recover and integrate those who suffer from a situation of severe social exclusion. It is necessary in this sense, for this profile of concrete people, to create resources that work both the coverage of basic needs and the reconstruction of socio-laboral habits and skills. The institutions sometimes go a little towing and act a posteriori reactively, taking care of situations of emergency and/or extreme need when these have already occurred. More means are therefore needed for the development of preventive measures or policies to avoid situations of severe residential exclusion, such as people with mental illness. Therefore, we bet to offer an urgent solution for these people with mental illness in a situation of residential exclusion. We believe that the final solution must come from the debate on the reform of the GIR, and above all that the social protection system must be really linked to the work integration routes, which is what we have to reach at the end as the goal of these aids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u83	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. Okay. I'm going to make it very short today, because the question we've got on the table again or the discussion isn't new. You've already mentioned it before, but we had more than a year's discussion exactly the same, and it's gone off again and there's no clear solution. And further, the propositions and corrections made by one and the other, are not new, and do not bring here the necessary solution? And there you are, hanging around. And it is well known that the reflections and proposals we make about the rent are different, especially in the Popular Party, in order to ensure the income. Further, I would say they are antagonics, and there it goes (in anything? ) Before. And is it (in anything? ) Before you, Mrs Garrido, the problem you've brought to-day for the second time, which is mental health problems, is the state of those who are out of rental revenues, that's the real problem, the big problem. But when your team opposes the revenues to support the revenues, many more collective stigmatizes, even against those you have today defended. And that's the way to say it. And what did you say today, Mrs. Garrido, about those who have to be there and those who don't have to be there and to such, ba, aber, mesez, e? No, it doesn't. Denok gogoratu beharko genuke diru-sarrerak bermatzeko errentaren inguruan ari garenean eskubideez ari garela, babeserako eskubidez ari garela, éta... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ...no procede. We should all remember that when we're talking about rents, we're talking about rights, we're talking about the right to protect, and that it should be our goal to spread it. And these distinctions you make are out of place. But, well, there are also those we share, and especially because the problem you've brought to the discussion today is a very serious problem, and because we're still in front of this problem because we're trying to leave people who are part of a collective disaster and have mental illness helpless. Behin eta berriro Euskal Herria Bildutik mahai heurean jarri dugun kontu bate ére bada diru-sarrareak bermatzeko errentak eta babes systemek disfuntzio eta Mugak sakonak erakutsi dituela, eta horiek maiz hainbat partona systematik kanpo geratzea eragiten duela, ez? We have often argued and denounced that one thing is the law and another is the criteria of interpretation that are made about the law. And we have denounced how on too many occasions these are used to leave people out of the system rather than to include them. And today we find a situation of this kind, and it can be very particular and very concrete, but it exists. Hortaz, arazoa ez dago legean, ezta dekretuan era, arazoa irispidean dago; eta hor egon beharko litzateke konponbidea. Even when this has been solved, we find before us another reality. Beyond the RGI, we have another matter, and it would be ten thousand times what we have said here last week, Monday at the Medical Committee, and the people who have mental health problems with mental health and mental health aren't in the middle of public politics, that there is a terrible lack of resources and we're short of public care. What's that got to do with it? In this case, that many persons who have a mental illness should not be excluded from the public network, must appeal to the means offered by the associations of the third sector, which are private in this case, because they do not have a square in public services. And again the mental health is in the corners, and it feeds on gills. And, well, you guys who support the government have brought back the same correction in a year's time. In the meantime, the problem remains as it is, which means that what was tried has not been effective. And he's come to the committee to say that what's proposed hasn't come to a solution. They've told us straight and clear. Yet you continue to plan the same formula. It doesn't make much sense. And even the middle way goes that way. After a year's time, you're inst a se se se sigdindo la positidad de incorporar. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, Esk, and casis is offensive. Eta gauza gehiago esaten will say. We have serious doubts about what has been added if it is really going to bring what is expected, hopefully so. Let us hope that we will not be in a year's time with the same debate and the same situation. There is also a social strategy, and when it has been refused here to accept a special decree to develop a case of services. So there's this third point, too. Eta 4.ean esaten continues to work on the elaboration and definition of the Second Euskadi Strategic Social Services Plan. It's just that we're three years late. Orduan, ba, well, ez is serious. Ez is serious. Guk's got a baby. And I'll leave it there. We know what the problem is, we know where the solution is, and it's a matter of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u85	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Passing the answer round, representative of the Basque Groups of Popular-Cellanos, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u86	Well, they're actually telling me this way how fast. Well, I'll be quick but blunt and blunt, as the debate deserves. But I'll try to be quick and get to the point. We have two debates in this House on the same subject, which we have raised again from the People-Citizens Group, because there is no solution. Seek an urgent solution to respond to people with mental illness who are excluded from GIR for living in community housing, so that they can receive the necessary financial benefits immediately. Yes, Mr. Soto, this is what you said a year ago. Seeking a solution as a matter of urgency. What is happening is that you, with the agreement with the Government today, should no longer feel that this is an urgent need. It is difficult for us to oppose such a specific, specific and common-sense request. Of course, it is the same text that we tabled a year ago, we came to an amendment of compromise with you, and you this year as you agree with the government to approve a toast to the sun. Because, as you said a year ago, talking about studying the opportunity was a toast to the sun, which is the text you signed this year with the government. What you were saying... no, no, it's the same thing. I mean you... a year ago I was asking for an urgent solution, now it seems that it's not urgent, that you don't care if the opportunity is studied. Well, Mr. Rico. Of course, you were also talking a year ago about not agreeing to reform the regulation of GIR for a specific case, and now in your compromise amendment you are talking about reforming the regulation of GIR. What are we left with? I mean, or not before, now yes, or now because we have the bill on the table... You know that this is not a specific case, and the debate has taken place at the General Councils in Bizkaia, but obviously here we are in the Basque Parliament, specific competences also in the field of health and social services, and I therefore believe that in the text proposed by the People's Party-Citizens we should be more ambitious than of course the text adopted at the General Councils in Bizkaia. And we are not talking about specific cases that are confined to Vitoria, and the proof is that the debate has been taken to the Bizkaia General Councils... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... We are not talking about specific cases that are confined to Vitoria, and the proof is that the debate has been taken to the Bizkaia General Councils. And besides, I think that the work also of the public representatives, since we always go behind society, is that we can also give a solution to possible situations that can be given in the future, and that they will probably go on increasing, because as has also been said here, Fedeafes appeared last week, the Federation of Associations of Families and Persons with Mental Illness, and the X-ray that was made us of the increase of people with mental illness in a specific study that they have carried out on the impact of these diseases on the juvenile population, because it is of concern. Therefore, and already with people who are at risk of exclusion and in a situation of special vulnerability, much greater. I therefore believe that it is fair not only because of the realities that we now have, be it few or many, or are confined to the territories that are subscribed to, that we give a solution to a reality that, as I said, is very likely to increase because there are more cases and accommodation of this kind that have to appear, precisely because of the lack of resources in the outside institutions, in the outlaws, which are the ones who in the first instance had to cover these people with special needs for suffering from mental illness. That is why, of course, we are talking about outside parliaments providing solutions. You said: it's that the outside parliaments do, I already know they're in conversation with this association, and they told us at the hearing, but those solutions don't come, they don't seem to come, and they're being told a little bit that they're looking for a solution, but I'm telling you that those solutions don't come. And of course the problem, Mr. Rico, is in people with mental illness, because they go to this kind of community residential resources, because they have nowhere else to go. And the change in criteria, obviously, there's a change in criteria. We are no longer going to get into a regulatory debate or not, but it is true that these people were being given a criterion here, and in 2020 we do not know by chance or not by chance, they are being given another criterion, and they have been led to a very unfair situation that we believe needs to be remedied. And finally, of course, our model of protection and GIR does not coincide with that of Bildu. We are at the service of a model of protection that works, that aid is not in itself, that is on time, for as long as people need it, but that the objective must be employability, not only of those who receive social assistance, but of those who are unemployed. And to that end, it must be said that, obviously, Lanbide does not work either, and that it is also an outstanding subject for this Government. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u87	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Soto has a word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Garrido, I'm going to explain it to you again, because I don't know if I've explained myself wrong or you don't understand me. It is true that last year in this Parliament an amendment was adopted by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, which came to say what appears in the first part of today's transactional. Well, that's right. At that time, what the PNV and the Socialist Party were saying was to urge the parliaments, the historical territories to value, to consider incorporating these community housing units into that network of residential centres, could allow these parliaments to grant such mandatory authorization as Lanbide requires to exempt those community housing units. And they considered that that would be possible, that the historical territories could do that study exercise and make that incorporation. Well, that has been shown, of course, that throughout this year it has not been so. But that has not been the case, because the deputies have said so, and the Ararteko, by the way, the deputies have said that the deputies say that there is no coverage, no coverage, yes, there is no regulatory coverage to be able to incorporate or give such authorization to such Community accommodation. And that to the extent that they can't give it, because they don't have that sectoral regulation to be able to do so, they can't give the authorization, and therefore, they can't be exempted on the basis of the GIR decree. Well, what happened in the meantime, which is what you want to omit or forget. And it is that within the framework of the Bizkaia Boards there has been, yes, there is a possibility that based on the figure of collaborative accommodation, collaborative accommodation, that they are allowed through the Basque Government to generate such collaboration with such community accommodation and that they are granted this form of collaborative accommodation, and that from there, on that basis and on the basis of the inclusion plans developed in collaboration with the Basque Government, these community accommodation are indeed within the framework of the exception of the decree. It just seems like it's very complex. True, it is true that if in his day, if in his day, and also the Ararteko, he had been considered by Lanbide, and that is where, there is a point that we raised last year and that has not been addressed, if it is true that last year Lanbide would have considered in his exercise of interpretation that can never be excluded in the perception of a benefit such as this, if there is a user who is in the course of an inclusion process, it would have been interpreted that no one can be suspended from a GIR benefit, it is true that this debate would not be given. But, in any case, the reality is that based on that interpretation that has been made of the regulation, it does not have that authorization and a solution had to be sought, and the solution is here, it is in the compromise text, and it was addressed within the framework of the Bizkaia Boards. Of course, if we stick to the idea of: well, Lanbide shouldn't interpret it that way. It has been a year, Lanbide continues to interpret it this way, we offer no solution, and what we come here is to urge the Basque Government and the Members of Parliament to find it, because the problem is not going to be solved. What we have come here is to agree and to propose a solution that has already been put on the table within the framework of the Bizkaia Councils. You've come here to say continue... You have said that in the first point of your original proposal it is said that an urgent solution is sought, but it does not say which one or any proposals, in short, because you will already tell me how it is going to be resolved urgently. What has been done by our group is to present an initiative that was presented within the framework of the Bizkaia Boards. He remembered, and from there... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... You'll tell me how it's going to be resolved urgently. What has been done by our group is to present an initiative that was presented within the framework of the Bizkaia Boards. She remembered, and from there all the groups supported her. You didn't do that. And, of course, the model of modification, let's say, of the GIR that you come up with, and that we will probably have the opportunity to discuss with the Basque Government and with the groups that support the Basque Government and with the rest of the forces represented here, because you gave a lot and it is different. Moreover, I believe that the fundamental reason why you did not sign this initiative today, yes, it has to do with precisely that we are immersed in that process, yes, with which yesterday the bill was introduced, and for that reason you did not want to..., you did not want to sign here today, it will not be that you say that you assume, yes, that you assume a framework, that you assume a framework, I do not know, that you do not share, when you are talking about a very particular case, and that what is raised here is basically an opportunity for a solution for a sector, indeed, that is going very badly, and that it is a vulnerable sector. What you have done here is before the debate and the reflection that is going to be taken on the reform of the GIR, you have not wanted to subscribe to this initiative, because you do not want it to appear in the press that the People's Party joins Elkarrekin We can in this case, to an initiative specifically referring to the GIR, because you have behind you those who can point out precisely why, that is why, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u89	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Rico, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u90	Thank you, Madam President. I repeat, I am not going to say that I am going to be brief, because I do not promise, but well, I'm just as surprised. The question, Mrs Garrido, I think it is clear: they did not want to sign this compromise amendment which they could have signed perfectly. Mr Soto has told you, we have discussed this issue in this Parliament. Later, this same debate was brought to the General Councils of Bizkaia, and man, if their data are so accurate and objective as to say that because it has been discussed in the General Councils of Bizkaia that proves that there are more cases, when in the ones themselves..., in the debate itself I refer you to the diary of sessions of the General Councils of Bizkaia, it is said that no cases have been found, but listen, because out of solidarity it arises. Man, those data aren't there. I'll tell you again, and look, because you're spreading to one, to another, just like that, but I'm gonna do it again, I'm asking you here in the gallery today so you can have a chance to tell us about it and tell us about it. Tell us another case, another case, tell us, because you've been saying this is a general problem in Euskadi for a year and a half. We say no, that it is a concrete case of an association that has all our respect, and that we highly value its work. But you, you're wrong that you're wrong, you're not. That is that it is not a general problem that is occurring in Euskadi, and it is not a problem that is derived from the mental illness they suffer, it is not true. It is a problem that has to do with the type of accommodation and the regulations that establish accommodations that may or may not, can be exempted from the maximum limit of two perceptions per dwelling that the current regulations set. And he explained it very well to Mr Soto, but she explained it very well to Mrs Amaia Fernández, junta of the People's Party at the Bizkaia General Councils, when she expressly said that the important thing is to address the modification of the GIR. And I have told you today, and you have had the opportunity, I understand, to see, even though it is the most important points of the bill that has already been referred to this House for amendment of the GIR. And you will find that this impediment disappears, and disappears, among other things, because you who say that this modification of the GIR comes late, no, not late, is that you have undergone a thorough procedure of taking it to social agents, of receiving allegations. And the bill that has come to this House already includes 200 allegations, including the amendment of that limitation, which will make that problem impossible in any situation. In the third point of our amendment we talk about squares precisely for people with mental illness, and implement, because it says: "no, continue", no, no, we say implement according to needs. No, no, this is not a toast to the sun that following what we say is that we continue to develop the socio-health strategy, but that is evidence, that we have presented it in this legislature, that the socio-health strategy has been presented in this legislature, and that is indeed what this kind of needs are. And we say specifically that agreements for squares are implemented according to needs, and that is something that, at least in theory, you ask for. I do not know what you will vote for, but obviously, Mrs Garrido, it is something that does to me (?) if the PP is not in this transactional today, it is because it has preferred to be on the banner, on the banner, well, it is worth it, because it is on the banner. We will continue to be in the solutions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u91	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Even if it's a lie, I'm here for a short time. Mrs Garde, the criticism you've given Mrs Garrido on her point of view is a guarantee of money. The criticisms you've made us, too vague as ever, and because we don't go too deep, and so on, it's not serious. And what do you propose? What are you guys proposing to do? I don't think you've even introduced any corrections. What do you propose?... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... It's not serious. And what do you propose? What did you propose? I don't think you've even introduced any corrections. What do you propose? Is that serious? That is to say, to make the rest of us lack of seriousness, even when we have tried to move from last year's position, whether it be one or more problems, but even if one is a problem, we try to move a general point of view, which is not enough. I can accept criticism, but what do you propose? Is it serious to propose nothing and throw it at the others, as always, that they are too vague. Eta, Garrido andrea, the criticism I have to make to you is something similar, because, of course, you criticize us that last year we said that it was not worth doing a reform of the law of the RGI for a single case. I believe that this phrase had a continuation: that it was in the face of the situation that the reform that I believe has been in this Parliament since yesterday would arrive as soon as possible. And I repeat what I just said: I don't care if it's a case or a hundred. I am glad that, in one case, in what I have said before, we are on the human scale of one-one, and that we are dealing with one case, but if there were one hundred, that I have no news of that - as I did last year - I believe that from this Parliament, that in the end we are also trying to urge the Government to do things that lead to solutions to the problems, I believe that the solution has been put on the table, on the thread of what the Bizkaia General Councils themselves recently approved - if I am not mistaken - as Mr Rico recalled, with the approval and approval of all the groups. I repeat: I do not think that you have been seen in an equal position in order to be able to say within four legislatures that it was you who moved the government and the institutions into a complete agreement to solve these kinds of cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u93	Thank you. Martinez, Vox, andreak? Guard? [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll put the original text of the proposition as the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters 7; the opponents are 46; abstations, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u94	Not accepted. Next, the middle-term correction of Podemos Ankerz, Eukal Socialists, and Eucabertians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; abstainments, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u95	So it's accepted. Five point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the House of Elizon Josu Estarrona Elizdo EHGGD, to develop the state of the artist, Creator, and Cultural State for the purpose of making us happy. Discipline and final resolution. It's your call, Mr. Estarrona, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. And, well, culture always ends up at the end, and I'd like to put that on the table as a critic and a self-critic. But today in the plenoa about fascism and self-critarianism and freedom and expression... We've been talking about freedom. And it must be said that there is no culture without freedom and no freedom without culture. And therefore there is no culture without freedom of expression. And from this point on, I would like to make a few reflections and exclamations, taking advantage of this point today. And these exclamations and reflections would I fain make for me from a good definition of culture, − for me: culture is freedom in its supreme expression. La culture es lbertad en su máxima expresiión. In the 1960s, like thousands of other people looking for a better future, a woman came to Bilbo who had worked hard in Leon's mining basins. They had survived a cruel dictatorship. And one day he went to a doctor who asked him about his name. His own daughters became perplexed when the woman, today octogenarian, confessed that her real name denied by Francoism was Freedom. After 40 years of censorship, the imposed, the official, but also the self-imposed, was able to regain in the register his full name: Libertad Aurora. For freedom has thousands of colors, and amongst colours we find that culture is strong, because, as I have said, culture is the highest expression of freedom. 40 years of censorship, and 40 years are the ones he has fulfilled during his kidnapping of... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... because it is the most supreme expression of freedom. 40 years of censorship, and 40 years, the Basque journalist Pablo González has fulfilled during his kidnapping of more than two and a half months in a country of the European Union. As I passed on to Freedom Aurora, his name also seems to be a problem. And in this case for being Russian. And today we want to call again for his release, denounce the deafening silence of many, and call for the full involvement of our country's elements and institutions. And this past May 3, this past week, we recalled that only in 2021 did at least 55 journalists in the world be killed for carrying out work under article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a fundamental right. And it's nothing but freedom of expression. And yesterday, for my part, Israel forced this fundamental right to murder the Palestian journalist of Shireen Abu Akleh. So this is where our accusation, our hug, our close ones, our colleagues at Al Jazea, and our solidarity with the people of Palestine. This first thought and exclamation, the cry for freedom, as the fundamental and indispensable element of culture, I am going, as I have said, to instruct you in its supreme expression, because culture is freedom. And therefore I am not going to speak of the first how important culture is, whether in society or in our lives; but whether it be of my own invention, the professionalizing of the conditions of the professionals, the artists, and the professionals of the sector, and the need of structure and dignity. Many teams have already been made around the theme. The other day, I had an interjected Chief Zupiria, about what we are discussing, about the stately eupscal of the artist. I was also grateful that at the end of the control meeting the intellectual discussions and the soundness of which it sometimes does not exist in this room and in institutions. And the same discussion, I believe, was a very constructive one, having made a contribution of the care and position of each one. And that's why I even suggested the motion in an constructive manner, a very wide motive, very easy. Nor will you deny, then, that in the medium which I set forth to you, we have had a perfect flexibility in the planning of it, and in its negotiations. We've been very flexibility today because we thought it was important to get a deal. But the only thing you've offered us was adhession to your correction. That's what we've been receiving as an answer, and besides, I'm sorry. At first it's true that I've had a rabie. But it's really a pity... pues well, this is what I'm living here. And besides, this correction is the only one that speaks of the tributary frame, which goes not beyond, but only of the tributary frame. And we really don't know why. We don't understand too much why this step back, why this kind of revolt. This proclamation was far more extensive. From this proclamation of the United States of Arts. You have received from the government program five principal commitments to political cultures, which established them for this legislation. And the first of these is, about the conditions of the founders and professionalizing, a tax, which goes far beyond the determinate sphere of tribute. But even here the chief division of law declared that it was covida, and that in the 28th of October 2020 the first engagement was to the founders and producers. And he said in words: "They take a great deal of importance in this sense, by the rules and professionalization of the creators. In this respect, indeed, the principal weakness of the culture and of the professional profession, in professionalism, in structure, and in the field of management." So the chairman of the department made an engagement to go far beyond a certain frame of tax regulations right here, and also spoke about the motion of a mouth about the State of the artist's State in 2018. He spoke of this, and said also that he had raised hope in the sector, and, as he had raised hope, the chief physician himself in several different ways in different communications, and in this sense made many expressions which he had once again named: "los laborors vascos de la cultura con un stateo del artist." This is in relation to media. Also, I've taken a job and a program of EAJ, not a government program, but an EAJ program. And I've been working on the website, where you're talking directly to de crear un stately de proese de campus de Euscade. And that's why I'm not sure I know very well what's in the back of this, that I can't quite understand what's going on, that I'm going to be here today, and not just a step forward, in order to give up that commitment to the department and the chief department. But even at the beginning of the legislation, the press, the website, are election programs, because it often brings us bad moves. But this was the case in words, in words, and even in this chamber. And these are literally the words of the chief physician. Consequently, and especially in the time of Covid, the necessity of a suitable regulation and professionalisation is our intention to make steps to form a regulation which would be more equivalent to state or to it, as in the Eukadin professional cultures. We speak of the state once more. And now, in a way, you're saying that there won't be any separate states. And this is a kind of revolt for us, and I think you owe him an explanation at this moment all the operating and cultural sector. You'll have to explain it to him. But besides, I believe that refusal, that renunciation... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... The entire culture sector. You'll have to explain it to him. But, further, I believe that beyond the consequences of this renunciation, I think it is a mistake in a political plane not to claim the proper state for artists. Besides, the question of Jurisdiction being in a Tribunal, as is often expressed in these days by the heads of the Government, and of the Charms of Autogobernus. And why don't we have a Basque Statue of the Artist? Similarly, because, surely, you are right now claiming, or in your intervention, the issue of the competences of the various institutions and within the Basque institutional framework. Or even, surely, that many of the issues that need to be regulated really fall within the competence of the State. And it's true. But just as there is a Basque law of sport, a Basque law of education or a Basque law of housing - all of them with competing competences in our legal system - there is no problem to develop. And so far you have defended it, and we do not know very well why you can't speak now or there is no willingness or willingness to develop a Basque Artist Statute. And coming back, because your amendment to our proposal as a whole today focuses, as I said, on the tax framework that needs to be developed - which I believe is an important element, but not the only one - it is true that in the Council's appearance they spoke of: we intend to study in collaboration with the parliaments the revision of taxation rules, etc., but we will also propose initiatives to develop forms of sponsorship and micro-mecenanism. Another element. Then, agree on a code of good practice for the recruitment of cultural professionals. Another element that is outside the tax framework. It is also important to obtain a validation or recognition of the professional journey. Another element, which we can bring with us today's powers and which can also be carried out by the Basque Government. Or we will encourage training in management and competitiveness of the self-employed and micro-enterprises in the cultural sector, and we will support entrepreneurship. Also. These and other measures, the framework, fiscal framework, also own, are those that must compose a Basque Statute of the Artist. And that is why we do not understand very well - and I repeat - this resignation. And besides, that's how you get it from the effects of the report you've been sent to. That is to say, that the Stated of the Artist's Basque State must form certain texts, − is received beyond the Fiscal rules. And so we don't really know −eta, we don't know, we don't know what the problem is. No sabemos a qué se debe senuncia a disarlar un stateo Vasco del artist. Then Mr. Zupiria talks to us about Auzolans, he talks to us about collaborative policies, etc. We have shown an absolute disposition over and over again, because in Euskal Herria Bildu we also have broad representation at all administrative levels and in other institutions, to work together, either from the Basque Government and Parliament, either in the General Councils and the Chambers, or at local and municipal level. And we haven't found anyone on the other side, and we're not finding anyone, just the opposite. And my partner Jasone Agirre recently indicated and pointed out that we meet again and again with the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy, which is the Department with which we have less capacity and room for manoeuvre for agreements from the whole Basque Government. But without a doubt, without a doubt. And we know the disposition of other departments, of other groups, we know of the meetings that exist to work other laws, how initiatives are worked out that are brought to this very Parliament. But on the part of Mr. Zupiria's department, spokesman for the Basque Government, zero waist. And we have shown the complete will to act together in order to be a reality of the artist, Creator, and Cultural State, and because we believe that the time has come. It has been given in Madrid a few steps that are important, and that their implementations will also affect our artists and professionals. And besides, I think it is necessary to share and agree with the designs and decisions of a fine culture. And that's repeated in a shared way; and no, not just as I was told by you and... As he has confessed, it must be a deep adaptation to the Basque Council. At least I don't think it's just him. And, as has been said before, we have shown the entire will of decency and harmony, and therefore we do not understand this obstinacy. We don't know what he's talking about, because you're proposing a step back to your decision to leave the state instead of an advance today, at least we're not ready for that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u97	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u98	Thank you very much, President. Good morning again, everyone and everyone. I don't greet the counselors, because there is none, not even the one from Culture, so very well. It is an outstanding subject to improve the working, professional, working and fiscal conditions of many people working within the world of art and creation and cultural and artistic production. It's a pending subject. Things have been done, there is no doubt, but much more needs to be done. And, in addition, there are your commitments from the Administration in relation to that course of action that we have pending. We have also had during the last few years the luck and the luck of talking to the sector of all kinds of people, men and women who work around cultural creation and artistic production. And we have realized that yes, there is a stretch to go and there are things to do. In this Parliament, too, we have received many people who have clearly explained to us the difficulty of developing the sector and the need for a stable framework of rules and measures that favour precisely this - creation, artistic production, cultural creation - and that overcome certain areas and situations of precariousness or professional problems in which a group that is a very heterogeneous collective in functions that it carries out and in activities that it carries out. We seem to be talking about art, we're talking about culture, but around all that there's an impressively diverse and heterogeneous industry in relation to the functions they perform technicians... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... that we talk about culture, but around all that there is an impressively diverse and heterogeneous industry in relation to the functions that perform technicians, creators, people of all kinds linked to the organization of art and culture. And, in addition, we have received people who have come to this House with enthusiasm for the agreement reached in Madrid in 2018 in the subcommittee and who expected, and who certainly expect, to continue here, in the Basque Country, because in certain normative areas because that path that began to walk in 2018 in the subcommittee. Good. Mr Estarrona's initiative is therefore interesting. It was also the question to the counselor. I believe that in this matter, in some way, we all speak a little the same language in relation to the needs to support the working people of the world of culture and the world of artistic creation. And, in this sense, because the subcommission of Congress in 2018 marked very well the necessity and the formulas of action, by unanimity of the parties moreover, and with the connivance of the sector that... And, in that sense, a very important step was taken, on the basis that it can have continuity in the autonomous communities. And in that sense, we must do and work. It is also clear - and that is why we have tabled an amendment - that political action like this must be done, essentially, with the outside parliaments, and more with their departments of finance than with their departments of culture, in relation to this issue. But I think, in that sense, we have to walk around. I'm talking about the interpellation. It was not a contentious interpellation. Looks like it's clear you can work. I thought a deal was going to be signed with the parties that support the government. I'm surprised it didn't. I don't know, I'm a little surprised by the scar attitude in that sense. I do not know whether Mr Estarrona has been very maximalist or the parties supporting the Government have been very restrictive. But in that sense, I think we could have worked on that agreement, which we would have voted for, because I understand that... I am also guided by what has been done at the Basque Culture Council. I have read that at the Basque Council of Culture of 24 June 2021, at the meeting where the adviser was, where Mrs Dobaran was, where Mr Aizpuru, the director of Etxepare, Mrs Larraza, had explained the process of drawing up the Artist's Statute, it was said in the note that it was made public by the institutions, that is, that, in that sense, it was already working on that. That's why I think we're either too late or something's wrong. We've... Finally, I would like to introduce the whole amendment that we have included in this debate. We want the Basque Parliament, we wanted, to urge the Basque Government, within six months - we put that deadline, we are open to any other deadline - in coordination with the competent institutions - well, we are basically talking about the parliaments, but there could also be others - as well as the artistic and cultural sector, a basic report - on what basis? Well, we're talking about the prosecution. But there is more, there are certainly other economic bases for cultural, economic, cultural or even social promotion. A report was presented, on which to base the keys of this future Basque Statute of the Artist. And why did we make that report first on those bases? First, then, to materialize what needs are and what... to what the institutions and the Basque Government and the rest of the institutions are prepared to do. And because maybe the name is the least. The name... We're just around the same in some cases falling into denominations. The Statute. Well, it could be another denomination. But what we consider important is to put black on white what are the steps, what are the steps that are going to be taken. And, therefore, that they materialize in clear and normative actions. That is why we have tabled this amendment in its entirety calling for this report to lay the foundations for the institutions' policy action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u100	President. Lehendakari. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. It is true that we have repeated many times and have been quoted on numerous occasions in all the speeches that we have made in the report that was adopted at the Congress of Deputies in 2018. But I think that, anyway, today we must also start thinking a little bit about it. First of all, for the unanimous support he received. It should be remembered that the vast majority of the groups represented here today voted in favour of this report in the Congress of Deputies. I think that's fundamental. Secondly, because of the model process of participation. A large part, or a large majority, of the associations and all the actors involved in some way in this matter took part in the committee and were also given the opportunity to work on the drafting of this text. And finally, because of the large number of measures proposed in it. This is - and I believe that we have understood this from all the groups and the different institutions - a true road map that has been marking, perhaps at a slower pace than we would have liked, has been marking the path of regulation and the improvement of the working conditions and the conditions in general of our cultural ecosystem. We may or may not agree, as I say, on the speed at which we have been going that way, but what I believe is a unanimous consensus on the port to which we all wish to reach. It has, of course, been a really complex process. As I say, perhaps a little slowed down by different issues. And in the end it has been impossible to define a Statute of the Artist as a unified and self-referenced normative corpus in itself. And it is true that this parliamentarian personally would have liked the Artist's Statute to have existed as such. But different reasons make it absolutely impossible from a legislative technique. First of all, because of the dispersion of the materials to be treated. We are really faced with a very complex subject and the subjects are very scattered and touch different themes or different parts of the... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ...we are really faced with a very complex issue and the subjects are very scattered, and they touch on different themes or different parts of the law. On the other hand, the complexity of the sector; this has been discussed a lot and I imagine that we will be talking again during the debate. The difficulty of defining, for example, what we understand by an artist, what we understand by work of art, what is a performance or what is a show. All this forces us to have to group the content of the Artist's Statute into a battery of different legal norms that ultimately come to the ultimate end, right?, which in the end is what he said: that port we all want to reach, which is to dignify, protect and promote our cultural ecosystem. Shortly after approving this report, when only four months had passed since the first socialist government of Pedro Sánchez, the Royal Decree-Law 16/2018 was approved, which, among other things, meant returning VAT from the 21% to which the People's Party had raised it to 10%, where it had historically been found and where it was once again. It's been a while - I insist again - perhaps more than we all would have liked, and the pandemic has arrived. In this context of global emergency, the Government of Spain will adopt Royal Decree-Law 17/2020, on measures to support the sector, to address the economic and social impact of the covid, an emergency measure which sought to protect the most vulnerable sectors, like so many others approved during that period, and, of course, this sector is among that group of vulnerable. I do not intend to make a detailed list of the different measures that have been taken in the context of the recommendations of that 2018 report, but allow me to stop in the last Royal Decree-Law, on 5/2022, of 22 March - only a few weeks - in which the special employment relationship regime of persons engaged in artistic activities is adapted. Honestly, and this is a personal opinion, I think that before this royal decree-law we find ourselves at a historic moment for the sector. It amends both the Workers' Statute and Royal Decree 1435/1985, a rule that to nothing that we are a little skillful with mathematics we see that he is more than 35 years old, and that regulated the special labor relations of artists. What are the main changes to this royal decree? First of all, the scope of application is broadened so that the necessary technical and auxiliary staff, which so far has not been covered, can also be included. It also includes the production of artistic expressions in the web environment and new dissemination formulas such as streaming; obviously, modalities that it was impossible to imagine in 1985. And perhaps the most important point of this royal decree, at least from my point of view, is the creation of an artistic labor contract. This new contract, which I am not going to entertain but of course I recommend a reading of it because it seems to me to be of great importance to the sector, this contract, as I say, will also be affected by the new changes resulting from the labour reform. Thus, for example, the necessary tools are laid down for the transformation into indefinite when the concatenation of temporary contracts occurs. With the different measures that the Government of Spain has been addressing... I have only briefly reviewed some of them, which this Member considers to be the most important... two thirds of the total proposals of that 2018 report have been responded to; specifically 38 out of 57. The battery of measures promoted by the Government of Spain are the pillars on which we now have to start smoking. Now is when we have to begin to accommodate those pillars, those foundations to the reality and specificities of our Basque cultural ecosystem. And there, perhaps the sector or the most important part, as Mr Estarrona well advanced or feared, is the fiscal chapter. Some tax rules have already been touched upon by these royal decrees, specifically on 26/2018, which refers - as I said - to VAT. But in the rest, as you all know, taxation is the exclusive competence of our institutions. But if the development of the Artist's Statute is being complex, it is no less our institutional framework. To talk about taxation in Euskadi is to talk about the necessary coordination between the Basque Government and the three Foral Deputies; this is a spinal issue that none of you escapes. They are the ones who have competence in tax matters. It is the three Historical Territories and their General Boards that have the capacity to set standards in that direction. We are all familiar with the report commissioned by the Basque Government for a draft of the Statute of the Artist, which has also been cited here. Once it has been completed, it has been referred to this Parliament, and all groups have had at least the opportunity to read it; my group, of course, has read it carefully. It points to the capacity of our institutions to develop that third of the recommendations that remain outstanding. And I would dare say that 90%, if not more, are exclusive competences of the Historical Territories. Does that mean that the Basque Government has nothing to do? Quite the opposite. It is only necessary to take a look at the answer given by the adviser to the question that is causing the motion that we are debating here today. The Basque Government has been an active agent with all the institutions. He has collaborated with the Government of Spain, reminded us here of the Councillor, enriching with his contributions the regulations that I have been quoting so far. But, on the other hand, it has maintained a fluid relationship with the sector, making it a transmission belt. He has participated in the meetings of the Commission for the Coordination of Public Administrations. In short, it has been a kind of agglutinating element. It has given impetus to all the institutions and actors concerned so that, from the logical point of view and with due respect for competence, we can work in a coordinated and effective way. And that is what we have been asking in the amendment tabled today by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group. We call on all the institutions, within their remit, to continue to work towards the development of the recommendations of that report, which was endorsed, as I say, by the whole or the vast whole of the groups we are represented here today. The Basque Socialists are part of the Government of Spain, the Basque Government and the Government of the three Deputies, as well as numerous municipalities. From them we will continue to drive our firm commitment to our cultural and artistic ecosystem. A commitment that no one can question because it is collected black on white in the State Official Gazette. That's where the revolution in democracy takes place, and that's where the socialists have been leaving our mark for decades. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u101	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ...revolution in democracy, and that's where the socialists have been leaving our mark for decades. Nothing more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u102	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Greater, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u103	The President of the legislature, the President, the President, the president, the parliamentary, and the dear guests. Mr. Estarrona, I must confess to you today that I'm glad to meet you here today because we're working on a new state of euscal artists. And then I would like to say, like you, that I miss a state of artists, where we work in culture, e, musicians, theatres, dancers, techniques, careers, versers, writers, and all of us will be able to work with greater dignity and assurance. The same term state, perhaps, has been categoryed, and in one way or another, with a set of rules or measures, something for the common good (... .). In fact, I'm going to start over and over and over again while she was playing a damned fool. You offered courage to the chief physician, and he said, "Look how brave we are, that we have penetrated so many of our subjects that we have no right to do so, and which we have set upon others as a purpose to do." You mentioned how much culture is. It's a lot of things, it's very nice. It's worth meeting, it's personality, it's also good to strengthen critical character. And it also offers us wealth. All the cultural policies that this fun is working on are meant to reinforce them all. It is one of the most important commitments in this legislation, and thus it is recorded in commitment to $112. On the other hand, I agree that you, too, will agree, some of the principal characteristics of our culture mentioned by the chief physician are talent and quality. As these are so, the chances of formation and the aids of creation are public politicians in this system sound and stable. And many help. If you go to the searcher, you will find 646. and one cannot be denied-that is to say, the founder of the culture, authors, and professionals, in order to consider the peculiarities they have for their own activity, and to give proper answers to them. This subject requires special attention, and it is essential to insert this uneasiness into the nice cultures of the institutions. That's what it's all about. In the preceding law, and to-day, exemplary behavior is being identified by the influence which it may have on the system of culture. And all this began as an important subject in HAKOB, and the Cultural Department led the subject of the activity of the culturers into the forum of the organizational coordination. Why? Because agreement and co-ordination are absolutely necessary. And not only that, but even the progress of the state must be co-ordinated, and the subject is at the factory table. And in this regard, the position and work carried out by our parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies has also been very important in approving that report, which was also mentioned by parliamentarian Alonso in 2018. The head physician of the Zupiria said that this report of 2018 contains in three major sections the sizes that can be taken: the tax system, work protection, social security and financial intercourse. This report, it is true, opened a window of hope for the sector, and also for public institutions, because a suitable basis was agreed and settled on the way to get the object mentioned. And this document has since been regarded as a basis for the improvement of the activity and rights of artists, creators, and culture workers. Since the 2018th time the Spanish Government has proposed different decisions by decree of kings who have voted and approved in Congress. Those Decrees have been protected by the EAJ and the Socialist Party that supports the government. The first was admitted to December 2018, and was the one on top of their artistic and visible creations. These measures were brought here by the Alduds in the Euscal Autonomy Eremia, who were admitted to the grand councils by the rules of the forum and by the 1st of January 2019. There were two changes in general, the recovery of a smaller VAT one, and the acquisition of an income on the part of physical persons, two of which had a profit produced in artistic activities. All these decisions therefore proceed from the leading lines fixed in the document 2018, and the chief physician said so. Of these three parts it belongs to the government of the Spanish Common-wealth, and the third, which belongs to the Court of the Common-wealth, is that of our autonomy, which is the Authority of the Common-wealth, and of the Supreme Court. In this sense, there is a strong commitment in the Cultural Department to promote the cooperation of institutions in the prosecution area. He's trying to find the peace between 'Mupon' and 'ally', so that the real creative measures that you want to push may be effective, and that we can promote the persistence of the culture of our country. It's a complex issue, and... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... that they may be effective, and that we may encourage the permanent creation of our country. The subject is extremely complex, and, in regard to the organisational architecture, it is necessary first to procure this continental association of institutions. What's he doing? Specifically, the Cultural Department? On the one hand these reports have been made to bring the light, and put it into the hands of all the institutions: In the hands of the Spanish Government, they have come to this legislature, and are also in the hands of the malcontents. In September 2020, a lawyer's office was asked to see what margins are for work and improvement. They've also been in contact with the tax management, and they've tried to check it out. In the same way, of course, with the Blues and the OCT, Organo de Coordinción, Tributari. They've put it on the theme list and the riots agree if it's will. This phase of examination has gone on in agreement, and they all agree that it must be reviewed and adapted for creative artists or workers of culture. And this agreement is stated not only in the Hakoban, but also in the Esucaian Cega coordinate organ. The next step is to define the changes which ought to be established on the tax-side, the Gipuzian, and Biscaia. Diagnosian, diagnosian jakingo dozu intermittentzia eta diru-sarreren irregulartasune agerian daudela. Nola egin aurre adibidez fiskalitian egin beharreko aldaketei? Let's say they open up the possibilities. One, make use of existing techniques making use of the reduced integration percentage, or another that can be very interesting, an extension of the percentage of performance. Hau yes, salbuetsi batzuetan zailak egiten zazkigun kopuru batzuk justifikatzea age integrated kopuru bat beasts. Hori ere Aldundien esku izango da, or new techniques of tax quota determination can also be made. And here we would be talking about mobile-based mediation or tax-type mediation. Nolanahi ere, gauza guzti hauek Aldundiek adotu eta lan egin behar dute. I'm just saying that he's working with people and others. Look ahead. He is not standing, and sooner or later he will come what he must. That is to say, more certainty, more dignity, and all the people in our sector have a proper rule or frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u104	Thank you, Mr. Müller. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u105	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, good noon to all. I'll be very brief. "What the soul does for its body is what the artist does for its people", this is a phrase of Gabriela Mistral. I am not much of a phrase the truth, I do not like it very much, but when a friend knew that she was going to bring this issue, she sent it to me, and in turn this phrase also reminded me that this Parliament has already declared culture as an essential good. There when we started the pandemic. This is it: culture is like bread, but instead of feeding our little bellies, what fills us is the spirit. On that occasion, as at present, the problem was the same: a group of cultural workers of a very diverse nature who among their particular workers cannot be treated in the same way as the rest of the workers. And as has already been said for almost all those who have intervened, historical labour claims have been reflected in the subcommission and the report it emanated from. Little by little it is true, we have been given a summary, steps have already been taken to translate the measures of that report into concrete measures and to provide those working in the field of culture with a dignified life. We are aware that the Statute was born through consensus, it was not through consensus. All the parties that we are here are voting in favour of this report, and also of the collaboration of several ministries but if I remember correctly, and soil (?), I think it's seven. And so it has to be because we are talking about an issue that affects all the extremes of culture. We can therefore look at the Statute from a wide range of perspectives, from the point of view of taxation, but also from the point of view of social security or education. And we understand that the initiative that the Euskal Herria Bildu Group has put forward in this case today, because it is necessary to have this measure of impetus, as well as to develop it in concrete measures, to the extent of our competences. But that is true, and we have missed the amendments that have been proposed, which will cover more areas than the purely fiscal one. The Statute regulates first and foremost a field of work for women workers in the fields of culture and the creative world, and provides decent working conditions for them. And we do not want to deny the importance and the essential importance of this fiscal vision. But we believe that workers' rights also need a more global view. And it is that if we look only at taxation, we will be leaving aside much of the demands that are being made from the collective itself: the fight against false autonomous rights, maternity rights, rights in image reproduction or any of the others. That is why our amendment, on the one hand, highlights the work being done by the Ministries and, in particular, in this case, by the Ministry of Labour, which has promised to replace the 1.895 decree, 1.885, as it has said before, by placing creators and cultural workers at the centre of the political agenda. And this part is already collected, the idea is that before the end of the year a new decree is presented. On the other hand, we have tabled an amendment which is a tool. I'm not going to say it's a simple tool, but we do think it's a tool that has to be very useful. And since we're talking about cultural workers, many cases we don't know how to... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... We believe that it is a tool that must be very useful. And since we're talking about cultural workers, many cases we don't know who we're talking about. And the most extreme example of this was that, during the pandemic, many workers were left out of aid because they were not considered cultural workers. That is why our amendment attempts to emphasize this vacuum when it comes to identifying and defining the cultural ecosystem, leaving aside the great definitions of culture that have been tried to give, or the definitions of artist, which also in the reports that come from the law firm devotes several pages to it. We believe that it is necessary to implement this tool, that of the artist census, leaving aside the definitions. We believe that this is a necessary first step, and then, with the knowledge it gives us, it is possible to establish the tax systems to which it applies or the aid systems that must be applied to them. And this is where I've already missed a doubt. If the report commissioned by the Government to the law firm also states that this tool is necessary, why do they not implement it already? Why don't you do it? We have already brought him to the debate on several occasions. We believe it is useful, we believe that the Government should make it its own. We are also very clear that this census must be carried out and must be carried out in cooperation and coordination with the sector. We believe that this will be a qualitative leap forward and respond to all the peculiarities of this cultural ecosystem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u106	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Passing on the answers, Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u107	Yes, briefly, because it's lunchtime. See, maximalist positions said Mr. Barrio. But the amendment was very brief. And, like I said, I think it was pretty lax what we asked the... That is, our proposal, let's go, what we asked the Government, which was to present, in coordination with the institutions and in collaboration with the sector, the Statute before the end of 2022. You said six months. We gave eight, (...). It is therefore impossible to maintain maximalist positions with the proposal we had brought here. That is why I said that I do not know what this lack of flexibility on the part of the Basque Government and the Department of Culture is and how it responds to when it comes to reaching an agreement. Because it's spoken here, Eta Mendizabal jaunak aipatu izan du, arau edo marko proprio beria izango dugula, baina es ke zuen emendakina... Eta Alonsorentzat was from mezu hau. In other words, it does not talk about the commitments made in 2018 or any other series of actions, but only about special tax measures. And that's the point. The rest of the issues - which I have tried to explain in the first intervention - have been left completely out. And that is why we believe that we do not know what is to be done, but that it is a step backwards; it is a step back on the commitments made by this Government and in the mouth of its adviser. Without further ado, I do not know whether the problem is that it is called the Statute, whether it has to be the social pact, such as the social pact for Basque immigration, which are a series of actions, of commitments acquired that are collected between many different actors, etc., with a commitment also by the Government itself, and also with the competences of other administrations and institutions in this country. But that is at the end of what we are talking about, that instead of the Basque Statute of the Artist - in attention and correspondence with what they have done in the State - it has to be called otherwise, so be it. But we can not only stick to talking about the tax framework and the changes in the external rules that have to be made in terms of taxation. Because, as I say, it goes way beyond that. The Department of Labour and Employment will have things to do, that of Ekonomia Garapena, that of Economic Development, also has policies to do from sections such as that of research and development as well, or, obviously, that of Culture. It is not just a question of taxation that we have been calling for so far. And the commitment that I believe was quite broad, and a fairly broad social and political consensus, which was to develop the Statute of the Artist and Professionals of Culture. I agree that this was the time. You, Mr. Alonso, have said this is a historic moment. And I don't know whether historical or not, but this is the time, because you in your previous defense, at the beginning of this course, about the Basque Artist Statute you said that once the normative bases at the national level will have to be adapted to a Basque Artist Statute, to the reality and specificity of our sector. You said that there are 38 of the 57 measures that have already been put in place and implemented. So, I think it's time and that's why we were bringing this in, in the spirit of continuing to build and moving forward in the compromise. And that's why we think it's a step back. And we are not at least in a position to approve today's resignation from the Basque Statute of the Artist in any way. And that is why I am announcing that we are withdrawing our initiative, so that it will not be voted on, and that the proposal that you are making does not come forward, not as a pick or as a loss of a parliamentary debate, which is what we least care about, but as a new opportunity for the Government to continue to speak, to continue to dialogue, and to adhere, above all, to the last commitment that this Government, the Government of Urkullu, had made at the last plenary meeting that we discussed the subject. And in this case there were words of the Servitarchs, and then because he himself had carried the matter away, and word by word was the commitment to this Government: "The government will state it as it does most of the other schemes, and as most of the laws are made. And they will bring it to this parliament and discuss it in a monopographic. So, if the rest of the teams want, there'll be that monographic, but the vote, the vote, the vote, we'll have that commitment. We're in different planets, but I'm, as it may be, allowed to say so from the government." And then, what I want to live here is to keep this engagement in words between the government teams and the EAJs, and so we will withdraw our present point so that we may not accept this retrogence or retroduction which we thus understand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u108	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Popular-Ciudados, Carmelo, he mustn't speak. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u109	Mahaiburu. No, very briefly. Very briefly, and in response almost... [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u110	Mahaiburu. No, very briefly. Very briefly, and in response almost exclusively to Mr Estarrona. For this MP, I speak in person, this isn't going to win or lose debates, is it? Of course, I consider that this has to be much more transcendental and it has to be much more important than that you go with better today... or any of us and us... with better or worse taste of mouth. I think this is a very important thing. And for that reason, too, I would like to thank you for the readiness of the agreement you have shown these days. It is true that in the end it has not been possible to reach it, but, well, there are also times when we have to measure the distance we have remained from each other, and I think that distance is salvable. And, for one last reflection, I have said it before, I said it in my previous speech, indeed, and I repeat it now. The impossibility of obtaining an artist's status as we would have liked, I am convinced that you, like me, were a closed corpus and a unique corpus. I do not know whether the debate should be, whether or not to be called Basque status of the artist, battery of measures, etc., etc., but I am convinced that, beyond that impossibility, what is true and what we have to try among all of us is to continue to push this issue because the bottom, the port we want to reach, must of course be by unanimity, or at least by a great support from this House. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Müller, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u112	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature. Hello again. Well, the chief physician told us about the complexity of the subject, and brought us homeworks, on one hand, because we had to determine the universe, as Kultural's Euskal observation reports said, who is the artist, the creator, or the culturer. In this respect, Fordalu has the capacity to decide which of these new rules should be applied and to which they should not be applied. I mean, what is a cult process or cult process, which will be taken as a cult activity, and consequently a new taxation to which this new prosecution is applied. As I have said before, the Cultural Department is doing an interintinental work on various subjects which are not his own, because he believes that the contribution of the new set of rules to the benefit of the indispensable sector. There are many ways open. For example, a decloration of this practice has been agreed with the organization for June, a mention of a code, this association on the axis of the euco, and, for example, what lies before the Ogsia in order to improve it: which must be the minimum sum of money, that we may work in dignity, and so on. I'll say it again. On the one hand, the multiplicity of the collective term of the artist which enters into it has been defined once in a decree, we have some peculiarities, and we have the margin to hold them up by means of the IAE and their captions. El Concierto Económite desamor IAE for his own a partir del tercer dígito, y es una portentidad para contemplar aquaellos que no statesban. You know, first of all, it's the world's company, second, professionals, third class, artists. But there's a collective that doesn't understand well, for instance, eculturists, writers, second captions... There's a world here that must be homogeneized, improved, and that's also the work of fun. Beraz, hurrengo urratsak zeintzuk izango dira. Work on the definition and listing of AEI at the legal level; take it to the Bureau of the Basque Finances; propose exemption from subsidies. In Euskadi it is allocated around 2 million in aid to creators and creators, and the aid reaches an average of EUR 5,000. Finally, tell me that everything he can do and do more, let's have a new state of stateizing or working frame, no doubt. All the doors are open, but the Euscal architecture must be respected, and respect must also be consistent; this is a necessary rule. It's true, we agree with the purpose, and, though the media isn't possible, he's working and time will give him the results. It's not a rehab. The Juridic reports announced that in the C.M.A. and this is the only place for co-ordination. So it's not a stateed state, it's not a question of a name on a state. And when you were drinking, you said that you had a bad idea: perimetrajea, "situtu" hitza, epeena... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Baina, prudiziz, eta gaur gaurkoz Jaurlaritza lanean dabilen neurriak kontutan hartuta, tokatzen dena da eskaini dugun erdibidekoa. It's bone urruti ez zeuden. Zuek esaten zenuten: "Presenting a statute or new equivalent regulatory framework for creators and creators". Eta, Jaurlaritzak, gaur gaurkoz, is working in a coordinated and collaborative manner with the sector to present a new tax framework for creators and creators of culture, taking into account the peculiarities of the sector and its activity. You've had weakness. I think... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Matters and cultures, I'm starting to say that brings us together. Well, I'm sure today she hasn't gotten us all together, but I'm sure, because we're in harmony with the goal, the courage, the work, the will and the energy, the result will be a few months later. Although you go back today, at the end of the road, we'll find each other at the end, and, funk, the Cultural Department will do his jobs properly and well, as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-05-12.u113	Thank you, Mr. Müller. Together Podemos-Nokerz, Mr. Angulo won't speak. So since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. The meeting ended at three o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-seven.
