ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Quiet, please. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "About making the Secretary of the City Council of the United Nations of the United Nations......" Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u1	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President. As the EuskoM was given to know on September 14, the United Nations confirmed that Bilbo Local accepted the nomination of the Secretary of Coalition. They are at the head of this coalition program for the development of the UU-Habitat and the development of the United Nations, and Amina Mohammed, who is now the principal secretary of the United Nations. According to our information, this residence will be permanently located in the Basque Historical Archives and the building in the Institute. Although the management of this nomination has lasted for the last year and a half, the President himself officially announced his nomination by the video conference on July 11th, New York High Level Policial Forum. The presentation of Euscala, the Ministry of Foreign Problems, and the Ministry of Social Rights and 2030 Aged Age, has been the fruit of a fertile process of cooperation between the City of Yonkers and the BBK Foundation. There is no doubt that this decision by the United Nations represents a recognition of the trajectory developed by the Basque institutions in the area of Agenda 203 and an impetus to their future projection. His commitment, Lehendakari, and that of his Government to the sustainable development goals was unequivocal, aligning and referenced from the outset his Government's plans and programmes with them; thus reaffirming the universal dimension of the SDGs. It is also a cornerstone of the partnership and co-governance model developed for this purpose between the Basque Government and the other institutions that have promoted the candidacy. We are aware that these are not good times for the 2030 Agenda and the sustainable development goals. Historical circumstances, rather than helping us, make progress difficult. At the same time, however, the seriousness of the problems highlights the urgency of their approach. Despite the obstacles and difficulties, it is necessary to continue to affirm the need to maintain the multi-level commitment to the fulfilment of its 17 objectives. The pandemic crisis has highlighted the seams and fragility of the current model of globalization. The war unleashed in Ukraine as a result of the Russian invasion and its impacts abound in such weaknesses. Thus, the 2030 Agenda reaffirms itself as the basic road map for transforming that global crisis by building a more just, inclusive, secure and sustainable globalization. From this perspective, the localization of commitments to the United Nations agenda is essential for moving towards sustainable development goals. Local and regional governments, as well as other local actors such as companies, civil society organizations, academic and research institutions, have the challenge of collaborating and committing to what the 2030 Agenda and its implementation represent to make it a reality. It gives the value of this action to the singularities of the place, which are essential to the cohesion of society, and to a number of multiple agents on Age 2030. It is essential that the local environments should be connected with the global, and that all the gradations of government should be co-ordinately adapted to the tolerable goals of development. Thus the growth of the green, inclosive, and permanent, which will place men in the centre, will be enabled to advance without leaving any one behind. All this, Mr. President, as far as business, business, and projects are concerned, what will be the result of opening up the secretary of the New Testament at the Local 2030? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u3	Ma'am of the Basque Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In the course of the same month, the United Nations institution has agreed to place the Secretaryship of the House of the Local 2030 Coalification and agree to our nomination. This establishment, as you say, will be settled at its place in the 'Estocian Aistorian AEstria's. At the beginning of next year, it will open after all the necessary structures have been completed. This establishment is the result of a long work of cooperation, begun in March 2021: The first phase... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... after having fulfilled all the necessary conditions. This establishment is the result of a long work of cooperation, begun in March 2021: In the first stage, with the Spanish Government and the United Nations, in the second, with the City of Bilbo, and the fruit of the work done with the BBK Foundation. The Secretary of Local 2030 Coalition will coordinate an office of the United Nations with the executive. The goal is to encourage 2030 Agenda's development in the world's region and municipal institutions. The United Nations Organization will push this purpose from the Basque House, for the rest of the world. The United Nations call in September 2019 for the decade of action is born of the finding of insufficient compliance with the commitments of the states to the 2030 Agenda. The consequences of the pandemic, first, and of the invasion of Ukraine, then, aggravate this diagnosis. At this time of crisis, locating sustainable development goals is a priority for the United Nations. From Euskadi we will work actively to ensure that the 2030 Local Secretariat best fulfils its objectives and functions to enhance the international dissemination of the United Nations commitment to sustainable development goals. The experience of international cooperation, inter-institutional cooperation, public-private collaboration and shared work with civil society has led to Euskadi Basque Country being elected to host this headquarters. The European Commission recognized Euskadi as a pioneer region in implementing sustainable development goals, mentioning the Basque Government as the first non-state government to present five years ago a voluntary annual follow-up report to the United Nations. The principal forms of the US Secretaryship of Local 2030 of the United Nations will be as follows: It's 2030th Agenda's process of localization, expanding, and international promotion, to promote conbergence and contributions from areas to areas, to continue on the way to achieve permanent development targets; and to speed up localization by moving resources through a network of Local 2030 operations. This establishment is built on Euscadin and this activity program will strengthen our commitment to the social, ecological, economic transformations involved in the agenda. We'll make that commitment spread to the nations and make it known. The opening of the new global headquarters of the United Nations Local Secretariat 2030 in Euskadi will take place in January next year, and will also project Basque commitment to the internationally sustainable development goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask, the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina Irina, the President of the Union, the duties of our self-governage as a people." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. You proposed five towns a week ago in the plune of general policy, and then, as I told you, there was a special concern in the situation in which we live in the planning of the new state, not of any compact of the people, but of all the consequences of it; knowing that we have established a few principles and principles in the whole majority in this parliament, and that it is an agreement. That's why I want to ask you again today whether the president thinks it's better to fill up the state of Guernica to satisfy the requirements of this town's autogotration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u7	Thank you. Good morning, Mrs. Iriart. It's our intention to penetrate the automatically, to update and to expand. This aim has been taken up in the special employments of this legislature in the terms or periods of law; and it is proper for the members of the legislature to propose steps and calendars. In the meantime, it's our responsibility, and it's in our program to get the state of Guernica to complete it completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u9	Mr. Urkullu, good morning again. This debate is central, and you have to make it very clear to know what the fuel is made for your planning. To decide the salary of public workmen is in the middle of the day, how many teachers we need, how many doctors we need, our own minimum pay, and that's in the budget, or the possibility of limiting the housing farms' rentage is also recorded. How do we get to the energy pact? How shall we make this people's pact with all the privations we have now? And I can continue to make a long list, Mr. Urkullu, because we have no right to decide on all those subjects which are indispensable to govern ourselves. And you make a mistake about the things that are now to be answered by your plan. And you're also making room for a basic right as well as for a right to decide. And you haven't kept your word in 2015. No ha cumplicdo con la palbra dada in 2015. And by what law did you not keep your word? And renounce that which you have repeated so many times: the recognized self-government and the necessary self-government. Because, right now, ematen diguzun ortzi-muga oso konkretua da, oso morritza da. And it is essential to overcome the current dependence to respond to the health, economic, social and energy measures that we have in this part of the country. Alderdi egunean entzun nizun: "Address new challenges from action". New challenges with the same tool 43 years ago? And in the meantime, we're talking again about a new delay in the transfer schedule, which is already, not, that's back on track again. And so one year, and another year, and another year. Transfers mortgaged by an autonomous framework repeatedly laminated or questioned, both by the central executives and by that arbitrator who is the Constitutional Court, became gendarme of the most... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... or questioned, both by the central executives and by that arbitrator who is the Constitutional Court, became gendarme of the most reactionary sectors of the Spanish State. And when I asked you systematically about this, like today, you put the ball on the roof of the legislature. The law has an agreement. All of us who participated in this arrangement left something behind. But we have a deal. Because its bilateral status, foreign nation, confederal state, sovereignty prior to the 1839s - which, by the way, I have always attended to and watched very carefully - what were they? Were they distraction maneuvers, Mr. Urkullu? Eta ha diot ez duzulako bat bakarra was guaranteed. All these proposals have been left in the water of drunkards. Y volvemos a la casilla de salida. To fill the state of Guernica is your inspiration. Not only this, but an inspirational horizon to this people, which we have learned what needs are, and that the majority of this people chooses another state. And it's no good to say that the debate should be opened in Madrid, you spread it, you didn't open it, you didn't open it. We'll have to discuss that. And the question is: And what do we take to Madrid? What's going on with Madrid? It is necessary for this people to have independent instruments, and you know that to protect people, to answer the hinges, and to determine them freely. And to get freedom, too. That too, Mr. Urkullu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u11	Thank you. We are to interpret the wants and demands of our society in every historic context. At this moment the concerns of society are determined by the consequences of exceptional crisis, which you have mentioned, and which I have repeated several times. Self-governance osatzea, Iriarte andrea, ezinbesteko urratsa da, bathe ez da azken urratsa. Getting recognized self-government is an indispensable step, but in order to update, update, and adapt it is not the last step. In fact, the single additional provision of the Statute of Gernika states that its acceptance does not imply a waiver by the Basque people of the rights which, as such, could have corresponded to it by virtue of its history, and that they may be updated in accordance with what is laid down in the legal order, Mrs Iriarte. We have not given up our ability to decide on the updating of our framework of relations with the State. It's in our hands, Mrs. Iriarte. I do not give up anything that as a lehendakari I have raised with regard to self-government in this parliamentary forum to date: historical rights, foral nation, the uniqueness of Basque self-government, confederal relationship model, clarity directive or political concert. I have proposed democratic models and ways to move forward in the resolution of political conflicts. We can't stop. We must continue to move forward with the greatest degree of agreement, Mrs. Iriart. It looks like you've understood this well in Madrid, the Nafarro, or the North. I'm sure it's a responsibility to run the government program, including the goal to get more and better self-portraits. This is the way it was recorded in our program: to increase the legislation of the self-regation, the defence of the self-organized self-organization, the self-portrait, the economic self-organization, and the development of financial development, or the unreferred self-organization. Our responsibility is to guarantee the self-portraits that you've confessed, and keep going on that line in order to fill up the state of Guernica's entire. We must go on, and we have a firm foundation: historical rights, self-generacy pattern and individuality. The key concept in a vision for the future in this Europe, Mrs Iriarte, is the development of our self-government managed from shared sovereignty. Basque historical rights, respected and protected by the Constitution, and the procedures of the Economic Concert are the core of the reality of shared sovereignty that could be formulated, for example, in the political concert. The reform of the Statute should be a genuine renewal and strengthening of its agreed nature. And there is no pact without a reciprocal system of guarantees. The updating of historical rights should include a mechanism that obliges political and legal action under a bilaterality and conciliation scheme. On the other hand, decide. To decide in an interdependent complex world like the contemporary is always to co-decide. And any co-decision involves recognition, responsibilities and mutual demands for those who share it from the beginning of reality. The great challenge, Mrs Iriarte, is to try to achieve among ourselves, among us the Basques, a solid consensus on a great project of self-government that is viable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Ekain Rico, the USEsquilist members of the team of the Second Vice Presidents and the Chief of Staff and Eplegus, the balance of the Department of Parliament in the middle of the legislature." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors and counselors, Mrs. Vicelehendakari. We find ourselves in something more of the equator of a legislature that is being complicated. It was initially marked by the challenges of the pandemic and joined by the challenges of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. But this was going to be complicated, we socialists already knew. And that's why we decided to face up and enter the government, and also bring our party's premises to all points of that government agreement to focus its action on what really matters to Basque citizens, which is the economic and labor recovery of Euskadi, and not leaving anyone behind. Not in creating new problems with identity obsessions, which it seems others still have as we have just seen. What a great success it was to have turned the government away from these debates! You, Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, know very well that the Basque Socialists, whenever we can, believe in political usefulness and from the institutions we try to bring solutions to the citizens. And we do so by defending our principles and our electoral agenda, but at the same time we also have the hand to try to reach agreements. And with that conviction, Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, two years ago you came to this Parliament and committed yourself to a decalogue in which you talked about quality employment, Lanbide transformation, innovation, stability and deepening in equality. And that's what the Basque socialists are doing in a government of... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... employment of quality, of Lanbide transformation, of innovation, of stability and of deepening in equality. And that is what the Basque Socialists are doing in a coalition government that is knowing and has been able to respond to these difficult situations, knowing that these challenges have a clear global component, but that does not prevent us from making decisions here, in our home, locally. The truth, Mrs Vicelehendakari, is that despite many agrarians, despite those who called us unrealistic, with all these difficulties we have been able to achieve, for example, a historical record in affiliation in June with 987,000 people working. There have never been more people in Euskadi working and with rights. And with these latest data, in Euskadi we have 32,700 fewer people in unemployment than when we started, and 30,700 more affiliated people. But there are also 11,000 young people less unemployed. There are also 14,500 fewer women unemployed. We also have 7,000 over 45 years old who have abandoned those lists. And to all this comes a reduction of the wage gap by 4.7 points, and of course an increase in indefinite contracts, which, for example, with August last year is 230%. Out of the blue, because you know the socialists don't settle. But these are not opinions, they are facts and they are data, and with these facts and with these data, but also with all the challenges that we have ahead, is why we ask you and want to know your balance sheet of what we have in the legislature and what we have left. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u15	Good day to all of you, Presidents, chiefs of departments, members of the legislature. Thank you, Mr. Rico, for your question. This week, as you know, we've presented V plan to socialize. Thus, two years later, the Department ended in the first half of the legislation the definition of all the strategic projects engaged in the program, because this plan is the close of a circle connected with everything else. We do not content ourselves with obtaining historical maxims in stability and employment. We don't even like to discuss a new system to guarantee incomes, or to strengthen the table for Socier, and keep the door open to all the operating societies. We have fixed a pattern of absolute inclution, a network for the security and recovery of persons, for all the uncertainty we have to-day and before us. That was the commitment I made two years ago right here. That day, against all auguries, unemployment began to fall on a path that has solidly allowed us to reach this equator with the lowest unemployment rate in 13 years and with the highest historical record of social security membership that we reached last June. Next week we will know new data surrounded by uncertainties and threats, but no one should forget that we have achieved this with the greatest public impulse in our history, with agreements between governments and social actors, and with a very special one: that of labour reform. The public, solidarity and cooperation were the keys to getting out of the pandemic crisis, and they must be the keys to navigating in these times where there are so many threats to our well-being and continue the transformation that we are consolidating, because at this time we have also introduced numerous innovative programs, as they are tested in the most advanced countries and which are bearing fruit to rescue women, young people and workers from businesses in crisis. But we have agreed in this Parliament on the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, the first Interdepartmental Social Economy Plan, the Basque Occupational Health and Safety Strategy, the Strategic Employment Plan 2024, the first Labour Inspectorate Management Plan, and now the Inclusion Plan. We have consolidated the Social Dialogue Bureau as an ordinary forum to agree on socio-occupational policies, and we have held several days on equal pay and work and the first wage gap congress. As you know, the draft reform of the income guarantee and inclusion system is here in Parliament, and you already know the articulated text of the new Basque employment law. In addition, you know that we are transforming Lanbide into your organization and with innovative projects, which are an advance of the new Lanbide that we are building. In addition, we have managed not only to transfer the minimum vital income, but to integrate it into our system and get that unique window that was also an express commitment of mine. Those who work in Lanbide have been involved in all of this, and I want to thank you again for making this public service a truly effective tool. And I hope that this Parliament's involvement in completing a process whatever the threats we face, we must not abandon, because that will depend on the Euskadi of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the hatred of Mi, which was made by the members of the Society to the President by the reduction of the power of bribes." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u17	Thank you, ma'am, good day to you all. Good morning, President. Well, Euskadin, too, has gone up inflation, shot, and this inflation has caused all of us. At most, the capacity for buying has diminished us, and the lower the income, the more pernicious is this effect, the more difficult it is for some to satisfy their fundamental wants. For some few, it has been discovered by this inflation as well as by dissecting its gains. Inflation therefore with different effects. By this means, what is the plan of the Government, what will this government do before the reduction of the purchase power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am, I think we're all aware of the measures on July 28, which we advertised, together with fun and buzzards, and even last week... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... I think we're all aware of the measurements I'd made on July 28, together with the hiccoughs, and the eight measures I'd told you last week's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u21	Well, yes, I say, Mr. President, you know that the labourers are suffering a disproportionate burden from this town. And besides, the consequence of this change with the Popular Party has been increased by the prosecution. And, further, if this were small, it is true that if we listen to the times of crisis and to what you have foretold, we see that when we speak of the departure of the tax-generals, these reliefs are made in the same manner for all alike. The question is why they deflate the same to people who charge 100,000 euros and who live comfortably even in an inflation situation at this juncture as to those who, speaking in silver, are with water around their necks. Does a multi-owner really deserve the same treatment in the face of inflation as those people who 100-200 euros a month assume or cannot afford to pay the rent? Can't you touch the interests of the richest a little more? Because, really, this government is like a Robin Hood, but a little bit like the other way around; that is, it is about catching those who have less to favor those who have more. It is an equitable measure of general deflation, but it is profoundly unequal, because the system to which it belongs is profoundly unequal. It was announced, it is true, a package of 400 million. By the way, with what revenue you are going to finance, because, as it turns out, part of that funding comes precisely from what is being collected from the extra tax on oligopoly and banking that you had so much resisted. And it is not the only measure being promoted by the Government of the State in the field of fiscal justice. Yesterday, we were told that an agreement has been reached within the coalition government, which is going to create a tax on the big fortunes, for the assets of more than three million euros, the corporation tax is going to be changed, the IRPF is going to be increased to the incomes of more than 200,000 euros, and profits are going to be put in this tax also for the lower incomes. Well, these measures have already been opposed by Mr Feijoo, Mrs Ayuso and also Mr Garamendi, President of the employer. We do not know what this Government thinks about this. The President of Navarre, who also has fiscal competence, has said that we must make an effort on this occasion to those who have the most. What we want to know is whether this Government agrees too. What we want to know is, in this regard, how the Basque Government will use self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hooli, once in a while, it's a social priority. Our budgets are social, and from 4 euros already we're conducting them to three essential public services. We are constantly and closely following the situation we live in on this foundation by proposing measures and making them work. We have increased the budget of equality, Justice, and the Police Department of Society, from the last 461 million to 538 million this year. We have accepted the fund of rescue society and the fund for economic rescue with 200 million dollars. We've increased the support for the emergency societies which the corporations run until 45 million. We've increased the amount to 1,500 euros a year to help you help us work on these helps. We've taken the right to the minimum income in our power to secure revenues by putting them into our system. We've agreed to a new program strengthening the last network. We have defended 5,5% of the rent of physical beings, which allows all families to have more money in their pockets. Yeah, but I also repeated this conversation last week, when we accepted the reduction of − 200 euros in all the advances between 30,000 euros, we took the measures to ease the loss of the average classes and the economy of the purchase of those who are working with them, and we'll continue to take it. Mrs. Gorrotxategi, I don't know if we're in the world backwards. We have taken measures and are proposing new measures: reducing the cost of supplies to the social housing stock for communities with centralized facilities, increasing the income limit to facilitate access to social housing, aid to the food sector to mitigate the impact of inflation, aid for energy efficiency to compensate for the rise of the bill and to promote energy savings for families. Doesn't this have anything to do with what you were asking? Proposal for a new deflating of the IRPF so that families have more money in their pockets, an increase of 10% in social emergency aid to reach 50 million euros. You have spoken of the risk of poverty in the Basque Country, but you do not say that here it is 13% and the average in Europe is 22%. For not referring to any other context. Look, we're still adopting measures. This week we reinforced aid to producers and producers in the first sector by EUR 18 million, and approved the extension of the Denda Bond to encourage local trade. And we will continue to take action because we know social needs and we are a solvent country. You asked where we're going to get the resources. The general policy debate was also explained. He also referred to taxation. Precisely to us, in Euskadi, when we still have here a claim by other people and communities regarding the property tax. Look, we will maintain this social priority in the next year's budget proposal, which, I repeat, we will raise as a country agreement. I hope... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Look, we will maintain this social priority in the next year's budget proposal, which, I repeat, we will raise as a country agreement. I hope that we can discuss with you, negotiate, and in your case, agree whether you have the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscals, a member of the Ciudadans, made to the president for taxing the Basque People. " My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u25	Chief of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, to a good day. After hearing this this morning, I will tell you that the Basques do not need to enter into ruptures and labyrinth without exit, like that new status, which they asked about some of their models to which the lehendakari aspires and today has also remembered in this rostrum. The new status would be division, chrispation, would not relieve the tax pressure of families. And instead, lowering taxes as we proposed from our group, it would. Therefore, in this question I am talking about lowering taxes on Basques. I raised it in the general political debate, as I have said since the beginning of this investiture. And again, your answer has been negative. With our insistence we have managed to at least deflate the IRPF with droplets, that is, to compensate somewhat for the outgrowth of inflation. But what we demand, we demand the Basques of their government and of the outlaws is a reduction of the fiscal pressure, lehendakari; that is, a reduction of taxes. We have an instrument as great as the economic concert. However, in view of the gravity of the situation facing families, self-employed people and businesses here in the Basque Country, you have opted for passivity, for doing nothing, as the collection grows and grows, and the remnants accumulate in the arks of the estate. That's over $2 billion a day. I'll make it clear to you. The concert is not to fill the box of our estates and that the counselor sleeps happy dreams, is to take the dream away from the entire government, bringing tranquility to families and to society as a whole. It is an instrument that you have underutilized. Last Thursday he refused to round up any tax reduction commitment. Before yesterday, the councillor repeated it. But others are doing it or announcing it, with fewer skills and fewer instruments. Madrid, Andalusia, Castile and León, Galicia, the Valencian Community, with all the socialist governments behind, as in Extremadura, in cascade. Everyone lowers or announces a reduction in the IRPF, as well as property or estates, easing fiscal pressure. But you or you are staying the last of the line, the tail of the platoon. And even Mr. Sánchez appears, appears to advance them. His partner Mr Sánchez, who has re-activated the dark side of centralisation and harmonisation, these issues. I mean, the tax hike, no matter how much you say it's down, that's the reality of your policy. The response of the Basque Government has not been as forceful as it is to be demanded, far less forceful than that of Mr Puig himself in Valencia. The key issue, therefore, remains to be addressed. You just over 70% of the out-of-pocket collection, and can, along with out-of-pocket deputies, ease the burden of the crisis, inflation and fiscal pressure. It can and must do so, do not tell us the canteen of good management, the differentiated way and those things, because the Basques are living the crisis, like the rest of the Spaniards, without differential fact. And the question therefore is, when does lehendakari, when, when, when do you propose to push down taxes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, sir. In your question, you make a statement that is not true. I mean, you say nothing was done, and that's not true. One. It's only four years ago that we accepted a high-level tax reform, Mr. Iturgaz, and your party agreed to that reform that's already established, and it's giving good results. And we've decided to lighten up both families, autonomists, and corporations. Mr Iturgaiz, in view of the situation we are experiencing, we have taken measures within the framework of our economic concert. That's our model, Mr. Iturgaiz. What are you afraid of, in a new status with the cornerstone that is the economic concert, as well as reference for a political concert? And I remind you that we take a unilateral risk, because we depend on our ability to generate resources. It is very good to propose the reduction of taxes in all the autonomous communities of the Spanish State and to demand from the Spanish Government whatever it is, the coverage of all public services in all the autonomous communities with funding. We do not depend on the funding of the Spanish Government, Mr Iturgaiz. We have taken effective measures for families, self-employed people and businesses. And in January, according to the foreign parliaments, we approved the deflation of 1.5% of the personal income tax. We agreed to bring the new taxes into line with the state, and yesterday we agreed with the Spanish Government a deficit of 0.6 % for the Basque Government and 0.1 % for the outlaws for the 2023 financial year. In July we agreed to deflate the IRPF tariff by an additional 4%, apply a reduction of the quota of 200 euros to all declarations less than 30,000 euros, as well as a progressive reduction to declarations between 30,000 and 35,000 euros. Is this the model of Valencia? We agree to the exemption of public aid of EUR 200, the exemption from the presentation of the fractional payments of the third and fourth quarter of 2022 for the autonomous persons, or the exemption from the presentation of the fractional payment for companies with a volume of operations of less than 50 million. Mr Iturgaiz, we have taken fiscal relief measures with positive discrimination for the most vulnerable, and we will continue to do so. Last week we put forward eight new measures. They include a new deflator that would enter into force on 1 January to mitigate the effects of underlying inflation on all families. We have a consensual, progressive, effective and successful tax system. And in fiscal matters, it is advisable to maintain a path of stability and prudence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u29	Good morning again, President. Last Thursday, −zu will remember that on this − tribe, you said you wanted to make another defense... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u30	Good morning again, President. Last Thursday, −zu will remember that on this − tribe you said you wanted to make another defense. That's why we'd like to know when and when. That's why I ask a question to find out how long such a thing will happen and how much it will be. I believe that in addition to asking when and how much, because you in this rostrum announced it, and I think it is necessary since you made a first deflatation and if we are talking about a second deflatation it would also be good if Basque citizens had in mind what measures your Government will take in this regard. But when I tell you that we want to use the concert to lower taxes it is to help families, businesses and self-employed to reach the end of the month and reactivate economic activity, lehendakari. That's why we need that descent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u31	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know whether they were at the entire week's meeting or not when I spoke of this, but I think I meant to say that next fortnight the Basque Financial Council will be in the Euskal Raisan Ways, and that's why the Aldus will be there and we'll have to agree to the measure of the defense. I repeat, "Reto caso −, the Popular party has protected reform, and we promised to evacuate the results, and we'll do it again at the moment when the economic situation is stabled in general." We've shared the results and agreed to apply new measures to the priorities, to guarantee the stability of public services, and to continue helping us to improve economic activity and work. Mr Iturgaiz, I believe it is important to make a comparative analysis of all the measures being taken by the Autonomous Communities, whether there is homogeneity also to the extent that it is adopting the communities led by the People's Party, whether there is uniformity or not. In any case, I am also left with the widely recognized impression that in Euskadi we have been the autonomous community that we have made the greatest fiscal relief in the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Ask the question, Amaia Martína Mistya, a member of the Vox team, was made to ask the president for the training module in the auto school professors' training module. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u34	Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. We recently knew that the Basque Government, through the Department of Education, implemented a formative module in order to obtain the qualification of a teacher of self-school exclusively in Basque. This unprecedented situation implies discrimination and a linguistic veto for all those who do not dominate the Basque country, and who are also a majority in this territory. Discrimination and a veto that must be repealed. And that is why we ask you, Mr Lehendakari, the following question: does the Basque Government intend to rectify this decision and impart the learning module required to be a teacher of self-school also in Spanish, with the sole aim of guaranteeing the linguistic rights of all Basques?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Egun on, Martinez andrea. You intend to turn what is an advance into a setback. See, the Directorate-General for Traffic regularly calls for courses to obtain the certificate of qualification of road training teacher. On 24 March 2021, Royal Decree 174/2021 was published in the State Official Gazette, establishing the title of Senior Training Technician for Safe and Sustainable Mobility. This is the first time that Vocational Training has been able to offer this education throughout the State. And in Euskadi this same course we are going to offer this higher education cycle, and this I think in itself is already an advance. And this first course, yes, will be in Basque. And the Department of Education will examine the possibility of offering it also in Spanish from next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u38	Mr. Lehendakari, your answer was to wait. He tells us it's only going to be in Basque, and we'll see if he's in Spanish soon. In recent times, as has already been customary in linguistic matters, a flight forward on its part. With this matter, it is also going beyond all established limits. In fact, we have a judicial record that they do, but we are afraid that this measure is only the principle of a model that is going to represent a calvary for the Spanish-speaking people through an unprecedented imposition of the Basque in all the orders of life. Those in charge of the self-schools have already shouted in the sky with the measure of their Government, they do not find teachers with the necessary training to teach the courses, and many of the students are quitting because they do not have sufficient knowledge in Basque. Already since 2010 with the plan Gidabaimena euskaraz, promoted by many municipalities and supported by the Basque Government, which made through a sort of subsidies buy the use of euskera among the young people who wanted to take out the driver's license, among others, those under 23 years old who took the theoretical exam in euskera 100 euros of gratification, were added to this prize 100 euros more to fill the fuel tank of their cars, ten prizes of 400 euros will be drawn for the theoretical training to come out for free. They even offered a trip to Europe for four people for doing the euskera exam. Come on, you guys looked like the little tomboy. But after a decade of pushing this plan - to the displeasure of your Government - citizens have not bought it, Mr. lehendakari. And he did not buy it because according to the yearbook of the General Directorate of Traffic, only 370 students of more than 20,800 opted for the card in Basque. They decided to take the theoretical exam in Basque only 1.7% of the total. See if... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... chose the Basque card, decided to take the theoretical exam in Basque; only 1.7% of the total. See if they cared little about the road safety that in the first instance they even forgot to require a driver's license to be self-school teachers. It's a good thing that some of your many advisors corrected the ruling and on the final basis they did include the requirement to have the B and A2 card. This makes it very clear that they only care about the Basque. And since you have not achieved your goal, Mr Urkullu, what will be the next thing, that in the self-schools only classes are given in Basque so that you can get your driver's license? How far are you willing to go with your sick obsession with imposing euskera? Far from amending their strategy in an exercise of political pride, they have begun a process of linguistic imposition that involves a declaration of hostility to the Castilian. They want to catalyse the Basque Country with a model that seeks to impose euskera in an invasive and, above all, exclusionary way; euskera at the service of exclusion. Mr Lehendakari, your language model has been a failure, and it has been because imposition never defeats freedom. And because they cannot impose realities contrary to the will of the citizens. His linguistic crusade will never duplicate a citizen reality that shows itself to be clumsy and rebellious in the face of its impositions. Correct, Mr Urkullu, because weak favors do their linguistic policies to the Basques and, above all, to the Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u39	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martinez, let's see if we can put it in your proper context. I would like to reiterate that the Directorate-General for Traffic regularly calls for courses to obtain the certificate of qualification of a teacher of road training, and that we are talking about that on 24 March 2021 the Royal Decree 174/2021 was published in the Official Gazette of the State, establishing the title of Senior Technician in Training for Safe and Sustainable Mobility. Look, after 40 years in which these have not been taught in Basque, we have considered an advance; we have a base of future professionals trained to teach in Basque, in the same way as it is in Spanish, Mrs Martínez. In this way, anyone who wishes will be able to receive classes in Basque by a teacher who has been properly trained to do so. And this is a breakthrough. In any case, whoever prefers to take the Spanish exam will be able to continue doing so, as has been the case, Mrs Martínez. And I assure you that there is demand for training in Basque for this higher degree. And this is a breakthrough. As I assure you there is labor demand for those who get this title; they will have job opportunities in Basque and Spanish. And I think this is a breakthrough. We're not going back the way you intend. We will continue to advance in a bilingual society. You say that only 370 students have been able to take the exam in Basque. Sure, sure. And 40 years ago they were zero students. It would be more when you meet a trained and capable teacher also in Basque. And this is a breakthrough. In the same way that 40 years ago there were zero families who could choose model D education for their daughters and children. Today it's more than 80%. Forty years ago, zero students were able to study in Basque at the Public University; today they are more than 50%. Forty years ago, zero students were able to study vocational training in Basque; today they are more than 50%. 40 years ago, no one could teach or learn or take a driving test in Basque; today there are 370 people, who have the same rights as the rest. You want us to come back 40 years ago and the euskera to be zero again, Mrs. Martinez. In fact, you said in this Basque Parliament last Thursday: "any time past was better". As much as it weighs, we have made much progress over the past 40 years on the basis of consensus and respect for our two official languages, Mrs Martínez. We are making Basque an area of social consensus and not of party conflict. You intend to return to the past, but Basque society wants to continue to advance in a bilingual community. That's how we're doing it. And this, Mrs. Martinez, despite what you weigh, is a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "The Interition by the Congressmen of the Pazis Garcia Ortega EH Team to protect the wages of the workers of the Basque Autonomia Er member of the community in the Euscalic State." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. And, Mr President, good morning. We have recently made an entire meeting in general politics, and, Mr. President, I continued with great interest. And I went on with great interest, because I think it was a good time and time to know the influence of the great inflations and the increase of prices to the majority of the Basque society. The inflation of historical Maximes, the high increase of prices essential to consumption, as of food, energy, or dwelling, including the increase of the interest of the mortgages. The majority of the Basque society are of the most important concerns, and I'm sure the president knows it. Therefore, I repeat, I continued your discourse with great interest, because I expected the President to know which of the majority of the Basques is the answer to this proposal. And, yes, we heard your proposal, but I must tell you, Mr. President, you're still planning the same recipes. The new situation is to suggest that you follow the old recipes. In response to the demand from all the Basque unions for the need to protect and increase wages in order to cope with the price escalation, in the morning session, the lehendakari told us that his proposal is to promote, to the extent possible, an income pact at the state level. In the afternoon session, the lehendakari added that it should be an equitable pact in which costs should be shared among all the actors involved, an annual pact adapted to asymmetries, and ended up proposing the underlying CPI for wages. In other words, it proposes an income pact with the aim of sharing costs and being balanced, and... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... the underlying CPI for wages; i.e. it proposes an income pact with the objective of sharing costs and that it be balanced, and curiously only concrete as regards the wage share, and does so by proposing the underlying CPI, and doing so, in addition, within a state-level income pact. Mr Lehendakari, with your proposal the Basque framework for collective bargaining and the content of the negotiation itself is being slashed. It is clear that their lack of relations with trade union organizations with whom they talk little or nothing, and yes, on the contrary, continuing attendance at business events determines their way of looking at things. The President thinks it's the role of the Spanish Government to present a proposal which can be based on negotiation for economic and social agents. You mentioned in Spain that they're working on it and that it's applauding. And I want to ask you: When you talk about having a book on your own, what do you talk about? Is this proposal of your own diary? Is it your own agenda to leave the responsibility of your government in the hands of the state? I must tell you that this proposition is disappointing, because it does not account for the economic reality of the majority of the euscal payers, and a serious refusal of the support of the collective negotiations as much as possible. As I have said, your proposal is disappointing because, Mr Lehendakari, you forget two big issues that I think you made possible for you to make this proposal without blushing. The first is not to take into account the starting point with which the salaried majority of Basque society has to face, to face strong inflation and price escalation. And this starting point is not a zero point, which seems to be part of the lehendakari in making his proposal, the starting point today is defined by an unequal and unfair distribution of wealth. An unequal distribution of income that with war or without war, with crisis, with and without economic growth has grown in the last decade. Today we are still paying for the consequences of the labour reform of the PP, in which wage devaluation was one of its main objectives. See, according to statistical data from different institutions, the percentage of GDP spent on wage payments has been falling year after year in favour of capital income. I am concerned about what the Labour Relations Council has recently given us, and it is that in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa almost 70% of the employed population have their collective agreements unrenewed, and therefore have their wages frozen. No less worrying is the fact that 20% of persons receiving GIR are workers who have to supplement their low wages with this benefit. Look, this very week I participated in the day organized by the Department of Labour and Employment of your Government for the presentation of the fifth Basque Inclusion Plan. And in these days, Foessa's representative gave us the data that 113,000 households are at risk of poverty once the expenses of housing and supplies have been paid, leaving them with a salary in the month. The OCU has told us that we have seen the biggest price rise in 34 years, 15% of the 95% of the commodities that make up the shopping basket. And in view of this situation, you consider that the objective of the income pact you propose is – and I read it textually – "to avoid a feedback process in which everyone seeks to balance their purchasing power". No, Mr Lehendakari, here some seek to guarantee decent wages and avoid the impoverishment of a 10% CPI, and others seek to continue to accumulate wealth even in times of crisis. Amancio Ortega, owner, among others, of the Zara brand, has declared in the last year that he has considered bad 3 billion euros of profits. Do you really think that you can ask the female employees, the Zara workers, to share the sacrifice of inflation for their wages? Was it necessary to tell Mercedes' staff that the company's investment required a waiver of labour rights?, so does lehendakari understand the shared effort he speaks of in his proposal for an income pact?, so does he understand quality employment? Mr. President, leave the old prescriptions to interpose the responsibility of the Confebask and, starting from a collective negotiations in the Basque field, encourage the discussion of the true distribution of wealth, in order to guarantee the worthy conditions of the workers, and to guarantee that income is based on a social employment. On the other hand, it is absolutely necessary that the minimum salary of a profession worthy of a decent life should be established in the Basque field, in order to protect the people who have the lowest wages and to enable them to cut down the salary between women and men. For this year's budgets your Government has included, like the Government of Navarre, a commitment to promote, through collective bargaining in our area, an interprofessional minimum wage in response to the Basque socio-economic reality, where has this commitment remained, Mr Lehendakari? And the second great reason is that you deny the collective negotiational enclosure with your proposal. Considering that we have no right to regulate the essential elements of work in our community, collective negotiation is an important instrument. By a collective negotiation, by trade agreements, it is necessary to induce the present state of affairs from the autonomy of union agents and corporations to resist problems which cause great inflation. Mr. President, in this limited domain of our present jurisdiction, a collective negotiation is also a defense of self-governor. But this does not agree with your proposal that they are the union and corporations of our social reality. And that's why we're conducting an interpenetration to find out what the president's intention is to force agreements into the Euscalum of our relationships by means of a collective negotiation between unions and corporate organizations... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... by a collective negotiation of agreements between unions and corporate institutions, watching to protect workers' salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Garcia, good morning. You're talking about intentions, and I'll tell you about actions. You see, in the Euskal district of the World State of Guernica's 11 articles, the funniest ability is spreading to promote the job and to improve its quality. I'll remember some of the actions we put in your mouth. One social interview table. Since the creation of 2019, we've fortified, normalized, and system-based teams, with those who respect and partake of our organization's system. Two, work inspection. We raised the inspectors' plantil in ten squares. We've accepted the first plan of inspection of this public service. Three, the pay crack. We've managed to lower 22% of 18% during this legislation. The consequence of the new equality law is that we have to extend the plan of equality to all companies more than 50 workers. Four, 2030 strategy of the World. We've developed it with the operating communities and economics, and it's agreed with the legislature teams. Five, 2024 employment strategic plan. We've done the first evaluation and introduced it in the law. Six laws of employment. This year he will be transferred to the Parliament. A decade ago, it's the first law we've ever had since we got the jurisdiction of active jobs policies. Seven is a better profession. Reorganizing the profession, providing revenues to enable us to arrange a minimum income and a living income management. Eight, forming a network for employment innovation. The Gastial News Center and the Renteria and the Setaean sub-egories are in progress. Nine, to support special employment centres. Ten, to promote employment programs, to strengthen and reassign it. New jobs programmes. Twelve, job-requestable sectors. We've signed a protocol with Kluster to address jobs, prepare and counter-regation in new jobs nifs, special training program through the Botcamp program, program in the neighborhood to prepare and hire people with the greatest difficulty in getting access to the job market, or people who have the income to ensure revenues. So here's Mrs. Garcia, the kind of initiative that's been set up by the New Year. And with that, it's our commitment to continuing to promote the survival of our work relationships. To improve the work conditions, we'll continue to protect pay and create programs of quality employment. Mrs. Garcia, our attitude is proactive. From respect for the autonomy of the parties, we are at the disposal of business and trade union representation to facilitate collective bargaining. We respect that bilateral sphere and recognize the positive results it is having in the signing of sectoral and enterprise agreements over the course of this year with different solutions and signed by representative unions in some cases. And this is also important for consideration of the conditions of the income pact. We will continue to strengthen the tripartite area as a guarantee of the participation of economic and social actors in the promotion of public employment policies. Social dialogue table with the plenary of the working groups with which you participate in the social dialogue table, Mrs Garcia. Lanbide Board of Directors, with whom he participates on the Lanbide Board of Directors. General Council of Osalan, Labour Relations Council or Economic and Social Council in which, in this case, LAB has requested participation, for example. It makes no sense for certain trade unions to refuse to participate in these forums, but they do in State-level analogs. The attitude of the Basque Government will be to support and, if required, to encourage agreements between the parties. It is up to economic and social actors to agree on how efforts and benefits are shared in sectors or enterprises, as is being done in the agreements that have been signed. You refer to the mention I made in this Parliament of the state rent pact that the President of the Spanish Government announced in March at the Congress of Deputies. I have described this proposal as a laudable and desirable effort, although I do not hide the difficulty of the challenge. An income agreement within the framework of collective bargaining in the current situation is socially and economically desirable, and it is necessary for all actors to agree on fair and fair sharing of the benefits and losses caused by inflation. And the goal is to create a framework of stability and certainty to help minimize the inflationary spiral that occurs if agents act uncoordinated and seek their own benefit in the short term. Success implies having preconditions and, above all, the active participation of the real protagonists, i.e. trade union and business representatives. A possible reaction is that there are some basic conditions. And I mentioned three of them, and I mention them. One will be a deal. Runpoint numantine positions must be avoided in a process of agreement. Two, we're keeping the costs right. The bond of the Bali revenue demands a fair and balanced distribution of costs. A possible start point would be a plan that would consider underlying inflation as reference, and an opportunity to negotiate wages, and to reduce the margins of companies for three or four years. Three, the government's assistant role. The pay of officials who will be assigned in the General Presidency of the 2023 state, should be a model−, and indispensable, applied to all the − members of the world. And it must be remembered that Escal had been presented with an additional resource against the budgets of the state's pay for the increase of the state's pay... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... necessary. And it must be remembered that Escal had been presented by an appeal against budgets for the increase of the state's salary. Mrs García, the proposal for a law that the Spanish Government has put forward to charge, for example, an exceptional surcharge on the profits of energy companies and banking is a tool that will allow to raise additional tax revenues, and they have to be intended to compensate the companies and families most affected by the situation triggered by the war in Ukraine, and we are going to do so in Euskadi in implementation of the Economic Concert. We will allocate resources to lower-income families and businesses that have seen their margins shrink because they are unable to impact increases in raw materials and energy on their products and services. And this measure is in line with the European Commission's proposals to tax the extraordinary benefits of the sky and divide them among those with greater needs. Under the three assumptions, a possible state-level income pact would be desirable, and would be an important reference for Euskadi. In any case, whether or not a comprehensive pact is achieved, we in the Basque Country have the capacity and tools to complement and adapt collective bargaining to our own reality: we have a Basque framework of labour relations, we have tripartite negotiating instruments and forums, such as the social dialogue table. I insist, with those who respect and participate in these forums. We appeal to the need to consolidate these spaces, calling on trade unions that have decided not to use them to feel like dialogue, negotiation and consensus. It is the best way to strengthen our autonomous framework of labour relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u46	Good morning again, Mr. President. Mr Lehendakari, I think we are what we do more than what we say, and it is incompatible, or at least inconsistent, to make a defense or to say that we are in favour of the Basque framework of labour relations, which is at the disposal of the Basque unions, and to continue to suggest that the income pact has to be at state level, or at least, what you have said is that, first, the starting point is raised in the state, and the others while we are waiting. Mr. President, while you propose a state-wide treaty, we propose a peace in the Basque Country. To ensure the basic rights of the peace, to ensure the public safety, and to hope from despair, as it was the day before in Maddalen. In our community there are conditions of social equality and of sufficient wealth to ensure worthy conditions of life to all the people. In this compact of prosperity, which we propose, it is indispensable to redistribution of wealth. The other is between wages and capitals. I repeat, this demands a compromise, active and firm position of your government, to allow a diary to be held in our territory, as you say, by the euscal system, in order to promote the necessary agreements. You have to wait for what's going to happen in the state. The first is to fix the minimum wage between the social and economic reality of our territory, and that would be sufficient for your government to comply with the commitments received in the law of the ancients this year. Second, in front of the present blockade, the collective negotiation and the personal agreement of the country and encourage it to maintain the increase of wages. And in the same way, and I've said this before, and I mean again, because it's important, we have to guarantee that the company's competence is based on quality jobs. And the third must also be spoken of the division of the revenues of corporations. We need to discuss the distribution of the profits besides taxing them. In this economic situation, companies shouldn't divide the population. All the wealth which they create ought to take place in companies, and to consider the socially most reasonable distribution of these profits. As my colleague Maddalen Iriarte told him at the General Policy Plenary, given the current situation, doing nothing, or delegating his responsibility to the Government of Spain, is not an option. To appeal to Confebask's goodwill to cope with the impoverishment of the working majority is to respond with old schemes to new problems. And because doing nothing involves perpetuating, when not increasing, the present unjust distribution of wealth through wage devaluation. It means giving good cause to the veto that Confebask imposes today on collective bargaining, and the veto that imposes on the debate, which is essential to address, as is the sharing of wealth. And it means giving up within the framework of self-government an instrument such as the Basque collective bargaining. And, therefore, it also means giving up an agenda of its own to address solutions to the major problems raised. Mr. Lehendakari, exercise your leadership, speak to the unions, speak and call Confebask, because Confebask cannot have the key to our lives. Lead and promote in the Basque area the frameworks of debate, negotiation and agreement necessary to make it possible from the collective negotiation to respond to the social impoverishment to which the current socio-economic situation leads. Look, with the public employees she also now has an opportunity to assert our self-government and not to limit herself to a conformist and subordinate management of what the Government of Spain has decided, thus emptying the collective bargaining in the Basque public administrations. Finally, look, Mr. lehendakari, I'm going to dare to tell you that taking advantage of the fact that a few weeks ago we agreed on the law of sport, to be encouraged, to go out to the field to play the game as a Basque selection, and not to comply with sucking bench of the Spanish selection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The president... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... Basque selection and does not conform to sucking bench of the Spanish selection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. President, the word is yours to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garcia, I insist that inside the World State of Guernica's 10-year-old book there's all the ability to promote the job and to improve its quality. I have mentioned to you the one who lived in my first share of the public's sodality. With regard to the Income Pact, and indeed as you said in the first intervention, I believe, yes, there are at least three principles that should guide such a pact: a fair pact, in which costs should be shared among all the actors involved - I do not know what is not understood by this - it should be a pact adapted to the asymmetries of the impacts between workers, businesses and sectors - I do not know what is not understood by this - and it would be desirable for multiannual commitments to be made based on the less volatile component of inflation, i.e. the underlying infringement. The responsibility for reaching agreements lies with the business and trade union representatives in the Basque area, Mrs Garcia. That's how they do it in many cases. And you have to recognize that effort, I do. And from the Government, it is up to us to facilitate this negotiation by means of programmes and measures to help the most needy and to mitigate the negative effects of the widespread rise in prices. Ointed itin aipatzen zenoen. Our role is to compensate families with less income so that they do not lose purchasing power and viable companies with subsidized credits and guarantees so that they can overcome this cyclical situation caused by inflation and rising interest rates. And that's how we're doing it. And these measures also help to create the breeding ground for collective bargaining. 'Esunk' has shown that he's ready to help in the collective negotiation context to facilitate the agreement between the company's union and the company's syndicate. We're starting programs that help us recover economics and employment. Companions, autonomists, and people, especially the weakest ones, are conducting social support. And we are doing so with fiscal relief measures for individuals and families. And so we approved, I repeat, last July 28 with six measures, including deflation and direct aid of EUR 200 to the most needy people. We will continue to do so with the new Hitzartuz programme that I proposed last Thursday. And these programmes will have an impact of 650 million euros to alleviate the situation of families and small businesses. You're on ituna. It envisages measures to reduce the tax burden on businesses and families, especially the most disadvantaged. Also to increase social emergency aid, aid to the food sector or aid to encourage energy saving, promoting self-consumption and local energy communities. We continue with concern the consequences of sabotage of the Nord Stream pipeline. A sabotage that seeks to close the door to a negotiated and rapid solution that restores Europe's energy supply. And what is more serious, there is a clear intention to perpetuate the war situation and avoid a solution in the short to medium term. And we will follow closely the development of events. And we will remain ready to implement new measures that alleviate the difficulties of families and businesses. Mrs. Garcia, our goal is to continue working for the Basque collective negotiation. The representatives of the Basque companies and trade unions are for corporations and workers to negotiate and get a positive deal, their responsibility. It's time to share your efforts to face the solution of this new crisis together. And it's time to encourage collective negotiations. For that purpose, with the Council of Work Relations, or the Table of Society, Mrs Garcia. This, all this, is a responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Laura Garrido Knörr Euscal, the popular Group of Ciudadans, a member of the legislature made to the president about the delicate state of euscal public health." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, chief of departments, members of the legislature. It is clear, Mr Lehendakari, that the deterioration of Basque public health is a fact. That Basque public health, our Osakidetza, is no longer what it was is vox populi, is something that is constantly in the conversations, is on the street. And their loss of quality has become a problem for Basque citizenship. Problems in the attention. Some problems that have even become structural: The delicate situation of primary care. The lack of professionals. Lack of doctors, nurses. This summer we had medical clinics without a doctor, medicalized ambulances without a doctor. The mismanagement of the emergency service. The service falls; in one month it was a day down 20 minutes. Delay on ambulance arrivals. I have no reason to tell you, who will have had occasion to hear it, the testimony of Montse, whose husband died because the ambulance arrived 22 minutes late; it came from Mondragon because in Vitoria there was no ambulance living eight minutes from Txagorritxu. Service closure ads he was betting on a few years ago, even enhanced. Closing of the emergency department of Santiago, closing of the cardiac surgery service of Basurto. You're late on the surgical waiting lists. 23,800 patients waiting, 25% more than the average of the last decade. Failure to comply with the decree itself which sets that maximum time limit at six months. Delays in major prevention programmes. As is the Breast Cancer Prevention Programme, women born in 1970 have not yet been called for such a programme. I've set him up and we've set him up with some examples. We could put in a lot more. These are graphic examples of the situation of Basque public health and its deterioration. What are you planning to do, Mr. Lehendakari?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u52	Thank you... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ...we could put in a lot more. These are graphic examples of the situation of Basque public health and its deterioration. What are you planning to do, Mr. Lehendakari?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u53	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, good morning. My assessment is that the Government as a whole is making a great effort to maintain the level of public service in circumstances that we do not miss out on are very difficult. And we're not saving resources especially in public health. I repeat that the budget of the Department of Health over the past year, with an additional allocation of 237 million euros, and this year with an additional 168 million; the investments in the improvement of infrastructure and equipment of Osakidetza has increased by 37 million regarding last year; that public offers of employment are being called to guarantee the stability of 8,600 professionals, so we will substantially reduce the interinity. Health, Mrs Garrido, is a priority for the Basque Government, and this is reflected in the projects we present to the European funds, in the strategy of smart specialization RIS3, and in the destination of one in three euros from our budget to public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garric, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u56	Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. Well, I know that healing is a priority, but I think the facts sometimes don't go along. In view of the situation described, I sincerely believe, Mr Lehendakari, and I say this to you with all due respect, you cannot look elsewhere, you cannot throw balloons out. We must recognize the situation, identify where the problems are and propose solutions. And we believe that you can't go out in the woods announcing improvised measures, which denotes an absolute lack of foresight. Look, before the summer you announced - and had to rectify the few days - outpatient closures in the summer, and care for the nursing staff instead of the optional ones. This generated so much criticism on the part of users, trade unions, professionals and political parties that the advisor's announcement had to be rectified within hours. You at the same General Policy plenary announced the review of the Primary Care Strategy presented in 2019. It was announced, as I say, in the General Policy Plenary, as a novel measure. But this review is late, Mr. lehendakari. We have been calling from this group for a review of this strategy for many years, and we have incorporated it into our many initiatives. The announcement of this review is the tangible proof that they recognize their failure and that it has not worked. You pointed out that they are not sparing resources. I know. We are the autonomous community that we spend the most money per inhabitant on health care. That is why there are situations and problems that are not understood, which are not understood to be becoming structural. Look, we, in the next budgets, will put more money for health care. If you want more money for health care, you only have to look at the People's Party-Citizens bench. But we sincerely believe that the situation is very delicate, that it is urgent to take action, and that of course one must change course. And that is up to you, Lehendakari, as head of the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u57	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, I would like to see a comparative analysis carried out at European level, in the whole of the State, or the Autonomous Communities of the State, taking into account all the circumstances that are affecting us in recent years on the situation of public health in particular. Despite the difficulties, Euskadi is the most invested community in the Public Health Service, and the Federation of Public Health has recognized Basque Public Health as the best service in the whole State. Is it self-congratulation? No, no, It's a tickle to keep getting better, and that's how we're doing it. He referred to the summer. This summer, Osakidetza has hired all available optional professionals, all available optional staff. The level of care has been similar to that of pre-pandemic summers. It is a priority to reduce waiting lists, and our goal is to reposition them below 60 days, as in July 2019, before the pandemic. We have room for improvement to recover the pre-pandemic situation. And primary care is a priority. In fact, Osakidetza is working, as you have said, on the review of the primary care strategy. Of course, if we do not take into account that in 2019, circumstances like those that have happened have occurred, because obviously, we will disfocus what is the objective, what is the revision of the primary care strategy. And it is doing so with the participation of a team of 40 OSI professionals. Before the end of the year the proposal will be forwarded to the Health Committee for its contrast, and it will be the basis for working on this issue with the prospect of a country agreement. In any case, we continue to take improvement measures. Accessibility to primary care is 80% above the pre-pandemic situation. The integration of physiotherapy and nursing professionals into primary care is being deployed. 340 structural positions of professionals in Primary Care are being created. We invest more than 20 million euros each year in primary care centers. In the training offer of specialized MIR Medicine, Euskadi has offered the maximum teaching capacity - i.e. 109 Family Medicine posts -. This October nearly EUR 300 million is paid for the professional career of 27,567 professionals in Osakidetza. We offer both family medicine and Pediatrics resident physicians when they complete their fifth year of residence a long-term contract proposal. Measures are under consideration to encourage the choice of hard-to-reach posts in rural areas for long periods of time. Improving primary care is a priority for the Government and we have raised it in this House as a country agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made for the First Vice President and Chief of Security, Security... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made for the First Vice President and Chief of Security, the Destruction of the Security Committee. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to report today the censorship of the Security Department. Mr. Erkorek, I've asked you for the peace and agreements of the Security Committee. And this is what you've been through. That's all. Like this: It's all dyed black. You've read me a list of the receivers. These are public offices. I don't know how he can influence the police in order to harm them. You moderated my contents. I'm hiring the press, and there's more information in it than you're giving me here. The last meeting of the Security Committee was in June and Europe Presse says: "Se aprobo un acerdo por el que se permitira a la borderer a las bases de datos polyciales internioles." I'm asking for an agreement. You don't give it to me. The highest level of that Green Craper was the logo of the RedMunch, you're killing me too, Mr. Erkok. And do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuga, the answer to your question today is given. The Security Department has already agreed that you have this subject, and that's what you've been doing around the table. It's contained in these accounts since it's −logic that's the opinion and perspective of the Chief of − and so on. And I have no other business to do, and I have no more to say. I won't repeat them all here, because on one hand it would be impossible from the point of view of time. And secondly, because everyone is available to all of the members of the legislature on the website of this legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u63	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u64	Yes, Mr. Erkorek, you give me your opinion. I'll tell you about my experience. They used to call me the police units and show me the files. It is true that they showed them to me, it is true that I had access and could read them and they were intact. Calling on Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Rule 11(3), I say that, in addition to showing us, we have the right to receive a copy. I've got an argument with you, you don't like it, I catch you on the other side, it turns around... He says, "Do you want copies? You're gonna have copies. So, so, Mr. Erkoreka. Before, the information he showed us was complete. Now, it doesn't show us that the information, and also give us copies that are completely layered, completely unserviceable. A total setback. Before, he was giving us information without copies, now he's giving us copies without information. When they let me see the information without a copy I've never filtered any data, I'd never do it, I'd never do it. It is you who, sometimes by the press office, others uncontrollably, irregularly, by the holes in your structure, Ertzaintza officials are continuously leaking information to the press, Mr Erkoreka. And there's the problem. I want to know, I want to know, I want to understand what are the inertias, the problems, the mistakes, the failures that the management of public security here has, that are serious and that are endemic. Andery mism, mientras thoughtes a plaudída la denborda dificlilísima que prepped the border, 54 kilos de cocaína, señor Errene. "Y quiero saber si eserción no nos la pensa si believen nos la hubies dice, porque hay que ver, porque hay que ver meddes no quieren que ven quemos, no quire que miremos." You used to teach lessons around the first transfer when you were the head of the Governorship. Now, you're the head of the Security Department and you've turned him into a bunker. And I don't say the Arlias, because she says herself, is your department. And that's what I'm dealing with right now. And the problem is not EH Collect, it's not EH Collect. The problem is what you're doing. And it is not the only movement, but also the soberbia, that there is also superiority in this. We were just trying to make a right. We wanted to open up a little bit of copies, too. The same right as you, the right to information, is to reject it in black ink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u65	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, there's no need to reopen this discussion. This discussion has had the beginning and the end. In this case, among others, you have mentioned many instances, which happened before, I do not know what was left to you either in this law or in the precedent proceedings, when I do not know how. All these may be examined by words, and by particular reasons, in each case. You want to reopen a closed discussion. You asked for information. This information was given to you in a partial, based, and justified manner. You didn't like that, and you suggested resources for the table. The desk asked the department, the department, the Security Department, what reasons they had for such a partial denial. We're the ones who made our business, there's business here that's available, in the service of everybody. There they are. This information is in the Security Department, but it's not the Security Department. It's not. And as long as you've denied it in a different way, I'm not going to go into the security business right now, but I'm not going to go into the security business right now. I can talk about it, and I can't even talk about the way you've got it, about putting those information into the hands of a media. I won't talk about it. I can only say that the table took its decision after we'd done our commissions. And the decision that the table has made... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... I won't talk about it. What I can say is that the table took its decision after we've done our commissions, and the board's decision is to stop the whole problem here. Roma Locuta, causa finita. What I can say is that the Department, the Security Department, will certainly do what the Table has decided and can decide. I don't know if you have the chance to plan any other means, or if you feel like it, I don't know, but we can tell you that the table will follow from beginning to end. And this one has no other way; this has no way. Here you can bring this a thousand times, but it has been decided from him who has to take it. If you don't like it, well, by putting on the resource, some, for instance Vox, the decision made by the House of the Basque Act has been taken to a Spanish instance, and has led it to the Constitution Court. It appears that you, too, have such a strong tendency to go to Madrid and embrace Spain, maybe you can do something like that. But now to open here again when this debate is closed, and when he who has to decide has made no sense, I will no longer turn it over.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u67	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of David Soso Rodríguz together of the parliamentary laws of Podemos-IU, the commander of the Public and Autoberan Division, concerning the Colusary Acts." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u68	Egun on, lehendakari. Good morning, Counselor. On 1 October 2021 the prison competition was transferred, and the Basque Government's Computer Society called for prison management on 12 September to Ibermática. The second company with the largest baremation was Inetum, both currently investigated by the Basque Competition Authority for possible anticompetitive practices, for contracts also made with the Basque Government's Computer Society. Ibermática and Inetum, both of them, have been allocated in recent years some 50 and 30 million, respectively, for contracts also in turn with this same information society of the Basque Government. I insist, companies that are currently being investigated by possible collusive practices. The strategic infrastructure plan of the Basque prison institutions has not been tendered at the moment, but there is only one bidder: Idom, sanctioned by the CNMC with 640,000 euros recently for the North Zone cartel. Provision of cleaning and cleaning products for prisons, Gaska Garbitasuna Hygiene, linked to the Gaska Group, a company that was convicted by the Justice and this House, for participating in the Euskadi school food cartel. We are concerned, Madam Councillor, that after receiving new competition from the Basque Government, this will basically open up to the market of certain companies and consultants that have been sanctioned, or are being investigated, by collusive practices. We have a feeling that this problem is beginning to be endemic, and what we want to ask you is what measures the Basque Government is proposing to tackle the problem of collusive practices in the area related to the Basque administration, bearing in mind that these collusive practices cause harm to the public era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u69	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u70	Yes, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Soto, in any case, you put in the same bag some organizations of the entities attached to my department, and other departments' lititations, and a file of the Euskal Command of the competition in the tramite, and CNMCk, ocion Nacion Nacion Nacinal de Mercippus, the punishment inflicted on certain companies. I mean, it's a hell of a mess. But, in answer to your question, there is already an autonomous body, an autonomous body within the Basque institutional framework competent in the field of economic policy and defence of competition, with its own legal personality and full capacity to act, as dictated by Law 1/2012 of 2 February of the Basque Competition Authority. Annually, this Basque Competition Authority issues a memoir detailing, among other things, the activities carried out in the field of competition promotion. The memory of 2021, among other issues, includes reports and recommendations to the public sector, public procurement reports, guides and studies for better regulation, training in EJIE, and much more. I invite you to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u72	Bai. Thank you very much, Counselor. We have not only had the opportunity to read it, but also to listen to it, because, precisely, it has come to appear on some occasion to us, and also on the case of the North Zone cartel. And indeed, he explained to us that most of his role and objectives would be pedagogical, both with the public and with the private sectors. In any case, the dimension of the problem for us is very important, and it welcomes the exercise of public service, in this case the Basque Government. If we stick to the contracting portal, last year 765 contracts worth 189 million, of which 60% had a single bidder or were toe. In other words, we consider that there is a risk at the moment, and in addition to these, most of the contracts were linked to certain companies that had or were being investigated by collusive practices. We believe that there is a persistence on the part of certain companies to submit to certain procurement and public tendering processes, and that then, in turn, these companies are investigated and punished for collusive practices. We believe that in so far as, moreover, the sanctioning file of the CNMC has been said to have been harmful because it has been completely impacted in the public sector, we believe that the Public Administration should take letters in the matter with these companies in particular, in so far as the tenders, in our view, and in particular in the minor contracts, should be prevented from being successful in these tendering processes, because there is room here for manoeuvre. It is true that there is no such room for manoeuvre in public procurement proceedings, but in minor contracts it is, and we do not believe that the Basque Government is using all the capacity it has... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...the margin for manoeuvre. It is true that there is no such room for manoeuvre in public procurement proceedings, but in minor contracts it is, and we do not believe that the Basque Government is using all the capacity it has to ensure that these companies that have been sanctioned or, where appropriate, are being investigated do not continue to take advantage of the public purse, making agreed offers that cause harm to the arks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u74	Yes, Mr. Soso, you're still confused, and it's like you can decide who you can hire or not, when that's a law. I remember that the assignments are made according to the regulations established. The law of contracts in the public administration is also severe. The principle of this law is the freedom to arrive at litigations, the publicity and transparency of procedure, and the lack of discrimination between the litigators, and the equality of commerce. In this respect, is it not to be supposed that in the question you ask, there is an implicit accusation? And, above all, does not this question make us helpless? It won't go that way. This government has fulfilled on numerous occasions, also in writing, each and every one of the recruitments for which it has been asked, with absolute transparency. Also, and in particular, Mr Soto, you yourself, in relation to all the minor contracts you have requested. It seems that he intends to go to the extreme of convicting without presumption of innocence. I insist, the tenders are carried out in accordance with the rules in force. And you seem to want to establish a non-existent ban on hiring with certain companies. In this regard, as you will be aware, the Guide on Public Procurement and Competition of the Basque Competition Authority - which is the competent body in this field - is pronounced with considerable clarity. And I read word for word: "The prohibition on hiring shall be declared directly by the contracting bodies on the basis of the administrative sanctioning decision of the competent authority, detailing the scope and duration of the measure. In the event that the relevant competition authority is not pronounced, the Minister of Finance and Public Service may do so on the proposal of the Advisory Board on Contracts, with the same effect." None of this has happened today. As far as the Basque Government is concerned, therefore, absolute respect for the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking, "about the state of the Economics Department of Economics, the Economics of the Ciudadans, the Economics Department of Economics and Environmental. " Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. Euskadi suffers, like the rest of Europe, as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the effects of a strong energy crisis that threatens to worsen this coming winter. In the face of this crisis, many European countries have shown support for extending the lives of nuclear power stations and even opening up new projects. Belgium, for example, seeks to extend the expired licences to keep its power stations operational; while France has proposed the construction of up to 20 new nuclear power stations. And we must remember, by the way, that much of the energy we consume in Euskadi is bought from France and has a nuclear origin. In this thesis, we see that from the Basque Government, on the one hand, there are manifestations contrary to nuclear energy or calculated silences; while, on the other hand, in the European Parliament, the MEP, her party, the PNV, Izaskun Bilbao, is voting in favour of considering nuclear energy as green energy. For this reason, and with the aim of ensuring that citizens, businesses and all the social partners in Euskadi know what to do, I am obliged to ask you what the official position of the Basque Government is with regard to nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u77	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Gil, I'll be perfectly frank with you, and very soon, because I didn't change my attitude. There's already a plan to close nuclear Plants in the state, and it's for the fun plan. In other words, I will be clear and concise about the position of the Basque Government on nuclear energy. The Basque Government is in favour of compliance with the Spanish State's nuclear shutdown planning. As you know, there is an orderly and consensual closure approach between the Spanish Government and the companies that own the power stations that foresees and determines the steps necessary to achieve the clauses that we intend should be further developed. It was agreed in 2019 and contemplates the phased closure of existing plants between 2027 and 2035. And this is the position of the Basque Government today. And if you ask me about the position of the Basque Government a few years ago, I will also tell you that the Government was in favour of the closure of the Santa María de Garoña power station when it had already exhausted its working life - 40 years - and also presented security problems. This I defended myself in this very rostrum. Therefore, the position remains the same as it was a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u80	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, Counselor, for your explanations. I understand that your answer is that you are in favour of the closure plan for nuclear power plants. Which is fine, if it is, because it clashes with what you voted for in the European Parliament, where you have had no objection to voting in two hands in favour of considering this type of energy as green energy. And besides, it also clashes with what is happening in Euskadi, I understand that with its approval, with that of the government. And because of our high energy dependence, we are consuming energy purchased from France of nuclear origin... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ...I understand that with your approval, with that of the government. And it is that, because of our high energy dependence, we are consuming energy purchased from France of nuclear origin. One cannot be in favour of closure and, at the same time, buying nuclear energy. I mean, you can't be absorbing and blowing at the same time. This is because, as I said before, more and more European countries are considering their position on this issue. Leaded by Germany, Belgium and France, a clear and majority stake in this type of energy can already be perceived across Europe. The example of some countries that have not stopped growing in the last 33 years is striking. I want to say economically, as for example Poland, that, while having the cheapest energy in Europe, they know that joining the nuclear energy label is a winning horse and propose to open six reactors between 2033 and 2040. I have many doubts that your Government has more or less better experts or greater environmental sensitivity than there is in these European countries. And it also clashes with common sense and what should be a responsible policy. Because, look, counselor, we are aware that at the moment most of the Basque population is in a position against nuclear energy. But we are convinced that it is based on ignorance and confused information, because the fact is that with the data in hand nuclear energy has been classified by the European Union as green energy. Why? Because it is a highly sustainable energy, totally free of CO2 emissions. And with today's technology, much more evolved than the one that kept old power plants, it meets very high standards of safety and efficiency. And we consider it a mistake to table this debate in simplistic terms facing renewable energies with nuclear energy, as if renewable energies had no drawbacks or no drawbacks and were the panacea, when it is right to make them live together in a wise combination. We agree that we must bet heavily on renewable energy, but in the short term we need nuclear energy that will get us out of the way. And the right thing, the honest and responsible thing is to say it to the citizen, even if it doesn't give a vote. We are aware that nuclear energy has pros and cons. We know, for example, that it has very high fixed costs and very low variable costs. But that, precisely, can help us to make a correct mix of energy at a critical time as we are. And therefore, what I would ask you to do is to make your position more flexible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u82	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Sir, Gil, the debate on nuclear energy has been closed in Euskadi for decades. Unfortunately, we had to regret personal losses in the project of the Lemoniz nuclear power plant at the hands of the terrorist band ETA, and that debate was closed. I share the diagnosis of the gravity of the situation right now. But it does not intend to seek a contradiction between the position of the Basque Government with regard to nuclear energy with political criteria of parties that form the Basque Government and that are dealing in Europe with a situation that speaks of taxonomy, that is, financing, being green. In any case, the current situation often means that the urgency prevails over the road map that all countries have agreed to achieve absolute decarbonisation in 2050. Each country has set out the steps to follow, so that the commitments for 2050 are met and at the same time ensure security of supply at this time of gravity. This need for urgency to prevail over what is important on many occasions means that this supply guarantee is being implemented in certain countries by activating coal plants. Because the urgency prevails over the important and even eliminating the cat from fracking. In our case, in the case of Euskadi, of course, we continue to make a clear commitment to energy efficiency, the start-up of new renewable installations, gas as a transitional energy and the necessary actions to replace that gas with non-fossil fuels that will help this decarbonisation. The decision taken in exceptional circumstances, of course - on this occasion as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine - does not have to lead us to make unwise decisions. The objectives remain in force, we have said so on more than one occasion. And, of course, I'm going beyond that. If anyone had the chance to pose the reopening of the Garoña power plant, they would encounter an unbreakable barrier, which is their dismantling from the year 2023. A closure and a closure that is irreversible, with investment needs that are inexhaustible for its opening and that, of course, is beyond any doubt. It is an element that should not be raised at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, Amaia Martína Mistila Mistto, the member of the Vox team of Economics, the chief department of Economism and Environmentalism, the intention of creating Errioxa of ABRAzka, Errioxan JDK, a protected origin." Martinez andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u84	Good morning, Mrs. Tapia. ABRA is an association of wineries that, animated by political formations with names and surnames, have been engaged for six years in the disengagement of the wineries of Rioja Alavesa from the denomination of qualified origin Rioja; to which they owe the good name and prestige of the wines of the area. He began strongly defending the total disengagement to go backwards until accepting that the protected designation of origin Vineyards of Álava is kept under the umbrella of DOC Rioja. The matter is also before the courts, Mrs Tapia. So let us ask you what added value does the creation of a protected designation of origin - Arabak Mahastiak, Vineyards of Álava - bring to the wineries of the region and to the group of DOC Rioja wineries to which they belong?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u85	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u86	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Martínnez, you said it yourself: The ABRA Society has asked for the cause of this request, that is, of private cellars. So they know −eta, too, very well, because they've explained so often why they want to get out of the cellar and start a new designation of origin. However, I have no difficulty in answering the question, because, using the administration's hand, I'm holding it... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... but I have no difficulty in answering the question, because with the administration's hand in hand, we have done our duty. We've done our duty. It was introduced by a private group of barns, and it was accepted. Why? Because it follows the conditions of transition from the top to the bottom. And our obligation is that. Look at the request and answer this request.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u88	Mrs Tapia, it is clear that a qualified designation of origin that protects wineries of almost all kinds and conditions in different geographical areas is also complicated to satisfy everyone. But in the face of difficulties, we could say that in general terms, peace reigned in the Regulatory Council of DOC Rioja, until Bildu, PNV and ABRA arrived to take control of the wineries of Rioja Alavesa. The process is being rather opaque, so today, it is difficult to know how many small wineries in the region have joined the project Vignedos de Álava. If we were guided by information from the media and some other, the figure would range between 15 and 40, from more than 300 wineries in Rioja Alavesa. And among them, besides, there would be none of the big ones. So it doesn't look like this whole project is going well. But the parties that make up this Basque Government do not seem to care too much about the collateral damage of their movements to make their patriotic dream come true. It is not a question of making a new brand for greater satisfaction of the wineries of Rioja Alavesa, but of taking control of the production of grapes and wines in the area, distinguishing this region from the rest of the protected ones in DOC Rioja. Bildu is strongly committed to breaking the wineries in the region with DOC Rioja, because the independence goal also justifies putting the future of Rioja Alavesa wineries at risk. On the other hand, the PNV resists breaking. He prefers to register the Vineyards of Álava PDO, and to provide it with his own Regulatory Council, with the presence of the Basque Government and the Alavesa Diputación. But that is, to remain covered by DOC Rioja, which is the one that really guarantees national prestige, and, above all, international prestige. It's the one that opens the markets to the world. The story is repeated over and over again, and we fear that you will soon give another twist, granting Vineyards of Álava the National Transitional Declaration, which would open the door to the creation of their Regulatory Council, and enable the attached wineries to label their own wines without the inclusion of the term Rioja. That's how you recognized it yourself. This Government is in favour of flagging the administrative and judicial struggle in defence of the interests of this small number of wineries. So we have no doubt that in a very short space of time, the Transitional National Declaration will be a tangible reality. They should be asked whether the rest of Rioja Alavesa wineries and wineries do not deserve this Government to defend their interests as well, if it is not the responsibility of this Executive to defend the interests of every Rioja Alavesa winery. If so, the reasonable thing would be to support most of the wineries in the region. All those who have not joined the ABRA project, and who continue and will continue to be part of Rioja's qualified designation of origin, and who, of course, are also a large majority. But we understand him. Defending those who want to remain part of a supraregional entity does not contribute at all to the construction of the country. Your stake on Vineyards of Álava is gasoline to fuel the fire, it's a bad image for La Rioja. They are potential damage to all wineries covered by the designation of origin qualified. All this is negative for the global brand, and for which it is intended to create in Rioja Alavesa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u89	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u90	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Martinez, I'm going to answer you in Spanish, because it seems like you don't understand me in Basque. It is the wine-producing and marketing wineries themselves that have expressed on different occasions in public and in private their motivations to present this initiative. It is also necessary to note that to know the reasons that are argued for the launch of this new DOC it is necessary to listen, to do the exercise of understanding. To strive even to understand or share the idea. And therefore, as a government, what we have first and foremost is respect. And according to the information they have expressed on more than one occasion, private wineries, I insist, those that drive this initiative, understand that the wine they share presents attributes that they claim to be respected and that they intend to safeguard. Quality wines, made by professionals with high knowledge to which they add to their professionalism, that of farmers and farmers and that of wineries and wineries. Characteristics which must be objectively recognised and which represent one denomination or another. We know that the Wineries of Rioja Alavesa are valued in the market. The promoters of this new DOC feel the need to articulate models that reflect and recognize the specificities of Rioja Alavesa, of Rioja Alavesa wine in a market that demands uniqueness and personality in its products. Of course, from the Basque Government we respect, and from what is ours, of course not to add or subtract anything else. Respect your decision. The decision of private wineries. The market is increasingly demanding and we consider it interesting and enriching any process that can be developed to analyze where each of the wineries in our territory wants to be in the future. We have always said so from the Basque Government. We defend and support each and every one of our wineries, each and every one of our farmers, and all those decisions that are protected by law make the companies that form the Wineries of Rioja Alavesa - stay in DOC Rioja, or pretend to leave it and go to the new denomination -. All will also be treated by this Government. We've respected the camping plan from the start, so we'll do it until the end. The process has been long and the work behind it is great. Since July 14, 2016 it has been presented... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...the process has been long and the work behind it is great. Since 14 July 2016, the application has been submitted and has been processed in accordance with all administrative requirements. And it is up to us, I insist, to defend each and every one of the wineries in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the House of Ogs. " Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Azpiazu, in view of the announcement made by Mr Lehendakari at the General Policy Plenary, what functions or what new functions and objectives the Government intends to assign to the Basque Institute of Finance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u93	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u94	Mr. President, chief of the department. Senor Gordillo, the new financial strategy of the Euskal Institute will be on the axis. The new financial policy strategy of the Basque Government will focus on the Basque Institute of Finance. I put it in context. At the end of the 19th, the Basque Government undertook the reorganization of its financial policy on the basis of three main objectives: to establish an institutional, coordinated and specialized organisational framework geared to the problems of the company; to respond to market failures with a reasoned and efficient intervention model; and to optimally organize intervention instruments. In this future framework, the Basque Institute of Finance will play a nuclear role as a key entity in the development and management of tools that provide a financial response to the needs of the Basque economy. The planning carried out assigns to the Basque Institute of Finance a fourfold mission: to hold the financial participations of the Basque Government in the various funds and societies; to manage the financial instruments linked to government policies; to concentrate its credit activity following strategies of co-investment with private financial institutions in actions in areas of greater added value for the economic development of Euskadi, and to develop a protocol of coordination and global knowledge centralized in the various financial actions of different nature with participation of the Administration. The Basque Institute of Finance is attached – as you know – to the Department of Economics and Finance, and since 2014 it has been in a process of strengthening it by providing it with the means to initiate an autonomous and growing activity, based on the deployment of financial instruments in response to the needs in the Basque economic and business sphere. As you know, this year we will present the new law of the Basque Institute of Finance to this Parliament for approval. Of course, I expect your support, Mr. Gordillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u95	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Azpiazu, I am very familiar with this about regulating, defining the objectives, the strategy of the Basque Institute of Finance. You have quoted some date, 2014, but the truth is that every time there is a start of the session, in the institutional statements made by the lehendakari normally in the General Policy Plenary, as the Basque Institute of Finance always comes out. Let us see if now if with the law that has announced us some things are actually being defined. In a written reply you acknowledge, Mr Azpiazu, that the participation in companies that has been made by the Basque Institute of Finance, even recently by Finkatuz, which is the fund that is written to the institute, I quote textually: "it is not derived from a specific investment programme". That is why, man, I think it is necessary to define the specific criteria, which specific criteria have been used so far. From now on, in the future, we will see, but what specific criteria are then used to enter the capital of companies or to exit the capital of companies or to grant extraordinary credits, as we have seen that some has recently been granted quite quantum. Between Instituto Vasco de Finanzas and Finkatuz, which has 160 million euros at the moment and rising, there are holdings, there are loans to several companies, and companies of the most diverse. Lately, 3 % has been invested in CAF – as you well know – this 2 million euro loan that I have quoted and something else. As they have said again that they are going to regulate and that, moreover, they are going to present the bill, for what we ask our support for, because well, I will point out some ideas, to see if he listens to us, even if he listens to us with drops and little by little, but look, as on the subject of deflation, at the end they have ended up listening to us, to see if they listen to us in this too. First of all, in addition to regulation in the law, Mr Azpiazu, I think it is interesting..., this is the government of strategies, establishing an investment and disinvestment strategy. Are you planning on doing this, or are we going to see?, which is what we usually do in this case. Secondly, being public money, are we going to define, is it going to be defined in the law, are we going to define in a strategy the specific criteria to grant or not to grant extraordinary loans to companies that ask for it, or are we going to see it already? And, thirdly, you know that taking part by public institutions in the capital, in the ownership of private companies, is viewed with magnifying glass by the regulators of the CNMC, and specifically by the European Commission. We have already had a very negative experience, or several negative experiences in the case of Euskadi in the past. In this law, and above all in these strategies, does the Government intend to introduce criteria, and above all preventive, legal, technical and legal reports and controls, and to seek, above all, the support of institutions that already exist in this area, such as the Basque Competition Authority? That is why, Mr Azpiazu, being public money of what we are talking about, I think it is very necessary that the law that you announce, and above all, in a specific strategy or programme that is defined, because it is clear, above all, what specific criteria will be used in some cases for companies to have legal certainty, and above all, for everyone to understand and know what is being spent on, where public money is being used. In any case, Mr Azpiazu, if the strategy at the end is simply to take part in companies, or to grant them loans simply so that they do not leave, if that is not followed by another series of actions, for man, I think we will be doing a bad business. That is why, Mr Azpiazu, this is the government of strategies and programmes. I look forward to that law that you have announced to us, and I would also like to know what you think of this circumstance, and whether you are going to introduce these issues into that bill and into that investment strategy or programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. Below... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...of law. And in that investment strategy or program these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u99	Mr Gordillo, if that is your spirit, that of collaborating to improve this law – I insist – has the door open and we can work on this issue. Of course, no one would have thought of a pandemic, of the war in Europe in the middle of the 21st century, but reality is imposed and this government, my department and the Basque Institute of Finance are responding in an agile, flexible way and I would say - I suppose this will not be shared equally - in a correct and strategic way. The Basque Institute of Finance has deployed a multitude of tools that have sought to meet the specific financial needs of companies under co-financing with private entities, with the exclusive will to provide added value by enabling economic projects of interest to the Basque Community to be carried out. Over the course of these eight years, it has granted 630 million funding to more than 370 companies active in Euskadi and with a living balance of funding granted of 210 million euros. It is worth highlighting the development of a range of tools that respond to the financial needs identified in our economy and that reflect the cross-cutting nature of the Basque Institute of Finance. In fact, the variety of financing solutions has been broadened with the creation - as you said - of the Finkatuz fund, of capital participation, to ensure the roots of Basque companies, managed 100% by the IVF. And I'm warning you that I hope I can announce some quiet operation through Finkatuz this same quarter. In this context, the new law consolidates the nuclear role of the IVF in the financial policy of the Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u100	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question of David Soso Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team made of economics and of the Chief of Ogas." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u101	Good morning, counselor. 1% accumulates around 20% of the wealth in Euskadi, when just over a decade ago it did not reach 14%. Do you realize what this implies by the power that accumulates that 1% in our country? Labour income accounts for 75% of direct taxes. What about the capital? Well, capital incomes are making less and less money. Before the 2008 crisis, capital income was 39,6 %, while by 2020 that percentage was reduced to 24,4 %. That's 15 points less. We believe that this gap, which is abruptly growing inequality in fiscal terms, must have some sort of response from the Basque Government. In this regard, I ask you, Counselor, what do you intend to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u102	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u103	Mr. Soto, I agree with you that one of the slight social challenges is to face the growth of difference. I agree. In fact, I'm inviting you to read the latest numbers of the magazine in Economics. New from printing, about inclusive growth and welfare society. I suppose you do, but I do want to highlight it. That despite the deterioration observed in 2008 in all the Western economies affected by the crisis, inequality in Euskadi remains at levels significantly lower than the measures of the European Union and the Eurozone, as well as in countries such as Germany and France, and well below those recorded in Italy and Spain. According to Eurostat data, the coefficient of Gini in Spain in 2018 was 33.2 and in the European Union 30.9. That is, a difference with Euskadi's data of more than six and three points, respectively. Perhaps you are trying to argue that the fiscal structure in the territories has gradually become more regressive, and this has been that inequality has allowed it or has allowed inequality. And I tell you, the Basque tax system is a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness, and it is part – and I say part – of the solution and not the cause of income inequalities. Therefore, we should not pose a challenge as ambitious as reducing income inequality, focusing exclusively on fiscal measures. A progressive tax system is necessary, but it is not enough to address inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u104	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u105	Mr Councilman, you have very skilfully used the Gini coefficient, which basically addresses wage inequality but referring to the European Union, you have not done so in relation to the State. I imagine it has to do with the fact that in relation to the State the difference is that in the Basque Country it has been gradually increasing more than in the state framework. Yeah, yeah, that's right. Inequality has increased in the Euskadi framework compared to the State. In any case, fiscal inequality is not the only element that can combat social inequality, but it is a fundamental part. I don't know how you can tell me that the Basque fiscal framework is proportional and redistributive when it is agreed with the People's Party and the only fiscal measure that you have addressed – yes, in 2018 – and the only fiscal measure that you have addressed in recent times is deflation, which is at the forefront of what the People's Party has requested in this same chamber a few months ago, and in other autonomous communities as well. You've been telling us for two years that this is no time for tax reform. The elixir of youth, Mr Councillor, is going to be invented before we can finally deal with a structural change, or at least we can deal with a reflection on it. Because you have always alluded to us that this reflection is being done and that first we have to compare the effects of that structural reform of 2018 agreed with the People's Party. And, of course, that framed in successive crises is difficult to assess the impact of it, isn't it? The problem is that in other places tax changes are being addressed that are also in line with this exercise of redistributing wealth and not here, having full capacity to do so. I ask you: how is it possible for the Spanish Government to introduce the special tax on electricity and banking, on big fortunes, which yesterday announced what was announced, and on the part of...−...?... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... how is it possible that the special tax on electricity and banking, on big fortunes, was introduced in the Spanish Government, that yesterday what was announced was announced, and on the part of the Basque Government the only thing that is said - and on the part of, in this case, its group in Congress - is that we must first inform you because it was part of Pedro Sánchez's investment agreement; then, on the other hand, that taxes are concluded? Which is logical, obviously. And nothing else. I would invite you, in addition to that exercise of calling for what is approved in the Spanish Government to be translated here as income, to apply the story and also to carry out a structural reform exercise that is in line with the redistribution of wealth. Because, I have already pointed out in my first speech, that inequality is growing in Euskadi in relation to 2008. Now it's growing up in Euskadi. I understand the exercise of making an analog comparison with other places to tell me that social inequality, in short, in Euskadi is smaller than in other territories. Yes, but the Basque tax system is not progressive or redistributive. Capital income related to labour income, in short, the distance between one and the other has been triggered. Then, we told him to apply the self-government he is capable of, not just deflation, and to redistribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u106	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u107	Mr Soto, it is very unstructural the Eastern fiscal festival that we are watching from Madrid, from your parliamentary group in Madrid and from the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Fortunately, in Euskadi we have a system, I insist, ideal, we have public services and services that pursue the protection of the most vulnerable people. This government, as you know, spends 8 out of 10 euros on social spending. I'll give you some recent examples. During the pandemic, there was an increase in social emergency aid, a fund of exclusion areas, aid to support families, aid to rent free housing, exemption from rent and community costs, aid for insertion companies and special employment centres, aid for people affected by ERTE - Mr Soto, Mr Soto - immediate response to the effects of the war, social aid for vulnerable people, social emergency aid and to alleviate energy poverty, aid for the integration of homeless people, resources for young people without family support, local support networks for vulnerable older businesses and Azken Sarea Indartzen, social aid for the reception of Ukrainian refugees, psychological support programme for refugees. I'm on it. The Hitzartuz programme – of which I suppose it will be agreed – will increase by 10% of the ESAs, reduce the cost of supplies in the social housing stock, increase the income limit for access to social housing, aid to the food sector to mitigate the impact of inflation, energy efficiency aid to compensate for the increase in the bill to families. I don't have much more time, but we could keep going. Mr Soto, Euskadi will maintain European leadership in the fight against inequality, which he has no doubt about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the KRRR of the KRRRR of the EGR, as regards the project of the Educational Educational Act in Basque Autonomy." Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u109	Thank you, Chief. Leader of the Union, good morning. On the 7th of April, we obtained an historic agreement in this parliament, the whole majority of the legislature that agreed to an education agreement. And a few weeks ago, your department has made a project against the educational law of Araba, Biscaia, and Gipu. I'd like to know, we'd like to know the criteria by which you've worked that prevision project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u110	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u111	Yes, Mr. President of the legislature, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days. Mr. Arrese, as is well known, was at the 15th of September, and, as you have mentioned, the beginning of the pre-emineration of the Esunomical Educationalian Educational law was given to the public bill of information and participation. So that the important thing is to ensure the greatest part of the social agencies that are willing to contribute to the text. As a starting point, we had a basic agreement that had obtained the vast protection of the majority in this legislature, and he's been working through April 7th to reflect the order sent by this Chamber in the text. We have discussed this work with care and commitment in order that the spirit of agreement should be faithfully received in the text of the draft; and this is our principal criterion. This very week, as I have remarked, is now the moment of society, which is the time of society. We are facing a process of great illusion, the moment we must consider it a unique opportunity. I have been able to verify the illusion which this process excites in many meetings and meetings I have made with the operators of the education community, families, patricians, operating societies, and directors of the schools. We must be able to answer the hopes created, and to obtain the law for all of us. The law that will represent us as a people. In fact, education is a national goal and deserves all of us to be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u112	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u113	Thank you, Chief. I dare say that we are in the presence of the law of this legislation. That's why today, the Basque Country wants to make three words and three commitments to the education community and the company of Basques. First word: quiet. This process, this process which we are starting now, needs calm, we need relief. We know that dams are not good, and in all the tramitation of this law we need time and peace. We've got to go through the education community as a part of it. So far, we have contributed to it, and it has to be a part of the community of education, which is the only way to accomplish it. We must give this whole process time, peace, and calm, as I have said, to calm down. The second word, which I want to transfer today, is courage. Education... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... We must give this whole process time, quietness, and, as I have said, quietness. The second word, which I want to transfer today, is courage. This law of education requires courage. Education agreement marked out a direction for the government, your department, and parties, and to develop it, to develop it, to be faithful, but also to that spirit we have spoken of we need courage. We need courage to give him new jumps that will allow the transformation. We need courage to open a new transition to a special education system. We need courage to penetrate into the eucalyptic section. And we need courage to guarantee the transmission of euscal culture as well. We need courage to define the Basque Education Service, which we agreed in the education agreement, the Basque Education Service properly. And we need also courage to defend ourselves in a centralization and a new model of government. And the third word, the choice. The Basque Country will not let this opportunity go away after 30 years. We have a new opportunity in hand, so that, being faithful to the education agreement, we must make use of this opportunity. We have to give the best of what we have in education to build that euska model, and to open the road to a special education system. And we want three commitments delivered today. The Basque People are engaged today to guarantee their high discussions. There must be an unlimited discussion that we must give in this law of education. It must be a debater, and we are committed beyond the process which we are to give in this legislature to open a phase with the education community today, and to receive their contributions properly. The second engagement we receive is all those engagements reflected on in the treaty of education, those engagements which we shall be faithful, we will define the spirit, the spirit that led us to this education agreement, and make as many corrections and amendments to this proposition as you shall offer us. And the third engagement we take is our commitment to society. It's our commitment to the community of education. And that we will act carefully, seriously, and truly, with regard to this whole process of the completion of this law of Education. We won't let this option go astray. We'll use this option window. And I'm sure we'll be able to answer the question as big as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u114	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u115	Thank you. Stop yellow. The criterion for drafting the draft law has been to respect faithfully the spirit of the agreement reached, transferring it to the articulated text of the law. We must stress the importance of the complicity and active participation of the educational community and citizens in general. As I have just indicated, now is the time for society. The deadline for contributions is until the 13th of October, and from here I invite you all to enrich the starting text. He grew calmer. We've been two years, two years. And we'll continue. And for the last two years, we've gathered dozens of meetings and hundreds of people, and we're still meeting. We'll regroup the directors next month, the teachers' representatives, and we'll listen to society forever keeping their opinions loyal, which, on April 7th, this legislature reflected on our message. We have to continue to create self-confidence based co-working spaces, to start leading challenges and work together. The agreement on principles, in conversation, participation, and agreement in an open and open process, has been the result of a work made together. Even in the next stage of transitions of the law, our path is to maintain this method of work. So we agree, we must continue to make steps, if we wish to specify the agreement that we have made, in a text which will represent us all. We've gone on, we've got a text for discussion, but we've still got a long way ahead. We'll continue to report this work with all transparency, and we'll hold up space for interview and cooperation in order to give proper answers to the engagement which had been made before this chamber. Continue, having courage, and taking advantage of our opportunity here to go on together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u116	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, was made to the head of the Board of Education on the platform where they were to fill the Squares. " Mrs. González, your word is from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u117	Good morning. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. At the beginning of school, at the beginning of the year, we want to ask you about the problems that happened in public school. Because it's been rather moving for students, teachers and families. On the one hand, the mistrust that has generated the decrees and regulations published, including some on school holidays; the problems with school transport to public centres - with an agreement in extremis at night before starting classes - and, above all, the problems caused by Ordezkagune, the platform for managing vacancies in public centres. For example, positions that had been left vacant in the previous award process, and that had turned... and did not spill over into the system from the first moment; errors in specifying the days, or places that do not appear in the application, while the addresses of the centres are still waiting to fill those posts. This has passed at the beginning of the course, but it is still happening, this lack of teaching and educational staff. And that is why we want to ask you how you intend to restore all the problems caused by the malfunction of this platform.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u119	Thank you. Mrs. González, you mentioned it and the question you entered was the problem, the 5th of September, and the 7th, the problems were a technical problem. And in response to that, we got beyond it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u120	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... And in answer to that, we succeeded in cancelling it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u121	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u122	Well, the management of vacancies in schools if it is done through a digital platform, it must offer all the guarantees. It's been rigging a ezin from aitzakia izan. And we believe that what you call simple technical problems does not justify as many mistakes or prejudice as it is producing. And it is a situation that can also be predicted. Ehundaka irakasle beat beraien lanpostua aukeratzen. We talk about the work of thousands of teachers and educators and their labour rights. Many of these professionals have lost job opportunities throughout the course. Imagine choosing or getting a place to cover a full course and get to that place and that place is occupied. This has happened, this is real. What answer have you given to this person? None. And these workers have lost all the rights inherent in a fixed one-year position, and they are fully entitled to do so. Or the case of a person who lives in a situation similar to the previous one and who tells us "not only do I feel despised, but I also feel helpless", since neither the Education Delegation nor the Personnel Management Directorate nor so far the Ararteko have given him any response to his complaints. Besides, we have learned that there are in the Special Education the rarests of all years, which are not yet assigned. On the other hand, around 2,300 professors knew a few hours before school began, where they were going to be at school, con la angustia y el nerviosism que eso produce. And we must not forget that this directly affects the quality of public schools and public centres, not only because of vacancies but also because of the number of steps that the centres' addresses have to take in the face of this shortage of staff. As the old saying says, 'Every man's right is his own.' A cada cual lo suyo, comeo mule la justica. Denle a cada una de statuss najados afecladas el derecho adquirido con pluno derecho. And let this first confusion of learning serve to reveal what it is that is at stake: the right to the educational education of all children and young men in our public schools, and the quality of the Basque College.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u124	Mrs. Gonzalez, Mrs. Gonzalez. The replacement has placed in the hands of the candidates who are to be managed in telematic fashion by the State of Eucharistic Schools as well as by the order of educational professors and squares. Since it's been established three years ago, it's been a big step for the Administration and the candidates, and hundreds of replacements have been made every day. System transparency and facility with use must also be reduced. For candidates must not wait for phones to be assigned to them as a square, but simply name them on the plates they want, and the system will notify them by mobile means if any replacement is assigned to them. It should be stressed that the start-of-course award process, the so-called COCU, is a non-complexity process and consists of a sequence of consecutive administrative processes. It begins with the award of the positions of career staff in internships with preferential right over the same place in the previous course, fulfilling the commitment to improve the stability of the cloisters with the trade union agents. We must point out that for the first time in nearly 40 years, on 15 July, virtually all the staff of public centres have been formed. This involved the award of 10,587 places through the platform between June and July, and a six-week advance on the course from which there were no notable incidents. On 1 September, following the physical occupation of the places, a request is made for permits, licences and various reductions that generate new offers and so on. The incidents that occurred on 5 and 7 September affected 2,514 places and were the result of a technical computer problem that was solved by the technical team of EJIE, allowing for the award of virtually all places offered. Mrs. González, besides being a great step forward, there is also a challenge of replacement so far as it must always fit to interact with users. That's why we're working with EJIE in order to update, to improve, and to maintain. We have requested a thorough examination about the circumstances of those days, to know the reasons for problems, and the measures of improvement to be implemented. For our technology provider, EJIE, two main causes were identified: on the one hand, a technical problem related to the internal behavior of Oracle's database; and on the other hand, a change in the behavior of candidates in terms of the selection of all available places, which caused problems of recording a number of applications close to 526,000 requests on day 5, and 681,000 on day 7. It had never happened before that each user made such a massive request for the available places. As a result, each candidate selected about 100 different places on average, and some chose more than 1,000 places. EJIE will perform performance analysis and improvement actions in relation to critical processes, and will evaluate the incorporation into the platform of a virtual gateway used in massive government processes, such as covid vaccinations, in OPEs, called virtual gateway, in order to anticipate potential users' demands for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u125	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpology, made of Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacesta EH Collectors in the United States of Planting, Housing, and the Chief of Transportation, of stopping the rental housing at prices." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u126	Yes, good afternoon... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u127	Yes, good noon to all. Good afternoon, Chief Arriola. During the February, the deputy-house chief, Pedro Jauregui, had given an interview in the press, and he said that rent prices have not been raised for the last two or three years − said. And yet more he said: Perhaps they even went down in the pandemae. Well, we were surprised to hear that, and we asked you a written question, a little asking for data, and you had to admit that you didn't: you literally said the rental prices have been raised. Klaro, maybe it should be a question for fun and a little for the tenants, wouldn't it? I think it's different. And you also told us that in that answer there was already a mean... It's a April response, and you talked about the third quarter of 2021... that the rent was in 700 euros a month. Klaro, you've already updated the latest data in the last quarter of 2021, and the rents have already been uploaded to 711,5 euros per se, for instance the cost of Donosts is much higher, which shows how the rent is being raised in the last months. And these facts must be considered to be still the rise of first objects, but prior to them, and also that they are the previous facts of this serious increase of inflation. And therefore it may be supposed that the state of the tenants may be mistaken in the next few months, and especially seriously. And that's why we want to interrupt you, to know how much it'll take to prevent the rent rate. Because if EMAL inkesta, if you make the rent market, it's obvious that between 2016 and 2021 a 13% rise has been raised, it's supposed to be a bit higher than 13%. Klaro, we believe that what you're doing is when you're asked to deny the problem to minimize problems, but we also have to say that you're deleting the tools to understand the problem. Because you're still with the EMAL poll, which you've got in 2016, but you've already had another poll called SUIN, who was studying the bidding of the housing, and the data that this poll gave wasn't so nice, or because they were still more ugly when they said 'Borniquetto.' What did you do? You've decided not to update any more. Because if we're going to the UIIN polls, that 13% climb is 25%. And that's ugly because it shows you don't know what to do about it and that we're in the face of a serious problem. We don't think it's right that we've decided to remove it from the '94th year,' Mr. Arriola. I've given two objective data that shows that the rental prices of the house have increased terribly. And there's a third data, and there's a list of homelines. You have more solicitors on the house-house list than ever, proclaiming rent: 61,000, historical record, I suppose. Klaro, and as you don't have enough housing for them, there are approximately 23,000 units in the public park, or rather in the park, because you include the housing in the area, which aren't yours, we're worried about what you're doing with the bigest rent you're doing. Even today, President Urkullu has insisted that you will increase the ingrees of money in order to get these social housing to more people, but, clarro, that means that there will be less support for those who need more than that, but we'll talk about it another day. It disturbs us, because you do with the most vulnerable ones: About half those 61,000s. Because what you do with them is get ready for them, get ready for the housing, or a replacement. And klaro, what you're doing with it is warming the free market of the rent, because in a month you give 275 euros to those people who go straight to the house-owners' pockets. Well, we think that's a certain measure, perhaps, that can't be removed from one day to another, but we'd like to have a career where people think they'll get smaller. And I think the day has come when we have to talk about a power to limit rents. You have hitherto given two pretexts not to limit rents: a sort of ideology or... Well, you're saying that without proof of −plus, we think it would lead to a diminution of rentive housing. We also have been answered in writing, as a proof, by the theoretical articles of several economists, which we believe are not enough. And it's quite shocking that you mentioned an article of Milton Friedman, written in 1946, Chief Arriola, a socialist like you, Milton Friedman, as a proof of the father of neoliberalism. Of course, what did he say? You don't have to interfere in the market. We think we'd need other reports. And, for instance, this summer, Generality of Catalonia and the City of Barcelona have brought out a very interesting report, which had the effect of examining the boundaries of the rents in Catalan. And the consequences are interesting because, on the one hand, prices haven't come down terribly, they've come down a little more than 3%, year and a half... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... and the consequences are interesting because, on the one hand, prices have not come down terribly, but they have come down a little, about three and a half years, and, on the other, it is as important as that the offer has not been broken, the offer has not been broken. And they say contrary: whether he's climbed or continued to climb. We think, therefore, that the empirical results of the official document are much more interesting than that of a theoretical article in 1946. And, on the other hand, the second excuse you've put on is that it's not our jurisdiction, is it? I think it's necessary to do that in Madrid. We think you're wrong. It would be in our opinion an inexpensive term of hire in civil law. And that's why we proposed a proposal of law two years ago that you immediately rejected. But suppose you're right, suppose you're right and have to do it in Madrid. Okay. And what we see is that you're gonna have to push Madrid right after a legal umbrella party that's making fun of you and you're going to make it, here in the Euskal Autonomy Er-Edunomia, a limit of rent fit for our specialities. But the steps that have been taken up so far are not very hopeful. that he interferes in our jurisdictions. So I think you should stop playing that double game. You call it Gastate, because of the jurisdiction of Madrid, and you say it's Gastial Jurisdiction. I think we should be more serious, and I think it's time to take measures, Chief Arriola. You tried to do nothing, and it didn't work. So I think we need more courage and we have to put the effective tools on the table. So, we're asking you if you can figure out what measures the rent costs will take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u128	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, you will acknowledge with me that this year 2022 is being exceptional in many ways. We are chaining a global pandemic, which has hit us very hard health, socially and economically, with nothing less than a war on European soil. And we have seen how Russia's invasion of Ukraine and its derivatives in the form of price escalation and supply crises have significantly increased the cost of basic products and services. And in this context, the intervention of the public authorities is necessary in order to relieve the burden of families and correct the imbalances of the market. Fortunately, this crisis is facing itself very differently from what the previous crisis was a decade ago. Governments, starting with the European Union, have learned that austerity policies only harm the middle and working classes and deepen inequalities. And that is why we are implementing, in a coordinated way, measures of a cross-cutting and far-reaching social nature that will help citizens, all but especially the most vulnerable groups, to cope with the situation, also in the field of housing. Because in difficult times the co-governance and alignment of public policies of each in the field of their competences are key if we do not want to leave anyone behind. In the justification of your intervention you focus on the rise in rental prices in recent years and point out that, according to the data from the Rental Market Statistics published by our department, the average monthly price of rental housing in the autonomous community rose from €628.8 in 2016 to €711.5 in 2021, and this, in fact, represents an increase of 13% in these years. But it must also be said that this is an increase that is online with respect to the increase in the CPI during this time period - 13.2% - and below the increase in the average income of Basque households. An income that, according to the latest data provided by Eustat for the period 2014 to 2019, no further updated data, increased by 16,35 % in that period. I make this point because I believe that statistics should always take their context to determine whether the data we are providing are high or low or whether, in any case, they are in line with the rest of the associated parameters. Also adventure in his justification of the question that the strong rise of the IPC we are suffering in 2022 could further aggravate the increase in the rental price. And, indeed, it could have been so if the Spanish Government had not taken steps to prevent a rise in these terms. As you know, the Government of Pedro Sánchez, within the framework of the National Plan to Respond to the Economic and Social Consequences of the Ukraine War, has adopted an extraordinary limitation of the annual rent update of housing leases that prevents increases of more than 2%. By means of this measure, the lessee of a regular rental contract whose income must be updated because the relevant annuality of that contract is fulfilled may negotiate with the lessor the increase to be applied in that annual update of the income, establishing that, in the absence of a pact, the income of the contract cannot be updated above the variation experienced by the competitiveness guarantee index. An index that is currently at 2%. And, therefore, it cannot exceed that percentage by updating the rental contract. In addition, it is maintained that in the event that the lessor is a great forbearer the pact to be reached between owner and tenant will not be able to imply an increment greater than the variation... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... while maintaining that in the event that the lessor is a great forbearer the pact reached between the owner and the tenant may not imply an increase greater than the annual variation of that competitiveness guarantee index at the date of that update, with that natural or legal person holding more than 10 urban buildings for residential use being understood as a great forbearer, or a constructed area of more than 1,500 square meters of residential use, excluding, in any case, garages and storage rooms. This is an instrument that will greatly limit, in fact, it is already doing so, the rise of rents in Spain, and therefore, also in Euskadi. The decree remains in force until 31 December 2022, but I am convinced that to the extent that uncertainty and price increases are maintained, the Government of Spain will act accordingly. In any case, know that I, as a housing adviser to the Basque Government, am concerned about housing rental prices in Euskadi, and not only worry me, but I am very busy, and are subject to ongoing monitoring and evaluation, along with other parameters as a step ahead of political action. In the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport we intervene in the rental market with each of the tools provided by the complex competitive system that we have been equipped with, and all are aimed at realizing the exercise of the right of citizenship to decent and adequate housing, the promotion of new building and the acquisition of empty housing, the system of economic benefits or the elaboration of rules that encourage the rental of the empty housing stock. We also have a proposal aimed at taxing owners who keep rents at reasonable prices, in line with the Euskadi benchmarks, and penalising those who shoot up prices. A proposal which has already been submitted to the Tax Coordination Body, and which knows the three outsourced finances, the objective of which is precisely to control the prices of free rent. But, in addition, and exceptionally, we are taking measures aimed at alleviating the burden of increasing the lives of families with greater difficulties. We have limited the price of social rents in all public protection housing in Euskadi, both in general and in special housing. And, in this sense, the order on the determination of the maximum prices and rents of public protective housing, and the canon of endowment housing (?) which was recently approved, sets the same price range for rentals as the previous legislation in force since 2010. In any case, and as you already know, the income of tenants in the public park of the Basque Government is even more adjusted and never exceeds 30% of that weighted income. Likewise, we will take care of part of the gas bill, of the promotions of our public park that have communal boilers, to avoid that our tenants have to make an extra effort as a result of the treatment that has this type of heating. And we are talking about a total of 5,200 families in 100 communities, who are going to benefit from this help. This, together with the reduction in VAT, which is being prepared by the Government of Spain, will, to a large extent, relieve the burden of this invoice. In addition, we will assume the income limit so that people can obtain the subjective right to housing, and improve their conditions of access to social housing, or, where appropriate, to an economic benefit that helps them pay rent on the free market. It should be recalled that persons with acquired subjective rights have a preference in public housing promotions for a specific quota of 40%, and that more than 30,000 persons and families receive a monthly financial benefit for the payment of rent. Families that are in turn targeted as applicants for Etxebide. We are in the process of approving the regulations that will allow the increase in the ceiling of these revenues, which will increase from 9,000 to 11,000 euros in the living units of a single member, from 12,000 to 14,000 in living units of two members, and from 15,000 to 17,000 euros in units of three or more members. And we are talking about weighted income, so in families with two or more members, real income is always higher. I would also like to point out that the affordable rental order is scheduled to enter into force next month, the fundamental objective of which is to encourage the promotion by private developers of rental protection housing aimed at rents between 21,000 and 39,000 euros. They are persons discharged as applicants for housing in the Etxebide register, who are there because they meet the requirements, and have the right to be treated, and our obligation is to try to have their claim answered. We are aware that access to decent housing is not a marginal problem, but affects broad sections of the population who need comprehensive and long-term solutions. But also, that we are in a very difficult context, in which we must implement urgent measures of an extraordinary nature, which will help us to contain the situation. All this, without losing sight of the long-term objectives we have set ourselves as a country, which is to guarantee the right to housing of citizens and strengthen social cohesion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u130	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u131	Well, that's a very interesting answer, Mr. Arriola. He's going 13% with KPI ascent. Yeah, it's true that around that maybe you can say that the rent rate just went up a little. But, hombre, if you took currents, it was 25%. Klaro, that's why you took it away. That's why you took the poll off, and you're not going to update it anymore. Now you understand better. You spent five minutes of 10 minutes explaining the measures that Spain is doing. That's interesting, because I was wondering how much she's taking to limit the rent prices. Anyway, I'm happy to tell you that you've made me a specification, and that it's the ups you're going to adapt yourself to being the subjective right to the housing, isn't it? The things you're going to update. I think you ought to explain it to the President, too, because he explained it rather badly in the plune of general policy and even today. I'm glad to hear that, because that's exactly what EH Collect has been doing here a few months ago... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in the plune and even to-day of general policy. I'm glad to hear it, because that's exactly what EH Collectet introduced here a few months ago, the one that suggested it here, and the one that EAJ and PSE voted against. We believe that we agree with some of our reflections. For instance, one of the instruments of lowering the rental's price, is it not to increase the offer? And we think there are some things you can do without Madrid. And we've brought a few proposals here. For instance, we've brought in two proposals that would increase the rental market. We brought a bill of exchange for tantos and retractos, and thereby for increase the social rent park, the public property, which you rejected, you did not even accept the tramit. And by proposing another bill of law, that half the houses of the official protection at least should be classed or qualified to be leased from the planning of the city. And you didn't even accept that, either. So we think these things can be done without waiting for the housing law in Madrid. Another thing that can be done to increase the rental offer, to mobilize empty housing. And now you've washed your hands and all your cares pass through the council. We think that during that process, funk would have to take more than that. And we'll talk about it, because we've made another suggestion about it, because you're asking me to take that leadership along with you, right? And help the council. You've mentioned the −eta that seems interesting to us about the DA's measure. We need a tax check, see if the rent is given to the rent, if they're enough. And above all, we must review this goal, which enables us to control the prices as much as possible. You said there's a plan to bind the price reference system. And we agree. This is one measure here in 2018, which was here unanimously agreed upon by the medium of another proposal, as proposed by the EH Collectors. Hombre, but you've introduced him to the litigations, but he's not running yet, Chief Arrian. And you showed us what the system was like when you wrote a question about it, and you showed us what results it was like. And so we think there's something in there that's stuck and that's supposed to be given to it, right? And, of course, we think that in Madrid, as I said before, it would be necessary to encourage you, from the parties that make fun of you, to have an umbrella legal to make the best lease we've got here for our specialities. We think you're getting low, and what you've done has been to control the cost of building official protection at 14% this summer, Chief Arriola. A measure of what the promoters applauded with their ears. We think you need to think a little more about the tenants, and a little less about Milton Friedman and the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u132	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u133	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, most of the review of rental contracts is based on the CPI, and hence the importance of social measures such as those adopted by the Spanish Government. Listen, it affects us, that we are not on Mars; we are in Spain and it directly affects the citizens who have a situation to deal with the increase in the rental price. Because thanks to these kinds of decisions, very worrying situations will be avoided in many households in Euskadi. Let us recognize it, because it certainly affects us directly. And we too are carrying out, in the line I have commented on and on the basis of our competences, measures; and I have detailed them to you a while ago. And you are well aware of the government's powers in the field of housing, and among them, for the time being, there is no price control. That is a faculty that is in the General Administration of the State, and it is expected to launch it with the promotion of the housing law; that it is – as you know – currently in parliamentary procedure in the Congress of Deputies. We will finally see what the text looks like, but we understand that it will, in any case, create a stable framework for temporarily establishing price controls in areas declared to be tense. And for the moment, as the law is passed, my department has proposed the development of the inclusion in the new Basque statistical plan 2023-2026 of the statistics of the financial effort of the rented households. It is designed to identify the Basque geographical areas with residential market tensioning. And this statistical information will support and allow the political action of the Basque Government itself and of the municipalities that, if they decide to do so, will be able to act with more knowledge and solvency. We are taking steps in the matter, but in such a sensitive matter as this it is necessary to apply the criterion of prudence and to flee from risky adventures with little travel. As, for example, the one carried out by the Government of Catalonia - you mentioned - which has seen the articles of its housing law concerning the control of rents annulled by the Constitutional Court, which has demonstrated the Generalitat's lack of competence in this regard. On the other hand, I would like to point out that price control is not a magic measure or a panacea to end the problems of access to housing. It is a complex tool that requires a thorough study of the structure of the housing trend in each geographical area, as well as of social mobility and employment and citizens' income. And, as you said, (...) there is an analysis on this which concludes that it can come... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... social mobility and employment and citizens' incomes. And, as you said, (...) analysis in this regard conclude that it may even get the offer of the rental housing market. And this is precisely one of the battle horses in Euskadi the shortage of free housing available for rent. We have a small market, scarcely (...), in which most tenants are small owners. In addition, the latest survey on housing use for 2021 shows that in the last two years empty housing in Euskadi has been reduced by 6,775, becoming main housing, thus fulfilling its social function. And in this same period of time, the houses attached to the Bizigune program of Capture of Empty Housing, have increased from 5,425 to 7,000. They've increased by 29%. But although the evolution is positive, there have still been those of the order of 11,000 uninhabited dwellings in our territory. And, therefore, steps must be taken to try to mobilize them. To encourage their use and take them out to the market, our department has put in place measures that the relevant municipalities have at their disposal to implement if they consider it appropriate, of course. Some are working more, and others are working less. But the municipalities are of all colors. All of them. Euskadi remains very well positioned at the state level in the comparative indicators of housing, which implies that we are doing our job reasonably well. During the period 2005 to 2019, 46,000 protected housing units have been built in Euskadi. We are the second community in public social rental park in absolute terms, with more than 26,000 homes, only behind the Community of Madrid, which triples us in population. With the difference that the VPOs of Madrid lose this qualification at the age of 15, while in Euskadi the protected houses are maintained permanently. A substantial difference. We are also the second community in direct public spending executed, and the first in direct public spending plus fiscal spending, and all in spite of our small size. Obviously we have room for improvement and we have a road map. A stable and coherent model, combining different measures that act simultaneously on supply and demand, with the aim of intervening in the housing market. Also in the rental control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u134	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interregation, made by you in Martíni together of the parliamentary laws of the Podemos-IU to the planetion, Housing, and Commander of the Transportal Division, to the transfer of modern lines. " Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u135	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am, and Mr. Arriola. Good morning. Renfe at the time-Cercanías Renfe's transfer, and not at the present moment about the talk of another department and of the Spanish Government, but of the future. Polemics and seals are concentrated on this negotiation. We expect you to bring that transfer back as fast as you can, or come up in the Euscarate. But next (... I should like to talk to you about it; what transport service we would like to construct at the moment Eukadin a temporary service. We are talking about proximity, and it is not the first time that we have done so, because on more than one occasion we have already been claiming it. We are talking about proximity in Bizkaia, from the Bilbao to Santurtzi line, from the Bilbao to Muskiz line and from the Bilbao to Orduña line; possibly also from the line or from the part towards Balmaseda, and we will see if also up to the stretch... Even Carranza. Moreover, in the latter case, in Bilbao-Balmaseda, it is fundamental according to the project you have made for line four, which seems to us an error to make it subject to this transfer made. This work, once again, line four is right now without execution date, because it is pending this transfer. And once again, in this project of line four of the Bilbao metro, once again the south also of the city of Bilbao, it is abandoned as it is abandoned. As it was also abandoned in the speech of the deputy general of Bizkaia last Wednesday, when a drum and dish were announced infrastructures and infrastructures, and for Rekalde the line four still forgotten, and the viaduct no date, the viaduct of Rekalde no date of destruction. And we are also talking about the proximity in Gipuzkoa, of the Irun-Brinkola line, and perhaps the management of that Irun-Gasteiz section has also been heard. We'll see about that. There are lots of points in this transfer. On the one hand, there's a big plane worker working at the Renfe period. And at the moment I'd like to be able to give you all of this tribe as well as all that plan that works in Renf. At the head of Pandemia with few maquinists, with few drivers, as far as infrastructure and as great problems from machinery. His work goes on every day, in the time of pandemy, before and after pandemy. They carry a shortage of personnel, a deficit of factors, of drivers, and also a deficit in infrastructure and machinery. This transfer will also have to be managed in coordination, logically with ADIF. There are infrastructures that are and will be of ADIF, and there are stations that are and will be of ADIF, and that still need, despite the investments that year after year for a very long time are going to start in the negotiations of the General Budgets of the State, they need investments in security, in accessibility, in even aesthetics many times. This transfer also has or will carry a serious deficit around the machinery. The very trains that he uses right now Renfe Nearies, those series, usually 446 in Bizkaia and some 447 in Bizkaia, that many of them are very old, and that, from what the workers of the workshops tell us, in recent times, because of that antiquity and also because of the crisis of materials and the crises in the supply chains, are... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... the workshops, in recent times, because of that antiquity and also because of the material crises and the supply chain crises, are having problems in finding spare parts. And also with serious problems arising from all this, from the absence of drivers. That is true - and you will surely tell me - that they have now arrived, recently, if the data we have is not incorrect, 15, but, well, several drivers have arrived in Bizkaia, but there is a structural deficit, not just by the pandemic. In addition, drivers who need to remember that they need a fairly long process of training of accreditation, and that I think we must also foresee that part. A service that drags problems: for example, in the first 15 days of July 56 trains were suspended due to the lack of drivers; 60, by fault; and there were more than 147 delays in those 15 days; 422 incidents in the Copernicus system, which is managed; and many of them also arising from a problem that I quote now also - especially from the C3 line of Orduña - which is vandalism, and also demonstrates a need for more security and more control over the safety of the line and the units. All these problems in some institutions, and in this too, we have been working on them and have been denounced. And also our appreciation to the Renfe Business Committee, both in Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa. We were also recently aware of a letter from a Renfe driver who sent him to the president of the company, telling him all these problems and others about the mid-distance services that do not occupy us today. And also to the platforms of users of Near Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and also to the platform by a train worthy of Carranza. It's the one that worries us, so Renfe over the days. In a few minutes, I'm sure the RedMork will handle it. And what concerns us is, therefore, the guarantee of the improvement and quality of service. There'll need more workmen, more investments, and we'd like you to know your plans. Renfe Cercanías is vital for thousands of Basques and Basques who use it every day, and we need to have a plan for the next day and to improve the service for the day the Basque Government assumes management of the transfer of Cercanías. A plan to improve the lines between Bilbao and Santurtzi, Muskiz, Urduña, Balmasseda; the Irun-Brinkola line; we will see if Carranza. A plan to ensure the sufficiency of the staff, both in drivers and in information, as well as in all necessary services. A plan to ensure the renovation of the trains, of the units that it was already reporting, are quite old. A plan to improve the safety, accessibility and aesthetics of the stations themselves. A tariff plan too. We need to know which tariff system will be used in the coming dates in the Nearness service. I wish the discounts would be renewed and (now?) even the gratuity in Renfe's service. I wish it would also extend to the rest of the transports in Euskadi. A train, in short... Next week we will register the amendments to the sustainable mobility law of Euskadi. And the stake on the railway is key, it is vital if we want to meet the objectives set by the European Union and which we have committed ourselves as a country and which I have already announced to you that we are also going to introduce in the amendments we are going to make to the sustainable mobility law, because the project you have tabled does not raise any emission reduction targets. Therefore, Mr Arriola, it is time to debate in this House, that you present a plan in this House for the future of the neighbourhoods in Euskadi, for the next day on which Euskadi will manage that transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u136	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, as you said in your brief justification of the inquiry, the Government of Spain and the Basque Government are negotiating the transfer of the nearby roads that run through the territory of Euskadi. We are in a process that has not yet concluded and, like any negotiating procedure, needs to be treated with due prudence. Firstly, out of respect for the parties that are negotiating; and secondly, because as a result of the fact that it is not yet closed, there is no definitive scenario that would allow us to specify in detail the management guidelines that we are going to implement in the services and lines that are finally transferred. In this process, it is the Department of Governance that holds in our Government inter-agency relations and negotiates in practice the transfer processes on the Government of Spain. Our Department is responsible for infrastructure and rail transport in the Autonomous Community and, therefore, who is fully aware of the subject matter to be transferred, and therefore the Transport Area cooperates with and advises the Department of Governance on this matter. The management of railway infrastructure and its operation are very complex issues. In Euskadi we channel this management through two public entities, which are Euskal Trenbide Sarea and Euskotren, Euskotren which was founded 40 years ago. And since then, with a lot of effort, we have been modernizing the existing lines as a result of the first transfer of railway competences in Euskadi, and we have been creating new ones to provide citizens with a quality, efficient and safe service. Currently, without considering the data of Bilbao Metro that this... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... and we have been creating new ones to provide citizens with an efficient and safe quality service. Currently, without considering the Metro Bilbao data that this department, as you know, has designed and built, we manage a total of 200 kilometers of tracks, of which we are also holders. Last year on these tracks there were 251,547 traffics, and more than 5.7 million kilometres. In parallel, in Euskotren, in all its modes of transport, an annual average of 29.6 million trips has been made. At the moment, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the Government is awaiting the conclusion of the negotiation process which will determine on which lines currently existing we are going to manage the railway operation, and under what conditions, and we also hope that a temporary scenario for the transfer of those railway infrastructures that will eventually become Euskadi's heritage will be defined. At the entrance, I can assure you that the table is above the management of the service of the Iberian width neighbourhoods of Bilbao, that is, the C1, Bilbao, Abandonment, Barakaldo, Santurtzi; the C2, Bilbao, Abandonment, Barakaldo, Muskiz; the C3, Bilbao, Abandonment, Llodio, Orduña, and the nucleus of Iberian width neighbourhoods of San Sebastián, the C1 Irún, San Sebastián, Toulouse, Brinkola. And we're also working to get the transfer of service from Bilbao's near-metal core; we're talking about the C4F, Bilbao, Balmasseda. In this section..., this is a section that forms part of a line included in the railway network of general interest that runs through five autonomous communities: Galicia, Asturias, Castile and León, Cantabria and Basque Country, and in which it operates long and medium distance, as well as proximity and goods. Its management is of extraordinary complexity, but it has a great interest for our department, because it is the only railway connection existing between the neighbors of Las Encartaciones and Bilbao. We also want the management of the service of these lines to result in the future in the transfer of ownership of some of them, such as line C1 and C2, committed by both parties, although subject to the entry into service of the southern railway variant in its two bases. It is also in our interest to transfer the ownership of sections such as that of Irauregi Bilbao, which is within the planning of the future line 4 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway, and of some others, which will allow me not to go into more details now. If I tell you that from the point of view of service management, this issue, the ownership of the line, is not baladi. To hold the line will allow us to take decisions autonomously on the whole of the infrastructure, to plan the investments for the improvement of the infrastructure, to carry out together with the rest of the local administrations, works of urban integration, to have full autonomy in the design of the services, both of the mobility of passengers and in the transport of goods, etc.; that is, to be owners of the decision-making both of the way and of the service. In any case, and focusing on the management of the service, I would like to point out that among the competences reserved a priori for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country will be those of regulation, planning, management, coordination and inspection of such services, as well as the tariff power over them, on the basis of the following functions: the regulation and management of the service; the determination of the quality levels to be fulfilled by railway undertakings; the prior approval of the standard transport contracts proposed by railway undertakings which affect users of the service; the determination of the rights and duties of users; the determination of the staff powers of railway undertakings for the performance of the inspection functions; the planning of the service in terms of railway supply and its management; the formalisation of the public service contracts of railway undertakings which affect users of the service; the fixing of the minimum services in the event of collective conflict; the application of the sanctioning regime for breaches of the regulatory rules of the service; the coordination of railway services with the other services of competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, or, in their case, of compliance with the conditions of the public administration of the service and of service; For its part, the functions reserved by the State Administration affect the issue of railway undertaking licences, those allocated in terms of operational safety and interoperability on the railway network of general interest and the services it provides; those relating to railway personnel, their training, and the issue of their enabling titles; the investigation of accidents; and those relating to the rates to be applied to rail transport on the railway network of general interest. Moreover, all the lines subject to the transfer are active, and are currently operated by the transport company RENFE Viajeros, under the framework contract that it has signed with the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda for the provision of different services, including high speed medium distance, Avant, metric width, conventional medium distance and proximity. In the same contract, in force until the beginning of the year 2028, the (?)management of maintenance claims for the stations, with the exception of Irun and the three Basque capitals: Bilbao, Vitoria-Gasteiz and Donostia-San Sebastián, which is reserved for ADIF. On many occasions it has been speculated that at the time of the transfer the transferred lines were to be operated by Euskotren, but that is not going to be so, at least automatically. The current contract obliges the parties, and therefore, once the transfer takes place, it is in principle Renfe who continues to perform the service until the date of its termination. As you can see, the scenario is extraordinarily complex. It involves many entities with legitimate interests, which must fit in and ensure the proper functioning of the service. To this end, in addition to the logical willingness of the parties to cooperate, agreements must be signed to facilitate cooperation and joint action in the same network. We are talking about networks that are used not only for proximity, but for long distance, (?) mid distance, and in addition, in a situation where the ownership of the network will probably have to be combined with the ownership of the provision of the service, in the case of Cercanías, by the Basque Government. Our goal is to make improvements on all lines transferred as soon as possible... [[(End of tape 31) o2. Start of tape.]] ... in the case of Cercanías, by the Basque Government. Our goal is to make improvements on all lines transferred as soon as possible, and to the extent that we can. I can assure you that we are already working on it. But, first of all, the transfer must arrive, and make the transition, when it is put together, not abrupt, but something natural and above all positive for the citizenry. Don't doubt we're working on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u138	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u139	Well, it's not as bad as he finally said they're working on it, because he was worried. I was concerned that only (...) I was going to make a account of what there is, that, well, to review what is each one's competence, the machinery that Renfe has or stops having, the existing legislation..., that we can do otherwise. And the interpellation that we are doing to him, we are doing it from the utmost respect for the negotiation that is now being done in that framework of the transfer. But also with the utmost concern of a service that is vital for thousands and thousands of Basques and Basques in their day-to-day lives, and it is a service that also has structural problems to solve, and that can't wait for the transfer to arrive, and fortunately, and through amendments from my parliamentary group in Congress to the General State Budgets that were approved last year, there are also 20 million euros of investment in Renfe, for example. But we need to plan and think among all and among all, and also in this House, and with the Renfe company committee in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, with the platforms of users and users and with the experts of your department, of Euskotren, and that we also have in Euskadi, the planning of this next transfer, which will possibly be the one that remains to be reached, one of the most complex and of the largest volume that will be managed. What's going to happen... What worries me is what we are going to do from the Basque Government, what we are going to do from the Basque Government, to manage this transfer. Because, well, you said, "Well, it's not going to be automatic that Euskotren handles these lines." Logically, you can't change, not even this is changing the color of the train; not even changing the payroll of the workers. It's a much more complex process. But, Mr Arriola, right now, unfortunately, thanks to the policy of the European Union and thanks to the legislation adopted by your party and by the People's Party in the State, we have bad news for the rail system in the Spanish State, which is its liberalisation. Right now we have the railway company of France and Italy serving on the high-speed lines of Spain, competing disloyally in addition, with Renfe. I mean, there are solutions. If railways in France and railways in Italy are providing better service in high-speed lines in the state, I think we can prepare for either Euskotren or the company to which this transfer is entrusted, or the management of these lines, to do so. Therefore, I repeat to you, and also with all the constructive sense of the world, and so we will also be working on the motion, which we think we need to have a calm, calm debate on the future of the neighbourhood lines in Basque, and their integration into the entire transport system managed by the Basque Government. I insist, above all, on improving the quality of service, improving working conditions because more drivers are needed, and it also improves on everything that has to do with the machinery you know, and, well, it will be up to you to manage that if the transfer arrives soon, we have a fairly obsolete machinery, and there you will have to make quite important investments. And finally, also, and as I said, integration into the tariff system. I understand that's what you're looking at. Well, well, what we are proposing, and what we are going to propose, is that we do a collective reflection on the future management of the transfer of neighbourhoods in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u140	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours. The chief divisions of lands, housing, and transports (Arriola López): Gracias, señora presidenta. Mr. Martinez, you have a certain tendency to always put the car ahead of the oxen. And let the process take its course, because it will, and the transfer will come. But, first, it must be agreed in terms satisfactory to both sides. And that's what the government is about. There's the Department of Governance, and we're helping from our Department. I have already commented to you that this is a very complex transfer in the negotiation, but above all in the management, because in practice – I commented – we can meet with state-owned infrastructures, with a service that will be managed by the Basque Administration and operated by Renfe. And we are not afraid, we have a long experience, but the management of the new lines will involve an extraordinary effort and a process of adaptation and cooperation by all the agencies involved. Therefore, the next work to be undertaken by my Department will focus on the study of lines and the identification of investment and infrastructure and facilities needs, as well as the analysis of potential improvements in service management. Our goal, once the transfer materialized, is to improve attention, introduce more services and frequencies, better schedules, and even reduce some travel times on some of the lines. To make progress, we have organized a working group composed of officials from the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, Euskal Trenbide Sarea, Euskotren and Renfe Viajeros, the current concessionaire of the lines. And this group is going to be in charge of analyzing the possible improvements to be made in the service, studying its feasibility and establishing an action plan... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of the lines. And this group will be responsible for analysing possible improvements to the service, studying its feasibility and establishing an action plan. You don't have to tell me, we're already working on it. But in order to carry out these quality increases, ADIF's cooperation and complicity in the management of line planning is also necessary. The network owner, ADIF, has the decision-making capacity in the planning and management of the use of his network, i.e. in the decision of the traffics and services that will use it, making a schedule and usage planning that is embodied in a document called Service Chart. The current heterogeneity of the traffics - long route, goods, medium distance and proximity - combined with the finite capacity of the network makes the design process of the design graphics prioritize in this process of design the traffics of goods and long route in front of the services of proximity, the latter being the last... the most sensitive when it comes to suppressing services by (...?) and incidences, delays, etc. It seems reasonable and necessary to propose and agree on the modification of the traffic priority in the design of the traffic of services, so that in certain slots, especially at peak hours, the traffic of proximity to the other traffics is prioritized, improving the quality of the supply for the people living in the autonomous community. A serious commitment is also needed on issues such as improving infrastructure and the status of the platform, or even, if necessary, replacing part of the rolling stock with another more suitable for a specific proximity service. Although this latter point would be of negotiation between the department and Renfe directly in the field of the existing contractual relationship. We believe that the infrastructure works on these lines to be implemented by ADIF should take account of their needs as a whole. Also those that we detect from the Basque Government for the services of closeness. With regard to the functions of regulation, management, coordination, customer service, inspection to be carried out by the Basque Government, they will require a small additional staff. I reinforce that we are already working with the government's public service area. Mrs Martínez, I believe that I have been clear about all that I have been able to do in my speech, even though the process of negotiating the transfer has not yet been closed. The Government is still working towards a good agreement. And while, in parallel, we prepare to offer the best possible service to the citizenry. We are aware that the challenge is enormous and that we will have to make an extraordinary effort. It's not gonna be easy. But our goal is clear: to improve the mobility of Basque citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u141	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collect Group to the head physician of the Medical Department, the provisionalness of the Off-world plan on the 7th of the 7th century." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u142	Good noon, everyone. Sailburu andrea. In the general policy plenary, in paragraph 19, on stabilizing and expanding the Osakidetza workforce, the lehendakari said textually: "Osakidetza structural staffing expansion schedule in 3,000 new positions. The objective of all these initiatives is to reduce the temporality from 40% to less than 7%". He told us a half truth because with 3,000 places it is impossible to reach the goal of reducing the temporality to 7%. Unless he was referring to consolidating the empty seats of the staff officially approved by the Basque Government in the Council, which is 27,600 seats, and not of the real staff of Osakidetza working daily in Osakidetza. "Pero dentro de planilla de 270,000, que titene códigos, el personal que esta esos puestos no llega 20." "Y de sous 27.600 solo est in occupas 23.800." But every day, every day, every day, according to the month, 36,000 people are working. So, to begin with, the provisional is not 40 percent, at least 50 percent. And the measures which have been set up and foretold were eternal. And there wasn't a steady bet in our daily plan to flip the temporary one. For the most part, the new settlements are not 3,000, but 2100 at the beginning at 1200. And we argued here, because when we heard them horrible, they threw us out awful, and then the government went up at least to 2.100. The measures proposed in the whole meeting were long past, which responded to past needs; because the plan of human resources is 2014, because the process of stability is only determined from the 3.723 plates to produce new jobs, because in 2022, 2018 and 1918 we are doing OPEs. So, aside from the process of stabilization and running measures, what other measure will the Medical Department take of our daily planch in the Ostiform to bring down to 7%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u144	Mr. President of the Parliament, thank you. Partners. I think there are some things I can tell you. As is specified in the Basque program, the Medical Department used to increase and stabilize and stabilize the Osa World's Plant by making a phone call for $220 to 4000 jobs during the 2020-24 hours. This goal is almost complete; for the examinations of the second phase of the public offer in 2018-2019 will be made in November, December, and January. It's 1,924 squares. They're added to the first stages, and they're the total number of 3.233 squares. And only with that call would the compression of those 4,000 squares be almost full. But we're not going to give up on that... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... They are. And only by this appeal, the commitment to those 4,000 squares would be almost full. But we're not going to give up on that to make it better. On the other hand, in response to Law 20/2021 on Urgent Measures for the Reduction of Temporaryity in Public Employment, Osakidetza has approved the OPE, which articulates the stabilization processes in the public body, and comprises a total of 3,723 places. The corresponding staffing enlargement file is also being processed with a total of 2,109 new positions to be created, which will increase the maximum number of the structural staff in Osakidetza. And, in addition, another file of extension of squares, of about 350 new squares. All this, all this - and the whole must be contextualized - represents a radical change towards the stabilization of the current Osakidetza staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u146	There will be no radical change with the measures you've proposed, because once we're reduced to seven per cent. We're in Discount Time, Mrs. Apple. We need at least 5,000 jobs in stabilization processes. Especially 5,000 jobs to increase this officer, 27.600, for new codes, and especially for the daily plan. And those policies of opposition which you predict and those policies which you have in your power have very serious consequences. Look at the list of waiting, in the answers you've given us, waiting lists, we have 24,000 people on the wait list. And these policies of opposition have these consequences. They're waiting for the membership to be an operation, and the consequences are really serious. And we really need a revolution, a revolution in beautiful contractions. In the new Kodigos. On the planet's diary, the daily template needs to increase. And it's a very serious matter. See what's going on in the course of the evangelical evacuations, what's going on in your surgical heart lists. You're tearing apart the one that hits a high-term stroke to operate, and all that's not a coincidence. That's all because there's been a specific exchange for years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u148	Mrs. Ubera. As you always do, you always confuse things, or you always end them. And you confuse things with others so that they don't really understand what you're behind. I'll take your words. There must be over 5,000 jobs during the surveillance process. I told you there are. Don't confuse us with other matters. And you've already told me, the President has told you, he seems to have said here or there, it seems that we don't know where we're from and that we've forgotten. But I will go to your question. That's the question, isn't it? You know and, in fact, the president said that with the public offers plates, once from 40%, we'd arrange to make arrangements for the purpose of reducing to 7%. I'll remind you of today's situation in 2018 and 2019, here's how it is. 20/2021 Laws to stabilize 3723 Squares, approved and published. Reposition period 2020, 0.02 Square supported and published. Reposition period of 2021, supported and published by Place 2.273. The relocation of 2022, which is unacceptable, and will be above 1,600th square. These public offers total a total of 10,869 places. We are also considering the possibility of jointly convening three job offers, 2020, 2021 and 2022, to speed up the process. Processes that you don't forget are very complex. For the number of places, but the number of categories, for the number of candidates. Our will is clear, far above the commitments of the programme has been adopted, and with the aim of minimizing eventuality. In short, with the measures set out above and those which we will continue to implement, the Osakidetza staff accompanying the enlargement dossier will be specified in the study in order to determine the dossier which responds to the needs raised and ensures adequate health care. So we can conclude that we would arrive below that 8% that marks the temporality of Law 20/2021 of 28 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u149	Thank you. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interregation, made by Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a popular, a member of the Ciudadans to the chief assembly of equality, of justice, and of the police society, of the example of euscal prison. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Artolazabal. We submitted a request for an appearance in May this year in which we requested his presidency to explain the situation of the Basque prisons, of the prisons in Euskadi. We did it in May. As we see that time is passing and we have seen that the occupations of Parliament, the Commission, etc., etc., were not given the opportunity, for man, we have presented this question so that you have the opportunity to come here when it is one year precisely after the transfer of the personal and material means of competition, the transfer in prisons, to make an assessment of the situation. When the transfer took place, you were talking about a new Basque prison model being implemented. It does appear there in the manuals and in all the documents that you circulated in all sectors. That model was supposed to correct all the defects that the national model had at the time, or the state model as they usually say in their party, etc.... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... in all sectors. That model was supposed to correct all the defects that the national model had at the time, or state model, as they usually say in their party, etc. But what I'm wondering is what's new really brings that model that you say you're implementing. And, above all, wasn't your partner properly managing the prisons? That's what I asked myself at the time. Then I simply observed the situation and followed up and monitored all this parliamentary action. Of course, what they did very quickly, even a day before, was to rush to change the pressure sign, the sign, where the Basque Government shield was already on. That's phenomenal, but it's been a year, counselor, and the trouble is it's piled up. Besides, you recognize it yourself. Given the evidence of the situation that not all of the world's news reports in the ETB can hide, it has been throughout the summer and part of what we have been doing since September making all kinds of statements, interviews, etc., sending a message: that the transfer of prisons was a complex issue and that more time is needed. That was your message. Okay, the situation is wrong, you say more or less, between lines, the issue is complex and we need more time. You have achieved something new in the Basque prisons, Madam Councilwoman. And it is that the workers, the officials, make concentrations and manifest themselves. It has managed to bring trade unions into line with the most diverse of them. Indeed, it is the unions that come from sectors and have, say, totally different ideologies or approaches; all but one, of course. All but one, which was when it was a central service, and now it's an autonomous service because... Well, we'll see about the next election, but that's another problem. We're going to do a very brief review. First of all, the interns. What has been implemented by his Government is the transfer of prisoners from the ETA terrorist gang. You are anxious to say that, in fact, all transfers will be made in accordance with the law - man, only missing - and respecting the principle of equality. I ask you a question: how many inmates, who are not prisoners of ETA, of ordinary regime, that is, first and second degree, have been transferred to Euskadi in the last year? I repeat the question: how many prisoners have been transferred to Euskadi prisons in the past year, other than from ETA, first and second grade? How many? How many transfers have been rejected? I have already asked you a written parliamentary question about this. Of the prisoners, I told you in the first inquiry, of the prisoners who claim to be deep-rooted in Euskadi there was a significant number. I don't know if it's 900, if it's 400, if it's 500. A newspaper well informed of government issues – which undoubtedly its team, because its communications team did earn the salary well in its department – because it spoke, and I can tell you, about 300; that there had been about 300, perhaps 300 requests from people who had requested, from inmates who had requested to come to prisons in the Basque Country. How many have come? How many requests have actually been made? 300 said this newspaper, let's leave it in half, 150, for example. They have been rejected, on what criteria have these transfers been rejected? Lack of rooting? On what criteria is the lack of rooting alleged? Personal. Officers. You began by saying - I remember the question - that even staff would be gained, that the competition had taken place after an arduous negotiation in which, as always, we had obtained very favourable conditions. Between the transfer competition, the retirements that exist, the balance is being negative, you have recognized it yourself in an interview that you have given, even, I think, that this very morning. Why did he leave so many? Why do we think that officials who have been working for a number of years suddenly – because if they are going to have the same conditions and the same situation – suddenly leave and decide to leave. Why? He'll say, "No, it's people who were outside of Euskadi and so on." Well, what does that have to do with anything? If they came to work and do a service, why do we suddenly have the negative balance? How do we solve this? Well, man, you proposed a job bag. He's created a job bag to recruit, to select interims. The job bags are the magic remedy of the Basque Government which, by the way, now that we are in the opposite process of stabilization, (...) an OPE, well, agree. For a job bag claiming emergency, situation of a need quickly, etc. By the way, the interims who are always civil servants or are always public employees, who obviously do not have their place consolidated because, man, I understand that they are often quite more reluctant to perform the best actions that they can displease those who are their bosses. What criteria have been established for the implementation of these OPEs? Well, I've seen some strange things. For example, age criterion, 16 years. Man, 16 years to be a prison officer. Another criterion already, that this is curious, but is that this next criterion is the important one. Let's see. How much is the training going to be? Two weeks, ten days. In ten days, really. Can we train a prison officer in ten days? So little do we value the training and preparation that prison officials have had to follow? It also has, as I know, a number of collective claims for discriminatory treatment, which are said in the claims. I do not go in there, but it is true that it has a number of collective demands on the part of significant groups of officials who claim that the competitions and so on that their rights have been violated. I think the perception that workers can have is that it looks like you either don't trust them or trust little, or I don't know. Next point: the managers. He's been fired by a few managers. He was dismissed by a series of officials from the three Euskadi prisons. And all of a sudden we had breakfast... no, it's that there has been, rides, assembles your team, you don't, would be your team, an act, practically an act of accession there, I think it was in Martutene, where comes out one saying that "no, I'm not leaving, I'm staying". Okay. "I'll stay." He doesn't say what he's staying from, but he's staying. Man, the officials stay, the other thing is that they're changed places. But, well, there are a number of managers who have resigned, who have been resigning, and some of them, a very important one, a very important one, in an important position that is human resources, the organization, it seems to me that it has not yet been replaced. But, well. Moreover, there is no missed opportunity to create problems where there were none. Last one, the Merced party. The Merced party that's a recognition party. I don't know if the Mercedaria Sisters will think of this or the Bishop of Álava, but, well, it's secondary, but, of course, it's managed to anger everyone. It is a party at which, let's say, the work of the officials themselves was recognized. In this case, too, we have not missed the opportunity. Centers. Well, look, in the centers, I could explain a number of things. For example... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... I've lost my chance. Centers. Well, look, the centers, I could apply a number of things. For example, why we are spending public money, why so much is being spent, on works and investments in a centre that is going to be amortized in a year, which is Martutene. There we have workshops, we have classes for hairdressing courses, unit of mothers, even. All this in a center that, as I understand it, is going to close, isn't it, Martutene? In Martutene there is little more..., I don't know exactly how many there are, if there are 12 women or if there are 20; 12, 20 women. The vast majority of women are in Álava, why is the mother unit not made in Álava?, why has this mother unit been built in Martutene – which is a prison that is about to be amortized – and not in Álava, where the vast majority of internal women are located? The trade unions have also denounced serious computer failures affecting the proper functioning of the centres: problems with software and the computer system, I think this is a very serious matter. I believe that this is a tremendously serious question, and that it deserves, of course, interest, but above all, what it deserves is the need not only for an answer from you in an act of control here, Counsellor. I believe that the important thing is to carry out the necessary actions for this to be avoided. He has had all the means at his disposal: personal means, economic means, all the means at his disposal. And yet, the competition of prisons since it has been exercised by its department has only moved a number of problems that were previously non-existent. Previously there were three prisons with a series of officials, and there was apparently no problem there. Suddenly, the Basque Government appears, suddenly its department appears, and the problems only accumulate. That is why, counselor, I am going to listen with great interest to your reply and your answer, because I really want to know what you intend to do with all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u151	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u152	All good days, ma'am, chief physician, members of the legislature. Thank you, Mr Gordillo, for first giving me the opportunity to explain the progress that we have made in implementing the development of the Basque prison model in this first year of transfer. Man, what surprises me is that you're the spokesperson for some media in this rostrum. But, well, I am aware that you do not share our model, but it cannot be forgotten that this model has emerged from the consensus of the vast majority of the groups in this Parliament. We knew that there were media and party interests that were going to put sticks on the wheels of this work, and unfortunately, we were not wrong, and moreover, I am sorry. Interested critics, lies and manipulations, which have marked destructive criticisms of our work. And they will not divert us from the road map marked by this Parliament. Just a year ago we began to travel a path that we knew was long and complex, and it was also exciting, and we saw it as an opportunity. This year we've had to do a lot of things, even though you don't think we've done anything. On the contrary, we have retreated, according to you. We were already working since the end of 2020 when we had the first meetings with (?), who have also criticized some of the unions that you..., or those that you also do as a spokesman, relying on very limited information about the situation of prisons in Euskadi in order to be able to put on the table the model and what we wanted to continue to do. We have started with difficulties such as the situation of much of the infrastructure or the size of the staff. We have faced difficulties arising from the evolution of the pandemic, which also limited activities in these centres. And some initiatives have not had an external projection, but they were essential and unreplaceable. And I assure you that we have formed a highly qualified, committed and experienced team. I will not detail the extensive list of initiatives launched in just a year, such as the new Labour Integration Agency, Aukerak. I would like you to have more accurate data from now on in order to be able to comment on the work of this first year of transfer, and after the interpellation, I will give you the dossier memory that we have developed in relation to all the activity that we have been implementing in these 12 months. In this memory you will see that other ambitious actions with external projection have begun to be implemented. For example, the extension of the enforcement of sentences in semi-freedom regimes, which is one of the things that favors persons deprived of their liberty, who serve sentences in Basque prisons, because it is our model, Mr Gordillo. Four hundred and fifty-seven degrees, third degrees, which are already close to the 40% target we have set ourselves. Open service is a way of carrying punishment. The object set on individual treatment requires execution, and requires control, continuity, and evaluation. Investigations prove that this regime facilitates society, and the recommendations of Europe and the United Nations promote the third degree. I want to make it clear that the open regime is a form of enforcement of sentences, and that it does not at all mean release from prison. Third-degrees imply the need to follow the objectives set out in an individual treatment plan, and require monitoring, monitoring and evaluation. The studies confirm that they favour reintegration and non-recidivism, and I would like to stress that the European and United Nations recommendations agree to favour third-degrees. In order to implement all of these recommendations, we have created a network of foster homes for inmates on semi-freedom or leave, who do not have housing resources, and that is another issue that persons deprived of their liberty can benefit from when serving their sentence. We also accepted the strategy of Reservative Justice. For the next few months, there will be an age-store for victims and victims separated from voluntaryity and discretion. We've also approved the restorative justice strategy... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... separate from each other, always from voluntaryness and (... from. We have also approved the Restorative Justice strategy. In the coming months, the provision of restorative workshops for victims and victims separately will be encouraged, always from voluntary and discretionary, and without setting itself as a priority objective to promote the existence of these restorative encounters. In this balance sheet, I would also like to highlight the improvement in coordination with other Departments, especially with Osakidetza, detecting new areas of improvement that focus on the mental health of the prison population. For example, a new suicide prevention programme has been launched at the Arab Prison, which will be extended to the rest of the prisons. Work is under way to create a specific resource for people with severe and incurable illnesses without housing resources to access semi-freedom. The Community dimension of our model requires the effective participation of the third social sector. We believe in public-social cooperation, which has nothing to do with the outsourcing of services, as some very minority union in the Basque prison sector has wrongly denounced. We maintain a permanent relationship with all entities involved in programs, activities, inside and outside the prison. A biannual grant programme is under way to promote programmes and activities for Community resocialisation, with a budget of EUR 6,200,000. Work and training in prisons have been promoted. This has favored persons deprived of their liberty to have that opportunity to integrate once the sentence has been served in society, and they do not re-offend. Aukerak has employed 331 people directly, and has signed partnership agreements with 9 external companies, employing 150 people, increasing the number of places available to carry out work by more than 40%. Remuneration has also improved significantly, increasing wages by 5%. There is a correct and fluid relationship with the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions. This relationship is necessary for the coordination and transfers in the computer and statistical systems, and in the follow-up of the works of Zubieta. In addition, the optimal and maximum places for serving sentences in Basque prisons during this transit period have also been agreed jointly. By making a brief review, apart from the above-mentioned issues, we are working on others, such as a master plan for information systems; a strategic plan for prison infrastructure; the creation of prison administration bodies and scales; the increase of places in paid auxiliary destinations for inmates and interns; assistance to prisoners and family members, and to encourage participation in courses; coordination with the Department of Education, Lanbide, Aukerak, to increase the educational and training supply of the penal population; formalizing agreements on university studies with the three universities and prisons; strengthening services to support the management of sentences in the community; building the restorative justice forum; approving the regulatory decree of the Francisco Javier Gómez Elóségui Prize for work and research in prison matters. And, to do this work, we have collaborated with different agents: from the judiciary, from the Office of the Prosecutor, from the entities of the third sector, from the different departments. We did a working day last Monday, from which new lines of improvement emerged. We listen to people deprived of their liberty. We had a broad consensus on the goodness of the prison model and the firm steps taken in this first year. Because we have an agreement, a broad parliamentary agreement from which you are self-excluded. Because we also enjoy broad consensus in the legal, judicial and social environment. And, I repeat, because our model that aspires is to humanize prisons. A model based on public responsibility and social cooperation. A model that believes in the resocializing potential of serving sentences in the community. A model that incorporates the perspective of victims, through restorative justice. And this model will need time and means for its start-up. And I want to use this intervention to enhance the professionalism of our prison staff: prison officials. They are an essential asset that shows permanent commitment to the proper functioning of the centres, and are on the front line to temper the problems that have arisen in the day-to-day life and to act with measure and firmness in any incident. We have the duty and the will to improve living and working conditions in our centres, and to overcome the lack of staff in the centres. And we're on it, Mr. Gordillo. I would like to highlight the critical collaboration and agreements reached with the majority union among prison staff. Majority, and if not, you go to the polls and see what is the support of each of the trade union centres. We will continue to seek consensus with Acaip-UGT, and reach out to the other trade union organizations so that we can extend those agreements. This topic is wide in attendance, and in the second round I will continue to give you information.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u153	Thank you, chief physician. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u154	Of course, counselor, the subject is broad. And it is a pity that I was unable to appear in Parliament, I say in committee, because I believe that we would have time to develop a number of additional issues there. But I want to insist on one thing. I think it's great that the prison model... not the Basque model, the general model, that of all Spain, including the Catalan model... seek the humanization of prisons. What's the matter, that the socialist administration doesn't want human prisons? I also agree that there is, as far as possible, a system that allows the progression of grades to the third degree, and regimes in which they are allowed to leave the centres. What's going on? Doesn't the socialist administration want that either? Man, then, of course I do. And, on the other hand, you are noting here as a point in favour of increasing grade progressions, when, on the other hand, the grade progressions that propose them are the treatment boards, which are made up of officials. You simply do what you do is ratify the decision of the Treatment Board. That he has already said on some occasion: "We simply ratify the decisions of the treatment boards". Which are the same officials who were previously working in prisons, depending on the... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... Treatment Board. That I have already said on some occasion, we simply ratify the decisions of the treatment boards, which are the same officials who were previously working in prisons depending on the central administration and whom now - I don't know why - I think you don't consider them part of the administration itself in any way. I think there's something there. You, above all, set the criterion of complexity. Let's see. Complex why? I heard her say it and read her say it because there was no reference model. What do you mean, there wasn't a reference model? Two: the national or state model, as you like to say, and that of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which has been managing prisons since the year 83. Of course. But, besides, when they have to do things, what they do is make a sticky copy of the state model manuals, the national model, which is what they do at the end of the day. In the instruction, for example, of 1 October 2021, what they have done is a sticky copy of the national instructions. I mean, what is the Basque model to make a sticky copy of the instructions and the national manuals? Look, I've been through a plagiarism detection program the text of the 2021 instruction. Look, here are the matches marked in red. As you can see, it almost coincides. Of course you had a model to follow, of course you had a model to follow. As far as computers are concerned, he hasn't answered anything. But, anyway, he says he's already going to do things, he needs time, and so on. They are using the software and systems provided by the central administration. They've had a year, later the previous six months or the time they would have had, to negotiate it. And what I hear is – because the representatives of the workers have said it publicly, those who you do not like apparently – what I have heard is that they are giving a lot of trouble. That's a very worrying thing. It's a very worrying thing. Equipment. You have, you have had all the advisors of the world at your disposal. He also has two managers who have been deputy treatment directors, who know perfectly well, who have been in the prison administration for more than 20 years. Complexity? Didn't these advisors warn you of the complexity? Maybe... Your team says it's excellent, because man, perhaps, what can fail is the direction. There's nothing new. There's nothing new. You had all the means at your disposal. It has come to this Parliament to approve the Aukerak Act, which you could perfectly have made a partnership agreement with prison work, through the urgent procedure. Perfectly. He undertook to make an autonomous body run at all, run at all, without debate, run at all, and was approved. He's had everything at his disposal. Indeed, you have six million, there are six million available to carry out a series of actions in which the third sector will participate. Well, that's great, but he's had all the money. What I do not understand is with all the means at your disposal, with all the advisers you have had at your disposal, how we may be in this situation. The situation has been characterized by trade unions, etc., as chaos. I don't come here, counselor, to ask you to resign today. I want you to fix this problem. Fix is the problem. Fix this problem because the situation in Basque prisons is that it is not good, it is a real chaos, counselor. It's real chaos. What I'm asking you to do, please, is to put order in Basque prisons as soon as possible, because in this we really leave a lot. I will listen to you with interest, once again, your reply, but, I insist, you really have to fix this; and you have to fix it, because it is inheritance, whatever it is called to higher responsibilities and leave this office, it is inheritance that will leave you to your successor. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u155	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u156	I, Mr Gordillo, have not been able to appear before in committee because there have been no dates. I mean, I always have the will to share all the information with the whole House and with all the representatives of the political parties. And, of course, if you know me a little, you know I'm pretty transparent. If we have not had the opportunity to discuss it earlier, we will certainly be able to do so shortly. Moreover, because it seems to me that the issue is important and because it deserves more time than the 15 minutes in which you and I can disagree, discuss, share arguments. Therefore, I will try in some way to refute or give you my explanations that I have not been able to explain in the ten minutes before what is the situation in which the Basque prison system currently finds itself. Neither chaos nor incapacity nor anything. That's what you say, Mr. Gordillo. I believe that everything can be improved, that the bottle can be seen half full, half empty, but I sincerely believe that the situation of the people living in the Basque prisons, today, after a year of transfer, and the staff of the prison officials working in our prisons are clearly better. Prison officials are officials of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community. Therefore, they are just as civil servants as any of those who are in Lakua, in any school, in the palaces of justice, and they are civil servants whom I have already valued in the first round of their work; because they are great professionals, because they are in a complicated situation, because we have had an inheritance that is the one. I was saying it this morning on the radio: if my father leaves me a 100 million inheritance, I'll be happy, but if he leaves me 100,000 pesetas, I won't be so happy anymore. And with the 100,000 pesetas we've had to start working, Mr. Gordillo. 82% of the places are occupied in prisons; in Zaballa, more than 86% of the places are occupied. Therefore, it is true that we have a situation of places. There has not been a breakdown, because only five people in the transfer competition, the deficit was five people. And if there has been at this time a decrease in the staffing has been due to the retirements that have occurred in the staffing. To solve this problem, Mr Gordillo, and to be able to continue to give quality and to improve, if possible, the quality that was being given in the Basque prisons, what we did was to create a bag; a bag that at first was what the unions asked us to do, which then changed their minds and no longer seemed so good, and which is what... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... What we did was create a bag. A bag that at first was what the unions asked of us, which then changed their minds and no longer seemed so good. And that is the one that will temporarily be able to meet the needs we have until an OPE is convened. And you know what are the (...) that is called, because you know perfectly well the right much better than I do. And you know that we have to make an assessment of jobs, that we have to make an RPT, that we have to create bodies and scales, and that we will then convene the OPE, Mr Gordillo. And then don't say or cheat in solitary. Look, UGT said you'd have to ask ELA and Commissions why they don't give true information. Where the first thing is done in any Autonomous Community, is the establishment of the corporate structure, fixing of RPT, valuation of jobs. And this has some deadlines. And it's just that we're trying to do it as soon as possible. Because they lie blatantly, that I do not say so, that these gentlemen say so, Mr. Gordillo. Because they say that daytime extensions when they're talking, that they're mandatory. They're not mandatory, they're voluntary. During the transitional period, the fixed amounts to be collected were being collected. I therefore believe that we need to be rigorous when it comes to, on such an important issue as that, in prison policies, which you also know perfectly well what the additional connotations to what is the pure and harsh management of a prison have associated in Euskadi; I think we need to be more rigorous. 800 people living in this autonomous community find it attractive to be able to work in one in a Basque prison. It is the people who have pointed out so that in this first phase we can form on the basis of what the experts have indicated to us as a necessary and sufficient training, so that we can continue to carry out the work in a temporary way in the Basque prisons. And then the differences in pay. I will tell you about this in the Commission. They don't exist. The people who came in February, came knowing under what conditions they were coming. And we've done nothing but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Interpology, the Julian Society of Carmulus Barroja, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of the United States of equality, justice, and society of the Police, in reference to the persecution against the Border, and the expressions of hatred in our streets and villages, to consider the defence of government as a strategy. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President, good morning to all and all, advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to extend much in the justification of this inquiry, because what interests me very much is your answer. We, my group, the People-Citizens Group, are going to question how to move forward in coexistence, which must be one of the central axes of this Government and of any Government - especially at this time of international instability. Well, let's strengthen or try to play our part in our own coexistence, which will always be moving forward. And how can this be done from the power of the Basque Government in its strategies, in its proposals, in its actions? Yesterday we had an interesting debate, surely following it. A non-legislative proposal on the sentencing of an assault on an ertzaine. From these debates we have had several, this debate on freedom is repeated, on the situation of insecurity, on the lack of coexistence, on the hatred that is repeated every time in this Parliament, around these expressions of intolerance that are reproduced. And about the value of the majority and strong position of this society, also of this Parliament, in assessing the gravity of these facts, and how they are projected against our coexistence, and how they should be condemned when they are played, and when they are so - and most of them are done by this society. Attacks and harassment of ertzainas, attacks on young party activists, tributes to terrorists with the presence of minors. Posters and paintings on our streets, on our parties, anagrams of ETA in festive venues, acts against the forces and security bodies of the state. For this reason and in view of the repetition of these expressions of hatred, we want to know what the Government is going to do to address the problem. That's the question, well, the general question. But why? Because we have a base, too. It is important to contemplate the Udaberri 2024 Plan, a plan of the Basque Government, a plan of coexistence of human rights and diversity, if I don't remember his name, and that is a four-year strategy. A four-year strategy, because it is a continuation of other previous strategies. And now it's two years, and it seems necessary, because of the situation we live in, it's fulfilled... It seems necessary to implement actions in this plan, which already exist, to implement some of those which already exist, which seem insufficient in relation to what is happening. And we said that majority position of this Parliament, but that majority position of this society against intolerance, against violent attitudes, against the culture of hatred, we understand that it has to have a continuous reflection. And a more demanding reflection on the government's strategy, even more demanding. I think that's very important. And in the reaffirmation of these outstanding subjects that describes the text of the Udaberri Plan for Co-existence and Human Rights. These outstanding subjects are reflected: the social construction of a complete, shared memory, based on the principles of truth and justice; on a critical reflection of the past, a critical reflection that particularly challenges ETA and its political universe - it is a very important expression of the outstanding subjects that we have in the Plan of the Basque Government - or the creation of meeting spaces that strengthen the culture of coexistence. I believe that even more issues need to be added, and we see that the outstanding subjects are more pending than ever, but that more efforts would be needed, we understand that in that plan. We know that there is another subject pending. It is this political sector, of course, which is the Abertzale Left, and on which, well, we must also press politically. And it must also do so as a democratic government in relation to the issues that fail in this society. The plan also speaks of... seeing a hopeful look into the future of coexistence, but look at that look... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... the plan also speaks of..., seeing a hopeful look in the future of coexistence, but sees that this hopeful look becomes a concerned look at various expressions of violence, intolerance, sectarianism that still emerge in our environment, and lately more and more again: painted, threats, physical and verbal aggressions, attacks on the ertzaine, well, what we were commenting, ongi etorris. Well, it's that culture that's getting worse. And reaffirm the radical political and social delegitimization of the culture of violence as a strategy for political action. Well, that's where we want to focus, counselor. That's where we want to focus. Because those issues today... What comes in the Udaberri Plan in relation to deepening the culture of coexistence and neutralizing those expressions of hatred, those expressions of intolerance, those violent expressions, because I believe that the actions that come in the plan may be insufficient, are insufficient. And we understand that there must be a greater effort on the part of the Basque Government. That is why our question of what purpose does the Basque Government have in the development of the aforementioned strategy to strengthen our coexistence in the face of the attacks and harassment suffered, in this case, by officers of the Basque Autonomous Police? Let us remember that this inquiry was drafted there at the end of July of the same year and that it also focuses on the expressions of intolerance that we have in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u159	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u160	Mrs. head of the table, thank you. Mr. Barrio, I think you can imagine at least part of my response to your inquiry. And I tell you more, I believe that basically and fundamentally we will agree. Kondena, kondena erradikala, aringarririk gabeko kondena. Kondena nahi dituzun adjectibo guztiekin. Condemns harassment and attacks on members of the Ertzaintza. A sentence as strong as yesterday's in this Parliament with absences that have no justification. Condemns assaults and insults for thinking differently. It condemns the occupation of public space that took place in some municipalities during the holidays this summer. It condemns the occupation of public space in the form of posters, banners, painted that go beyond what can be freedom of expression, which also needs to be protected. On too many occasions this occupation of public space has transcended the exercise of this right and has become an exaltation and advocacy of violence and humiliation to the victims. And it also condemns a scene such as that carried out in Bermeo, which transfers us to preterite images that we thought were already happily overtaken. Because honoring the dead, all the dead, is a civic duty. But cultivating violence is an ethical and democratic outburst. And I repeat, Mr Barrio, condemnation, condemnation, and radical condemnation, and condemnation without palliatives. I've always told him. And we've always said that from the government. I regret that not all groups in this House are yet involved in this condemnation. And how to avoid it? The question is simple, but the answer is complex to give. There's no magic wand, we don't have easy solutions. But I have no doubt that our system and its instruments are aimed at guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all and the security of all. I have no doubt that our order and the instruments that in the... from which he derives also have as objective to shortcut (behaviours?) anti-democratic, totalitarian and punishable. And I am sure that the Ertzaintza and the judiciary act according to these basic principles of the rule of law, as it cannot be otherwise. Alongside this performance, and not as an alternative, I dare to put on the table other ways as well. The path of political and social reprobation, the path of political and social delegitimization. Those who are the protagonists of events as intolerable as those that have happened this summer and that we are dealing with today must feel that they are a residual and marginal minority. Protagonistek beren methodok gizarte demokratiko batekin bataraezinak tell her felt behar duet. Its protagonists must be aware that political parties, trade unions, social organizations, cultural actors and the media will face common challenges against intolerance. And a third way, the path of education and democratic culture. Our alternative is to bet as a society on a model of coexistence based on ethical and democratic principles and values. The path of democratic culture means the radical delegitimization of terrorism and political violence. Educational life is critical memory of our recent unjust past, recognition and accompaniment to the victims, to all the victims, Mr Barrio. This path implies the dignity of the person, the defence, the guarantee and promotion of human rights, political pluralism, respect and dialogue with those who think differently. Hezkuntzaren eta kultura demokratikoaren bideak berekin dakar aniztasun balio gisa onartzea. The path of education and democratic culture brings with it the assumption of diversity as a value. And this is our way, Mr. Barrio. Pentsatu nahi du hori de la Parlamentu Honen Eta Bertan Ordezkatuta dadene tante polikoen bidea. And I summarize this approach. Guaranteeing the rights and freedoms and security of all, reprobating and delegitimizing political and social totalitarian and non-democratic behaviours and committed to education and democratic culture. And this path in this legislature has a road map - you pointed out -: the Plan of Coexistence, Human Rights and Diversity Udaberri 2024. A plan that goes far beyond theory and rhetoric. A plan that, apart from its poetic name, does not speak of birds and flowers. This plan goes far beyond goodism and mere declaration of intent. Gure planak ekintza lerroak, proposamenak, ekimenak ditu. As you well know, the plan is articulated in three agendas: the Basque Agenda for Co-existence, the Global Agenda for Human Rights and the Basque Agenda for Diversity. Three agendas that incorporate... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... in three agendas: the Basque Agenda for Co-existence, the Global Agenda for Human Rights and the Basque Agenda for Diversity. Three agendas incorporating 16 action lines and 70 actions. And maybe, right now, I'm thinking, "Well, good. But I want... Human rights is fine, diversity is fine, but what I'm asking you...", what you ask me has to do with strategy and purposes to strengthen coexistence. Well, then, although coexistence, human rights and diversity for us are concepts that cannot be dissociated, because they are intimately related, I am going to focus on the Basque Agenda for coexistence and on its strategy and its purposes. And let me remind you of the axes of our strategy and of the Basque Agenda for Co-existence: the legal, institutional, social and moral recognition of the victims; secondly, the critical reflection on the past; thirdly, a prison policy as active for co-existence; and finally, a shared horizon, a space for meeting. You said it. The development of these axes involves advancing and consolidating policies for the recognition and reparation of victims of terrorism and political violence. And it is not necessary to remember that I refer to victims in general; to the maximum expression, to the greatest, to the broadest expression of what victim means. Victims of ETA terrorism, victims of LAG terrorism, extreme right-wing terrorism and victims of torture and illegal police violence. And these axes encourage open memory, inclusive, ethical, critical memory, and develop the Euscal prison model based on the principles of social society. And as I said, these axes also involve fostering an open, inclusive, critical and ethical memory. Develop a Basque prison model based on the principles of reintegration and resocialization. And in the face of spaces of intolerance, these axes try to promote initiatives and meeting spaces that favor a culture of coexistence. And, well, just thank him, Mr. Barrio. Because I am sure you share the same fund, and I hope that also the alternatives or convictions that motivate my response.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u162	Thank you, President. Counselor, I thank you for the answer. Indeed, coexistence is an important factor, as envisaged by the Udaberri 2024 plan, but I believe that insufficiently in the work that the Government has to do. But understand me that it is true that I share what you have said. I think we have to work, we have to do it in many areas, we have to do it. Cohabitation needs much more political action. That has been demonstrated in this country, it is being demonstrated in this country, it needs more political action. I want to tell you that data from the observatory of the radicalization of COVITE have said that in 2022 it is in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa 379 performances that demonstrate this lack of coexistence. Many of these expressions of the culture of hate, right?, ongitorris, tributes to the deceased of ETA, painted and banners. Let us not say a series of regrettable expressions that we have seen in the recent Gudari Eguna. That is to say, these issues are multiplying, Counsellor, in relation, for example, to 2021, which was 219 proceedings. We're in 379 and it's not over the year yet. And much more than in previous years, I don't tell you the year 2020, years 2019, 2018. Day by day we analyze these events that take place in our historical territories. This observatory also does so elsewhere, in Navarre or in the French Basque Country. And they are on the increase, and that must concern us and the Basque Government. Because we are going to go a little bit into the actions of the Udaberri Plan, counselor, and above all in that line of action 6: to promote initiatives and meeting spaces that favor the culture of coexistence. At this point, that area of action, that line of action 6, is short. With two shares, that's all. One... plus, just for the year 2021 and 2022. I mean, is there not going to be a line of action on 23 and 24 in relation to developing the process of reflection, debate, youth, coexistence, future? (...) For that ends this year. No, you have to follow the timetable of the Basque Government, you put it, I have it in front of you. Or creating graphic artistic elements, symbols of principles and values that sustain coexistence. Well, it's not bad, but things are missing. It can't be just those two actions. There must be more action in relation to what is needed. I mean, that's what you said, how we channel it politically, that social reprobation. It's very good what he told us. For what he has told us as a political element, as a political discourse, has to be part of the actions as well. A social reprobation has to be channelled into the plan by the Government as well. That is to say, I call on you to examine this enlargement, of course, of actions, of actions, in this case. As there should be in this regard, a new action to defend the work of Ertzaintza. There should be an action in the Udaberri Plan as well. Ertzaintza is the factor of coexistence in this country, a factor of order, of which we respect ourselves, of deepening the rules of democratic play. Well, there should be. There was already in its time, in the Basque Government's plan of coexistence, in previous plans of coexistence, something that spoke of Ertzaintza. But he talked about Ertzaintza to tell him that he had to train in human rights. Well, then completed that training. At the moment what needs to be done is a new action to defend in this plan too, in that social response that we must build among all, which is the role of Ertzaintza at the moment. That is why I believe that there must be that search for social complicity, of course, in neutralizing speech and the practice of hatred in our cities and streets. And that has to work fundamentally... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... of course, in neutralizing the discourse and practice of hatred in our cities and streets.And that has to be done fundamentally today, as leadership, by the Basque Government. I don't know if it's going to have to be through campaigns, it's going to be campaigns, it's going to be institutional messages, it's going to be educational activities. I'm sure it is, but there has to be more specificity. There must be, at the moment, Mrs. Counsellor - and I ask you to reflect on this - more forcefully on the work done by the Basque Government, because we miss a higher than black-to-white demand capacity, we have to see it reflected in the instruments and strategies of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u163	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u164	In my first speech, Mr Barrio, I think I have been very clear: I condemn all the attacks that anyone in this country suffers from thinking like her; I condemn the harassment and the attack on the members of the Ertzaintza. I believe that this Government has promoted and will continue to promote initiatives to guarantee those rights and freedoms. And he emphasized to them that also in Plan Udaberri 2024 they were not birds and flowers. I do not have the timetable for the development of all initiatives right now, but I have no doubt that we will continue to drive all those that appear there and all those that are necessary. They were asking me what we've done, what we're doing, what we're going to do to promote this coexistence. And well, I'm going to move some of the issues that we've already done and that we're going to continue to do. We will continue to work within the Basque Council for the Participation of Victims of Terrorism and develop its document, steps to take on the recognition and reparation of victims of terrorism. And, without going any further, on the 16th of this month, we held a summer course on the right of participation of the victims of terrorism in which some of the Members of this House took part. Last December, we delivered in a public act the first notebooks of memory, recognition and memory of the victims of ETA in cases of incomplete clarification. The second handover of the notebooks is under preparation. We prepare and present the report on the injustice suffered by persons belonging to the State security forces and bodies, as well as their families, as a result of ETA terrorism. And at this very moment, we are in the process of drawing up the report on injustice suffered by prison officials. On 20 October last, and on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the declaration of the definitive cessation of ETA - well, of the definitive cessation of armed activity - we celebrated an act in memory of the victims. We participated in the events commemorating the 25th anniversary of the kidnapping and murder of Miguel Ángel Blanco. 101 opinions and resolutions have been submitted within the framework of the Assessment Commission on Victims of Human Rights Violations and Other Unfair Sufferings produced in a context of politically motivated violence such as the development of Law 12/ 2016. On 26 June 2021, at the Euskalduna Palace in Bilbao, and on 27 February 2022, in Orbaizeta, both public events were held to deliver these opinions and resolutions. On 21 June, the Governing Council adopted a statement on the occasion of the International Day in Support of Victims of Torture. We have continued to promote the Adi-Adian programme of educational victims. It was said at first, to educate in values, democratic culture. During the course 2021-2022, 44 sessions were held in 19 educational centres. Since 2014, the date of its launch, 27,637 students from Basque educational institutions have participated in the program. And since 2018, the three Basque universities have hosted 90 sessions: education for the delegitimization of terrorism and violence, education for coexistence and education in ethical and democratic values. We have approved the Gogora 2021-2024 action plan. And the execution of Gogora's exhibition space is about to be auctioned out; a space about the experiences of terrorism and the political violence that Euskadi has suffered in his recent history, with a special focus on the testimony of the victims. A memory space for coexistence, Mr. Barrio. On Memory Day 2021 we dedicated it to recognizing the work of social movements in delegitimizing violence and terrorism. We have signed a partnership agreement with the Government of Navarre on human rights, memory and coexistence. And within the framework of the EITB Gogora convention there have been a total of eight documentaries in the series Memoria Eraikiz. The project of shared bases for the social construction of memory in Euskadi is at an advanced stage. Finally, we have promoted the process of reflection and debate "Youth, coexistence and future", a process that is currently under development. This is our contribution to coexistence. All initiatives that we can implement and implement in favour of that coexistence, welcome be, Mr Barrio, because this is our road map for a path that I am sure you and I share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-30.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. I look like an entire meeting is over since we've exhausted the list of subjects. The meeting ended at two-thirty in the afternoon.
