ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u0	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that two members of the legislature have already adopted their vote. First point in theme list: "In the case of Podemos-Nodemus, the bill of law made by the parliamentary team, the rights of sex and reproductions of Eucharistic sex and reproduction. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, and we're just going to argue. On the side... Does someone else want to be a partie on the side shift? No. Somebody on the counter shift? Okay. So together Podemos Nozzer has the word of the woman of hate who represents the Anxiety.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Even to the upper and lower. It is here, in this parliament, to introduce the rights of sexual and reproductive rights. Why did we go to work on a law like that? Well, we've long ago believed in ourselves that the time has come when the rights to people's sex and reproductions have come to be introduced into the public diary, to make deep discussions and reflections. It's time, on the one hand, for light. In a reality that is so important to our life, it is always in darkness. The rights are forgotten, the visible, the stigmatized; with which the silence, the occultism, the rights are subject to the weight of a narrow morality. Even because they're rights to be placed on a second level. For these rights are principally connected with women, and often seem often to be childish, often to be regarded as those of our own, and to the necessity of our own. So we want to change that frame. We want to change, we think we need to change. And therefore we have proposed this law, this proposition of the law, which has a very clear starting-point: That the health of sex and reproduction must be a visible view of feminist and intersecrational, and that the agenda of sexual and fertile rights requires a change of paradigm. To keep the bars, stereotypes, dissectings, and remunerations, and universal access to them that endure. What do we talk about when we talk about sexual and reproductive rights? Well, we talk, for example, about having access to comprehensive sex education throughout our lives. An education that also teaches us to claim pleasure, the enjoyment of sexuality from a wellness paradigm. We are talking about the right to receive simple and clear information about contraception, for example. We also talk about prevention, early detection of endometriosis, cervical cancer... We also talk about being able to decide when and how many children we want to have or also if we don't want to have them. We talk about having the right to a respected birth and the subsequent care that guarantees breastfeeding and all the necessary care for babies. We are talking about ensuring care for the perinatal mourning that accompanies families in these processes. We speak of the right not to be medicine the battlefield in which recognition of our identity or sexual orientation is directed. And we also speak of course that we have the right not to suffer sexual violence and nor institutional violence derived from practices that scientific evidence considers to be... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... the right not to suffer sexual violence or institutional violence arising from practices that scientific evidence considers unnecessary for our bodies. That is, we are talking about complex rights, complex rights that affect various parts of our lives. In fact, the United Nations, when it refers to the sexual and reproductive rights of women, relates it to various rights. It relates to the right to life, the right to liberty, the right to free development of personality, the right to physical and moral integrity, and personal and family privacy, the right to health, the right to education, and of course also the right to the prohibition of discrimination. In short, they are human rights with multiple vertices, multiple elements, which every country that claims to be democratic must guarantee and protect. And they are also and must be recognized, they are human rights that are feminist rights, because progress in sexual and reproductive health is synonymous with progress in the autonomy and empowerment of women and with them of all people. Not in vain, sexual and reproductive health has been a historical claim, a historical and continuous demand of the feminist movement. And to this day these demands are still very present. In the international context, we can only recall the realities, harsh realities and violations of rights that we were told a few weeks ago, in September, by experts and parliamentarians from various countries in the parliamentary dialogue that we had here at our headquarters. Nor... should we also bear in mind the international debate on abortion that is taking place today. On the one hand we are in retrograde winds, as in the United States; and on the other hand we are also seeing in the international context progress, as is the case with Argentina, Chile or Colombia. And even in our own time, these rights are subject to discussion, even in our own part, a continual proclamation of these rights. From the trial of the 11 women of the wildest, in August, in the clinical Liberation of Donostia. We, too, have started this legislation in the beginning. Our team brought him here to discuss the mentrual poverty. And all this, we want to keep going. And this proposal today demands this attitude, I say to continue, because there is no specific legislation now about it, no state, no autonomical. Through this law we sought to reveal and to treat gaps morally. I'd like to talk about the trial, to get to what we've continued to do. First, we entered a stage of diagnosis, from which we could draw conclusions, and in an articulate text of the law of writing them or of writing them. It's been a very intense process since the beginning of this process, but it's been almost a year, and we've always had help in this process-always to know a person... I should like to give you some particular attention, and his name." Violeta Assiego Cruz, Tania Sordo Ruz and our Ana González Brigangas were behind it every day. Thanks to the three of them. During this Diagnosis work, we met with a lot of people, professionals, experts, and a lot of organizations, including the − State and Euscadian. Some have been introduced up here today, others know they're following today's session telematically. All of them, thank you very much too. From this Diagnosis several data had been produced. (... ) They have with the difficulty of cancer detection, with the care of the embryo, with the manopause, with any protocols, with the mentrual poverty. There was also the gyro-obstretic force. The fact is, there was a very clear result of this diagnosis. On the one hand, to promote the rights of sex and reproduction, and to consider that neither in our institutions nor in our political agenda is superior. One thing more, one consequence: that data and information are missing. It is not possible to know whether services and resources are now effective or accessible to many collective ones. And then, what's the right to have it if it's not after... if he does not know it, he cannot appeal to service. We inferred from this diagnosis that these rights are only considered as pathological, and other dimensions are left on the other side. And generally, interview... of all the interviews and crews we formed a conclusion, shared, shared by all: that a law was necessary. It took a rule to name it and develop it all. So from that point we wrote the law. What do we gather in this law? Well, first of all, in this law we have provided for measures aimed at ensuring and providing adequate care for sexual health and well-being. For this we have proposed... We included the establishment of sexual and reproductive health centres. Our intention is that these centres should be one of the fundamental pillars of the rights guarantee system... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...sexual and reproductive. Our intention is that these centres should be one of the fundamental pillars of the system of guaranteeing rights, the reference points for information and for the comprehensive and standardized care of the sexual and reproductive health of all persons. These centers would have multidisciplinary teams composed of professionals of psychology, sexology, medicine in the specialty of obstetrics and gynecology, and technical staff of auxiliary nursing care and midwives. And in parallel with these services and services that are mandatory to perform in these centers we have also strengthened access to and access to effective contraception services and programmes within the public health system. And also prevention, early detection and proper treatment of sexually transmitted infections, such as HIV or HPV, through the provision of testing and vaccination. Secondly, and following the path initiated in this legislature by our group, as I mentioned earlier, we also wanted to insist on concrete measures in the area of menstrual health and well-being, because the monthly cycle plays a leading role in the lives of women and menstruating people, and their care must be adequately attended to by the health system. But access to sexual health must also look at the vital stages following menstruation, and ensure once and for all adequate attention to menopause. Along with strict health care, menstrual well-being can only be a reality if we tackle menstrual poverty, and for this we have established the mandatory supply of free menstrual hygiene products in educational centres, health centres, universities, work centres, civic centres, libraries, sports facilities and other institutions. Finally, also in the area of menstrual well-being, the measures are complemented at work by flexible menstrual permits to be adopted within the framework of public employment and promoted also in the private sphere. Another of the key areas of this Law on Sexual and Reproductive Rights, pardon, of this Law are reproductive rights. We need to focus on the right of women and pregnant women to informed consent in all gynecoobstetric processes, and apply the principles of respected childbirth. In order to guarantee reproductive rights and to eradicate gynecoobsteric violence, we need protocols for the care of pregnancy, childbirth, postpartum, postpartum, and postpartum, which are up-to-date and have the participation of associations and organizations specialized in their elaboration and approval. We are aware that talking about gynecoobsteric violence is uncomfortable here, but we cannot continue to deny reality, (?) We can continue to deny reality. For the first time also in this law we have provided for a specific articulation that is focused on the care of gestational and perinatal duel, and the right also to specialized treatment, both care and psychological in these cases. We want to develop accompanying guides in the duel and create spaces for memory dedicated to gestational and perinatal duel. Of course, this law also includes a chapter devoted to abortion, to the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Through this law we want to shield safe and free access to abortion from the public network. We want to turn back to that news that recently appeared in the media that 95% of abortions are carried out in private clinics in Euskadi. With regard to abortion, the Act also seeks to ensure information on the exercise of the right to abortion in order to ensure access to the various abortion methods that are most appropriate and consistent with women's autonomy and decisions. In relation to abortion, we also include the autonomous regulation of conscientious objection, which must be guaranteed as a fundamental right, but without ever being an impediment to the effective exercise of women's decision-making over their bodies. All that has hitherto been said concerns health, but there are other axes which are indispensable to support these rights. One of them, for instance, the integral sexual education in all degrees. Today, he doesn't grow up in all schools properly, and our disinformation is a serious problem. Education must be given in the formal area, not in formal form, as a starting-point, and not only in order to avoid pregnancy, or to transmit diseases, but also in order to enjoy sexuality. In this law there are several other matters also. On information, on perception, on formization, on statistics, about the formation of a map, and so on, many important themes are also recorded. To say all this, I must say, we do not now understand the contrary of the dictatorship given by the Government to transfer this law. Because we think we have a chance, it's a holiday moment to talk about this. All institutions have said that a law is necessary. On the other hand, it's not because there's not one of the rights that are associated with feminism that we've had in Eukadin. And it was also a holiday unit to continue that Euskádi vanguard. And we don't understand the negative... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... with the rights they are bound to. And it was also a holiday unit for Euskakia to continue that advance. And we do not understand the refusal of the President for the words given in the interparlamentary dialogue a month ago, declaring rights to sex and reproductions, and asking for the greatest system of personal attention they needed. Unfortunately, the logical consequence of this opinion is that we understand that the parties supporting the Government will vote against this law being dealt with. In any case, we do not surrender, and we will continue to appeal to the logic of defending sexual and reproductive rights. Very recently we had a meeting, after the presentation of this law, we had a meeting also, a working meeting with different associations on this subject, and we asked them if they had to put a demand on the table regarding sexual and reproductive rights what it would be. First, the visibility and the naming, the recognition, the concrete existence of these rights came out. Secondly, the importance of training and awareness-raising has also emerged. It is precisely these elements that we have wanted to articulate through this bill. As I was saying, it does not seem that the consideration will come forward. And it also said that we will continue to fight for these rights to come into effect and become normative reality as well. If I wanted to say that, even if it does not go ahead, in any case, this law, this proposal of law is not ours, it is not our parliamentary group. This proposal for a law arises, it is the result of all the contributions made to us by associations, specialized persons and professionals in the field. This law is your contribution. What we have done has been listening, collecting, investing time, resources and a great deal of illusion. But, as I say, this law does not belong to us, this law belongs to all. And if today does not come forward its consideration, as it is of all, I hope that any day that these can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Gather the EH team, Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u3	Good morning, everyone. From the gathering of the Basque People, no doubt we say yes to the debate, and we say yes because we feel that we need a reflection. We believe it's a good time to consider where we are in the development of sexual and refractivative rights, whence we come from, and especially what resources we have, and how they are developing. We don't know the right way to be a law, we need a specific plan, but we think it's the reason that we're saying that we have the need of this disclosure, of going forward to the rights of the people of Bukkaia and Aran. The Basque Country, thanks to her feminists and her feminist professional professionals, was abstigration when it was due to sexual and refinctive rights. Eighty. We've got to go back to the decade, we've talked about how they've been known as the Plazning family, but they're really important spaces of interziplin. And today, sadly, we think we've gone back because we've lost a lot of space like that. And where are we? Some data has already been given. 5% of the abortions are performed at the site 5% of the community, 95% of the private clinics. And we're at a moment when we're up against these private clinics. In the course of the day, the persecutions which are constantly doing before the clinic of Liberation, the persecution against women, and the general persecution against all the people who work in this clinic, or are resisting the necessity of this clinic. And from here we demand that our solidarity and laws which lie on the table should be executed. And, as was well said, we find many professionals who have been trained in prevention and in education, but who have to focus on diseases, don't they? And all of us here, because we've repeated it a thousand times, how important it is in prevention, how important it is in education, how important it is to concentrate in that previous stage. And we believe that we are at the moment to devote time, quality, to the prevention, rather than to focus on these centres of transmission sex. After all, and as they were said, the proposals to advance in the rights of all women are those which are concentrated on sexual and refractivative rights, those proposals which are concentrated and strengthened in the rights of all the people, in the rights of sex and reproduction. And there's the homework we've got right now on the table, too. For this law of equality is quoted in the time of the opposition of government, −, what the law of equality has done to us is the work of domestic society. We have an article, but we have to do the development of this article right now. And we believe that this proposition which is made to-day, puts us in the direction of a development in those domestic works. In the Spanish State, it's true that at this moment another law is arguing, and that frame... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... we think it places us. In the Spanish State it is true that another law is discussed, and this frame, and most of the parties here, have made it clear to us that at the moment when the corrections against it are made, we shall make it clear, that we believe the necessity of such laws, and that we shall probably be on the side of such laws, that this frame, perhaps, may bring in the work of the House Euscalomia Ere, and bring it, or bring it, to the purpose of developing it. And, well, it's important to get hold of what's coming from, but don't let it bring a wash-up in a way, does it? Because, when we're talking about health training, we're talking about our commitments, and we're developing them because it's also our responsibility. Nevertheless, and as I have said, there will be no discussions to-day, you and I, it seems, will be on our side, but I believe we ought to be able to give way to the discussion, and to carry on with it the importance necessary in this legislature. For example, next week, we'll have a discussion about the obstetric violence our team proposed. We know, and it has also been shown, that though we will continue here with the cultivation of the Peripatel repentance, we shall continue in the most agreeable ways to strengthen Osaces; these also are the means of proceeding either in this law, or in these propositions which appear. But the way it is opened, we are engaged in other ways and other places. We have a group. Let us also use this group to discuss these matters. We'd have a chance to make a lot of proposals here. And we, well, would like to insert a view of space into that proposition, too, wouldn't we? : how important it is that at the time of writing, thinking, and doing such laws, it should be made from the feminisity of the absolutely indispensable − views. And to bring it here today, and, as it is done, or as we shall continue to do, it is indispensable, and the other internationalistic view is an internationalist. You were very well placed at the moment in a violent assault against the rights of sexual and subversive rights, especially women and LGBTI, who are also arriving here in the world. And in front of that we have to commit to continuing our journey together. These steps may be useful to the continued progress in other countries. And as we have advanced with the Poles, as we ought to do with the United States, to feel that their retreats are also ours, because we are not far away, and we know that we are very near those persons who wish to abandon the rights of women. So, to continue working on commitment, to make commitment in the different spaces where we're engaged, and to join the feminist movements, with these feminists of professionals, with the workers of the Osalists, who are also indispensable to our health centres, because there are rights in our basic rights and in the way of our well-being. So from us, as I said today, a yes to the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. I've asked you before, but in case you don't mind me asking: Is someone trying to participate in the opposite round? No [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters 25; the opponents, 47; abstaining, 0; white, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u5	So it wasn't accepted to consider it. And let the vote of the hated ones vote that he'd be on his side. And now look at it, please, card, or change it or something. Okay. The rest of the teams, I think of the vote. Vox-Misto, Mrs Martínnez, okay? The word is yours. [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I must confess that during the reading of this proposal there were many moments when I doubted whether what I was reading was real or simply a product of my imagination. It was what I thought at a certain age a person's ability to surprise was already exhausted, but this proposition has overflowed all my bounds of amazement. It is a Montero bill, sent to all members of Podemos to adapt it in their communities and present it, because only this minister is able to make and devise a law of these characteristics. A proposal full of prejudices and stereotypes, all based not on a feminist conception, as the text indicates, but on radical communism. A good example of this is its second article, which states that the full enjoyment of the right to sexual health must be ensured taking into account the needs of women, individuals, groups and specific population groups. Not a mention of the male sex, which we understand are considered mere individuals. Moreover, throughout the project they do not mention men or men at any time. This is unprecedented discrimination and sectarianism. Disproposal, misappropriation, misappropriation, delirium or sprawl are words which, by carrying out a parliamentary correction exercise, serve to define the proposed law presented and which, fortunately, has not been taken into consideration. The proposal refers to issues such as consent or abortion, to which we are not going to refer, as they are widely debated issues and Vox's position on this issue has no doubt as to whether it is well known. But we are going to refer to specific issues that have attracted our attention and some of which seem to us to be particularly serious. The text recognizes and even promotes the right to exercise sexual rights to all persons, of all ages, including children, without establishing any age limit, despite the fact that the age of consent in Spain is 16 years. It seems to us to be an exercise of fear and irresponsibility to make a Montero-style appeal, encouraging children to have relationships with whomever they like, unlimitedly and without taking into account their degree of sexual and emotional maturity. This in many countries is close to pederasty. In another section, the proposal refers to obstetric violence, indicating that it is a form of sexist violence against women. To generalize medical practices in a health service as macho violence is a serious mistake. And since Vox we have expressed our support for all these professionals attacked fiercely by Podemos. It may be due, in some cases, to poor practice, but it can never be considered macho violence, when, in addition, more than 60% of the gynaecology and obstetrics staff is female. They also mention in their proposal the right to freely enter into marriage, to de facto unions and the impossibility of consummating forced marriages or marriages. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, you do not seem to have heard that marriage is free in Spain, and this is reflected in our Civil Code, which indicates that there are no marriages without consent. They also address other issues such as the right not to undergo genital mutilation, not to be trafficked for the purpose of sexual exploitation, or not to be sexually abused or assaulted. All these issues, which we consider to be particularly serious, are criminalized in our Criminal Code and are the responsibility of the police and the courts to combat them. I'll make you one last confession. There have been passages that, with their reading, have provoked me to fun moments. It's a thank you that we can try to get the vassals out of a tedious, insulsive, boring sex life. Therefore, the proposal does not give Basques our right to the full expression of our sexual power, to emotional sexual expression, and, best of all, to have pleasant sex. With regard to all this, I am struck by a number of doubts: How are they going to assess the scope of the exercise and development of these rights? Will they put an orgasmometer in our homes to measure whether we have a pleasant and satisfying sex life? And for those Basques who do not achieve the fullness of their potential expression and degree of satisfaction, what kind of elixir are they going to use to end their dissatisfactions and frustrations? We are faced with a proposal totally out of line, a proposal to satisfy all ideological lobbies that sink their approaches; not in feminism, which is something else, but in demagogy and sectarianism. An initiative full of prejudices, stereotypes and clichés, with an implicit aversion and stigmatization towards men, to whom you discriminate and point with your finger accuser. An initiative that involves a lack of protection against minors, who are openly invited to have sex, without age limit and without taking into account their degree of maturity. From Vox we bet on a fully equal society, where there is no discrimination of any kind, as established by our legal system. So we ask the mounts to stop restricting people's freedom and labeling us in collectives: sexists, feminists, abortionists, negatists, objectors, laymen, religious, heterosexual, homosexual, binary, pangeners, bigener, non-binaries...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u7	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u8	...asexual, transgender... I'm done, Madam President. Stop imposing on us on the basis of totalitarianism and unique thinking what we have to do and think, how and when. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u9	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u10	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Good. Let's see, some intervention with some speech I suppose that with some formulation gives the feeling that this society has not advanced anything; gives the feeling that nothing has been done. I do not know, here is the Health Adviser, there is the Education Adviser, there was a moment ago also the Security Adviser and the Equality Adviser who could testify that this society has taken many steps in the right direction on many issues that affect the repeated and repetitive issues that the proposer has brought to this House in relation to her claim to duplicate debates. And that is why my group has voted against this consideration of the non-proposition of sexual and reproductive rights law in Elkarrekin's Euskadi Podemos-Izquierda Unita... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... And that is why my group voted against this consideration of the non-proposition of sexual and reproductive rights law in Euskadi of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. And it has done so for three reasons or circumstances that affect the regulation that the proposing group is seeking: it has done so for reasons of opportunity, it has done so for reasons of necessity and it has done so also for reasons of parliamentary dynamics - which I would also like to claim in this House - and for the work that this House is doing..., in its different bodies and working groups, for this Parliament. For the sake of opportunity. For you yourself have presented and promoted a legislative initiative in the Courts, in Congress, in relation to the issue. And we understand that we will have to analyse this parliamentary debate, that it will be subject to amendments and that it will have a presentation procedure, and that as part of organic laws, I want to say that it affects us all and also this Basque Parliament, and we will have to... we will have to analyse that parliamentary debate, its amendments, its final adoption or not, or..., and we will see, so that we can see how state legislation affects as well as the autonomous communities. And we understand that, in that sense, and by that circumstance, and by that new opportunity, it is possible to duplicate, moreover, inefficiently, a political debate on the same issue, with the same objectives, the same parliamentary groups, the same proposal for actions and measures and the same character of parliamentary impetus, which is what you want. They will present that initiative in the Congress of Deputies, in all autonomous parliaments, being repetitive, we can have... Moreover, and there is a risk of absolutely disparate, diverse and harmful and ineffective regulation, I say again ineffective, in relation to what is being pursued. The second reason for our opposition would be for a reason of necessity. This law is not necessary. From our parliamentary group, from the People-Citizens group, we understand that this law is not a necessary law. That is why we share the same view expressed by the Government regarding the procedure for consideration. In other words, when referring to the criterion, Law 1/2022 of 3 March is clear. But also to many other circumstances, not only normative ones, that are there in relation to public health, or in relation to health, or in relation to education, or security, that is, to many others. It will be by documents, it will be by plans and it will be by strategies of this Basque Government in relation to all these issues. Sometimes we criticize them for their breadth. But there are, in that sense, issues in this whole area, in the field of health, health, or in the field of education. And also in the criminal sphere of our legislation and our criminal legislation. Or also at international level in the conventions that Spain has signed, of course, through its treaties or conventions that also affect such important issues as this. Somehow someone said it's not a priority. We understand that these subjects are a priority in the Spanish institutions. But not from now on because we can, but from always and a long time ago. And there has also been an evolution on these issues. And, of course, you don't have to... We can therefore understand that in this sense society is moving forward, and, of course, from all points of view, and from all institutions, and for a long time is also doing so in an evolutionary process. New measures may be implemented. But we don't consider it necessary that... An integral law of the characteristics proposed to us was to become... In addition, a law of these characteristics that you propose would become a derogation from the same law that we have passed this year in relation to these issues. That also creates legal uncertainty, it also, of course, creates a lack of guarantees. Because some of the issues were to be established in one law, that is, superimposing one regulation to another. And finally, we voted against it for a reason of parliamentary dynamics. There is an active intergroup in this House on population, development, sexual and reproductive rights, in which you, Mrs Gorrotxategi, as you are integrated, and where you can talk about issues of regulatory necessity or the possibility of implementing new actions. We've already done it, we've done it historically, because that group has been working. Public actions to existing ones. And especially if it's a social contribution like the one you claim it is. Well, there's an intergroup and I have to claim the role of the intergroups. The proposing group - to conclude, president -, in the same way as in the draft organic law, re-expresses those interventionist tics that Elkarrekin Podemos or United Left as they manifest in most of their debates when talking about social practices. A state interventionism, of course, that we do not like. For this reason, Mrs Gorrotxategi, my People's Party-Citizens, for these reasons, has voted against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u11	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u12	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. My parliamentary group, the Socialist Group, has voted against the inclusion of this proposal for a law on sexual and reproductive rights in Euskadi put forward by the Elkarrekin Podemos group for the reasons I shall indicate below. Firstly, as has already been said, it is a reproduction in the vast majority of the organic bill, uh, reform of Law 2/2020, 3 March, on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy, which is currently in the Congress of Deputies in the process of tabling amendments. And, of course, we believe that it is at the state level where the debate on this organic law now falls. And it makes no sense to begin its proceedings in this Parliament when it is already in full proceedings in the Congress of Deputies. In addition, this proposed law on sexual and reproductive rights in Euskadi has had the unfavourable report on its consideration by the Governing Council also for different reasons. Firstly, because these rights which are intended to guarantee the proposal of law are guaranteed in a set of laws and plans. One of them is Law 1/2022... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... guaranteeing the proposal of law is guaranteed in a set of laws and plans. One of these is Act No. 1/2022 of 3 March of the second amendment to the Act on Equality of Women and Men, in which article 44 provides for the exercise of sexual and reproductive rights through both preventive and care measures aimed at ensuring the integration of sexual and reproductive health and promoting access to sexual and reproductive health services. As well as facilitating sexual planning and avoiding unplanned pregnancies, and ensuring these benefits without any discrimination. And the provision of termination of pregnancy is guaranteed through the centres of the public responsibility health network. The Act also promotes women's autonomy in pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding. And under Law 1/2022 - which we have recently adopted - it also covers the forms of violence in the area of sexual and reproductive health of women, in line with the Istanbul Convention. Moreover, within the Department of Health, sexual and reproductive health is an essential nuclear aspect within the strategic framework document submitted to the Basque Parliament, guaranteeing its assistance in person-to-person. And in the field of education, the Department of Education already considers sex education within the second Co-education Plan. Finally, we have to bear in mind that - as Mr Barrio has also said - we have an intergroup of development population and sexual and reproductive rights that has always worked very well and continues to work very well. And you - the proposer group Elkarrekin Podemos - have at no time raised before the intergroup your wish to present the current proposal for a law, which we have voted against. This is not logical, that it will not even be possible to present it on a previous basis within this intergroup. But, well, as I have already indicated, your debate is now at the Congress of Deputies at the state level. We - our parliamentary group, the Socialist Group - will always support all laws, all measures aimed at advancing on an equal footing. But we have to have that debate when and where it plays. And right now, you have it within the Congress of Deputies. There is organic law, there it is discussed and there it will be adopted on a state basis and will be applicable throughout Spain. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u13	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u14	Mr. President, Congressman, chief officers, good morning to all of you. We voted against the law proposal. The reason is clear: This proposal is bad. That's the main reason. It's not a good text. It's out of place. It didn't come from our reality. And it doesn't apply to our reality. Instead of presenting a zero-mile product, a megalfrancian has been presented, a lousy little occupancy pega. We're on the Basque Act, and, Euskadin, we have a natural reality. The law proposal does not count our reality. We have several laws, plans, and programs that protect and guarantee the rights of sex and reproduction. We're on the Basque Act, and this year we've accepted the new law of equality. There are several areas enclosed that can regulate proposals. Thus the article of the law sees the execution of the rights of sex and reproduction, by prevention and assistance. It ensures the sexual health and reproduction in an integrated manner. The law which we have admitted here also guarantees the execution of the pregnancy by means of the medical centers of public responsibilities, according to the regulations that are established. The law which we have here adopted inspires the autonomy of women in pregnancy and in birth. We've agreed to all that in this legislation itself. All this is forgotten by the law proposed. This is a proposal for a law that does not originate in Euskadi, which does not know or recognize our reality. It does not take into account the legislative background that we have adopted in this Parliament. It does not take into account the plans and programmes put in place by the Basque Government in recent years. It does not even take into account parliamentary activity itself. As other speakers said, for ten years we have had a parliamentary intergroup on sexual and reproductive rights working to make those rights visible, strengthen and guarantee. An intergroup oriented so far always by the search for maximum consensus. The proposal for a law - which we have just rejected - is a franchise, a shortcut and a glue of propositions presented in General Courts or other autonomous Parliaments. And it is presented here by surprise, without having been communicated to the intergroup of which the proposer is part. It is presented without any parliamentary courtesy. And our negative vote, however, is a demand for sexual and reproductive rights. A recognition all the way. And a commitment to the path we must continue to take from consensus. We have gone that way in this very Parliament. It is therefore unheard of to include in this text rights that have been expressly included recently in the law on the second amendment of the Equality Act that we have just adopted: the guarantees established to ensure comprehensive sexual and reproductive health, and to promote access to these services. Guarantees to facilitate sexual planning and prevent unplanned pregnancies. Guarantees of assisted human reproduction benefits admitted, without discrimination on any grounds. The promotion of women's autonomy and empowerment to make free decisions about contraception or sexually transmitted diseases, the strengthening of everything related to violence in the... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... empowering and empowering women to make free decisions on contraception or sexually transmitted diseases, strengthening all aspects of violence in the area of rights and sexual and reproductive health, in line with the Istanbul Convention. We've come a long way here and we keep our commitment. That is why we are now in the middle of the debate on the second amendment of the Non-Discrimination of Transgender and Transgender Persons Act. Therefore, the intergroup is involved in introducing the perspective of sexual and reproductive rights into several bills, such as comprehensive sex education in the future education law. Therefore, the commitment to introduce the perspective of sexual and reproductive rights into the future law of development cooperation. Therefore, the commitment to impact on the future public health law, now in process. That is the path we have taken and the commitment we maintain in this Parliament. This non-law proposal falls like a paratrooper in this Parliament. The proposal does not seek a real and effective impact on the guarantee of sexual and reproductive rights, no, it is a mere cosmetic operation. Unfortunately, there are not a few attacks on these rights, both from the extreme political right and from anti-choice movements around the world, and we have had an example here today. These movements feel grown, united and organized. The key is that those of us who defend and promote these rights maintain the same unity. That's how we've been doing it here. That is why they are incomprehensible to us and we do not support unilateral initiatives that are unworked and unlanded in our reality. This proposal, instead of promoting progress in sexual rights, gives anti-choice movements and the extreme right the opportunity to continue campaigning against the rights already achieved. Here we have the opportunity to strengthen those rights, and I trust that we will continue to do so with dialogue, shared work and the broadest consensus. This, of course, will remain the attitude and commitment of the Basque Nationalist Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u15	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Second point on the subject list: "Grow up the proposition of the law made by the parliamentary teams, concerning the spreading of the tendency of children in public transports for 12 years. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mr. Fernandez de Bethoño, representing and defending EH Collect Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u16	Good morning, everyone. There are some important subjects at the time of public transport, but there are two hooks: the quality of service on one side and the price of service on the other. When we say quality, we speak frequency, hours, the state of the convoy's fleet, the state of workers, etc. And the price of service is plain, I think we'll agree here, that it must be as cheap as possible, but always compromise the quality... "Don't sit down. The price of the bills. Half of the service is paid in or out of bills, because the other half comes from public funds. Half and half. This changes according to the city, even according to service, but it is more or less so. This percentage can be changed according to political, economic, and social purposes. Like any other investment. Euscal Autonomy in Er member, 2017 and 2019 decided to spread free property in public transport to all children under six years of age. It was not until then until three years ago, in other places until four years, sometimes five years old, and then it spread out to 2017-2019 in all places until six years. And today is the day when that measure is nowhere to be moved. The Klaro, which took two to three years to combine it, because, as you know, there are several public operators in Euscalnomy in the Erdi in public transportation, each has its own domain of determination. Some of them are autonomical, others of the rank of the country, others of the townships; and there are mixtures of the country, and so on. And so this complexity must also be considered when we speak of tarifes and bills. And to say this from a certain point of view, we must also say what state we are in. And not only that it's a critical crisis of the Ukrain war, but also because of two global crisis, which is more alarming and more disturbing. And on the one hand there is a climate crisis, and on the other a demographic crisis. As to the climate crisis, it must be said that a third part of the CO2 excretions that flow from Euskal Autonomy in the Eredi are connected with the transport, and consequently the decisions taken in transport are key to this question. And, on the other hand, as to the demographic crisis, I believe there is something which affects families every day, and so we must try to make the daily life of families as easy as possible from those we design public politics. And therefore we proposed a monopographic challenge to the demographic challenge, which had been discussed in the 18th of May from the EH Collect, and in this affair of the Law, and in that case we introduced two expeditions connected with the transportation, 21st and 22. On the 21st, we requested that the public transport should be available for the children under the age below 12, and at 22 we requested that the tope of the age considered as young should be united in the whole Euscal Autonomy of Erdi. This second proposal was accepted, but not the first, it was not allowed to offer the children under twelve to go to public transports. And we thought it was a right measure, as we said, for environmental purposes. He would lead more people, more passengers, private vehicles... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... It was, as I have said, the right measure for environmental purposes. He would lead more people, more travellers, from private transports to the public transport. And maybe the question may be why 12 years and not 11 or 13th. And we believe that 12 years' time is a key, well, because the type of education is a change, because they pass from primary education to secondary education, and a kind of autonomy is not yet less than 12 years old, so they often go to schools, or go to schools by auto-car or by auto-cars, and so we think it's enough to get these kids into the pre-terrestriety, because they're going together with their parents to the public transportation. And therefore it is that which places itself in so many other places, as it is in 12 years, that boundary. What happened in that monographic challenge of the demography? As I said, EAJ and PSE voted against this proposal. And to the zeal of this vote the colleague of Erasez de Egilla said next: "In the same way it is necessary for us, and we have not succeeded in doing so either; but this is something which must be studied, because it is to come, and must necessarily answer, because the public transport is going on for the time of zero and 12 years. It's funny that we picked up the negative round on this proposal. It would have to be an essential matter to encourage public transports in any crowd, and more when we're in the middle of a certain ecological crisis. And we believe that children should be free for 0 and 12 years, they should have a right to it." And I think after five months, we can just keep defending those words anyway. And yet we do not believe that EAJ and PSE could maintain what they voted that day, without at least falling into contradiction. Because in the last few months, there's been a lot of movement around the public transport tarifs. And though EAJ here voted for freeing the children under the 18th of May, two months later, the Gasteian mayor announced that he wanted to start that measure in the Gastine buses. So if EAJK has copied that measure, it is not so bad as EH Collect has proposed. After all, he copied it, didn't copy it. Because he added one thing to her. In the beginning, he declared by mouth that they would do that. But then what had been proposed by nature was the "EH" of Gastei, assembled at the Council of Administration at TUVISA, and EAJ and PSE introduced a counter-proposation. The same proposal, however, was added to a condition: A public transport for the children under 12 years, TUVISA, going for the bus, but only for those who were registered there. And we thought this measure was a distraction, so we said, and that's why we took it up in the front vote of that measure. And we asked for a legal report to see if this discrimination was legal. The answer came for our thesis the last week. The Secretary of the Town Council said to demand a certain measure, that the public should be registered, when it is due to those who are registered to others, that it is a dissegrimatory, and that there is plenty of measures to which the law shows, if they come to courts, they have every chance of losing. So, in the end, it's the size of the Gaste, which EH Collect proposed: A bus's free for the kids under 12 years. And that size seems to be running in December because there are some technical problems with the card. And that's exactly what we're proposing here today. We have divided our legal proposal into three points. What we're asking for at the first point is that fun will set up that freedom of public transports within its reach for children under 12 years. What we ask at the second point is, that forum, parter, which the worshipper participates in, he may encourage in mankom units, that other public operators should take this measure also. This seems important to us, because to unite is a matter of course. They can't force other operators, but we think if the funk takes the leadership in the Euskata Transport Authority, they can finally get the same size with the other operators. And that has been shown, for instance, by the downfalls of the last few months. There were a lot of rumors here, but at last it came to an agreement in the Esucaian Transport Authority. Well... it is exactly what we demand in this case. And it would be connected with that third point. What we're asking is if you want to talk to me about funding with other operators, the funding of this measure. And we think it ought to be fun to be a big leader in this case, maybe it should be a big part of the part itself, just as it was decided, in answer to those denials that came from Spain. We think, then, that in this matter too, we ought to arrive at a similar solution. If we think it was possible that a certain amount of public transportation for children under 12 years has been placed in the 11th Barcelon of some Spanish State towns, placed in Sevilla, placed in Toledo, we believe that it is also useful here. And if you haven't gone so far, if you've taken a certain measure in the Gaste, and EAJk and PSE, they're the leader of it, if both parties that make fun of you have taken that measure of Gaste, we think, here... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... If the two parties that make fun of it have taken that measure of Gaste, we think we ought to take it here too, spreading the same measure to every public transport in the EAE. And in that sense, we hope to vote for all the teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u17	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u18	Good morning and thank you. We have another discussion about transports in the pliant of the legislature. It is also a sign of pleasure that the economic crisis is expressed at this moment, as a sign of a climate crisis, and we believe that the discussion is extremely substantial, although today we are going to discuss the whole concrete thing. Today, the contractor has presented an initiative to travel for free until 12 years in the Eucharist transports, and we'll protect him from our team, even though we think he's a little short, and we'd spread it in our correction for 16 years. But it is true that in this law, and in other institutions, such undertakings have been introduced in history from our own group. As I said, we're on our side, we're on the side of the initiative, even though we're trying to extend it to 16 years. And both the principal reasons for prolonging 16 years are because education is over and there is enough to work. We do it in a very particular way, or in a very particular sense, in this direction of good, safe, and cheap transport. We do so, as I said at the beginning, in the midst of a debate that is not only about transport, but also about the model of a country and how we fight against the effects of the climate crisis, which is not derived from it, it is now accentuated, but it is not derived exclusively from the war that we have right now in Europe, but we are in the midst of a climate crisis, a civil crisis that forces us to rethink how we want to move, how we want to relate ourselves as a society to the limits of the planet. And given that transport, together with industry, is primarily responsible for greenhouse gas emissions in Euskadi, that transport, far from reducing those emissions, has increased them since 1990 in Euskadi by 130% and 15 % since 2005. That, by the way, transport is one of the elements with which the Basque Government can have the greatest influence in reducing the effects of greenhouse gases, encouraging public transport and discouraging the use of the private vehicle. We are going to register next week - which I will then talk about - the amendments to the Sustainable Mobility Act which has no greenhouse gas reduction targets. At this moment the theme is also in actuality. The Spanish Government after an initiative in the Podemus, had tried in other services of Renfe Cercanías and other services in the Renfe; and also because, in the state, there has been a co-operation with all communities in the transportation of the community. And fortunately, this proposition has been made to include it in the budgets of 2023, in order to maintain the freeness of these services in the 2023. And now we have to fight for subsidies of this kind as well as for foreign affairs, in communities, here in Euscadin, at Eukot, at Metrobaus, Biscaibus, trams, and all other services to include these disapprobations. In addition, it is very early to draw conclusions, but we do have some data on the effect that these measures of discounts, gratuitousness in Renfe and discounts in other transports, such as the reduction in September by almost 10% of the use of the private vehicle in the historic territory of Bizkaia or the decrease in vehicle admissions to Bilbao compared to 2021 on working days, in the same month of September, which has been almost 6%. These are not data that we can still compare with long historical series, baina bai dira seinale onak. It's true the price isn't the only factor a person can get public passports or public transport. We've introduced other initiatives, and we'll protect them also to promote the use of public transport. Today we were getting up with a news report stating that the Basque Government says maintaining the discounts would be expensive. The problem is expensive about what? Because obviously everything costs money, you have to make political decisions in all circumstances. But, of course, in the general budgets of the State, an item of €700 million has been allocated to keep the discounts in Renfe. 700 million euros that are less than those that the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Foral Diputation of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party are going to spend in a tunnel under road that is supposed to be done in 2028, for the use of the private vehicle, which is what theoretically says the bill of the Department of Transport that is going to fight to decrease the use of the private vehicle. Fighting fast, underground, against reality. That's what you're pretending to be. I mean, if keeping that discount is worth or costs 700 million euros across Spain and we're going to spend... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... I mean, if keeping that discount is worth or costs 700 million euros throughout Spain and we're going to spend in few kilometers of a historical territory 700 million euros, theoretically, because they're going to be more, that we know, they're more with VAT already, and they're going to be more, that's for sure – and if you want to make a bet – for a lot (?) With that shuttle that they're going to put in, which he took out the other day Unai Rementeria like a rabbit from the joker, and those of us who were in that plenary got a little ojiplatic, it seems that there's money left to make holes and transfer this kind of old policy projects to the present. And it's not worth, and it's very expensive if we want to keep discounts or make discounts on public transport. As I said before, on Monday we will review the corrections we're making to the law of the bearable cell. Some will go about transportation and prices and tarifes, and we'll see. Today there is no will to speak of this from the two parties supporting the Government, but only to place a very broad headline on the table. We shall see what will is in the law of patient motion, in order to negotiate this law, to speak of tarifes, and to promote public transports. Because it is a debate of the present and it is a debate of the future. The data is on top of the table, the climate crisis and the effects that transport has on it. We are going to put forward amendments aimed at creating proximity and creating and reducing the need for travel, and this is about public services and it is also about transport. But, at the same time, that law that is going to take, logically, is a complicated law to execute. We need to address seriously and in Parliament – not just in the offices of two institutions – the debates on the future of tariffs. If the Government of Spain has been betting to keep 100% of the discount in Renfe for 2023, what the Basque Government will do beyond studying, keeping the discounts and saying that it is very expensive, that that is an obvious thing like tomorrow is Friday. At the same time, we have that the City Council of Gasteiz, the company TUVISA, has approved the gratuity that is requested today in this initiative. You've already explained Mr Fernandez de Betono, well, ba, ekimen horren nondik norakoak. Also in Barcelona and other cities it has been approved. We see that there is no such will in the Basque Government, and well, because we are only asking for some consistency in adopting measures that go in the same direction, because it is not right right now for us to remain in a vagueness of studying discounts, that we can agree to make a system of discounts based on income criteria, etc., but it is time to make decisions, because we have data, there are proposals, we have presented one in this initiative, our group has presented them at other times and we are going to present them to the Sustainable Mobility Act, as I have said in this intervention. Surely you have it well thought out, why don't we sit down and agree on the future of the tariff system in the whole of Euskadi. I don't think there's gonna be any deal today. We're gonna have a chance from Monday. Well, again, I urge you to sit down so that public transport in Euskadi is as cheap as possible and walks towards social justice as well in that necessary energy transition that we are going to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u19	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u20	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists take this opportunity to reiterate our commitment to promoting public transport, both in terms of its social and environmental dimensions. Today's case Euskal Herria Bildu has also been transferred to other territorial institutions where some pronouncements have already been made, either at the Gipuzkoa General Councils or at the Bilbao City Council. In addition, we are starting from an exceptional situation with regard to the encouragement and encouragement of the use of public transport through public aid and a set of measures for the different means of transport of application in Spain and also for Euskadi. A situation that has been unprecedented and a range of measures that are already being implemented by the Government of Spain and by the institutions and administrations of the whole of Euskadi. In view of this proposal put to us today by Euskal Herria Bildu, which was not taken into account in the monographic plenary on the demographic strategy of 18 May last, the Basque Socialists, together with Basque nationalists, have tabled an amendment calling on the Basque Government, through the Basque Transport Authority, to propose to all public operators in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to commit themselves to the establishment and application of a system of progressive discounts on the basis of use and personal condition in the price of transport tariffs, taking additional account of the income of the beneficiary persons or family units. And, in addition, we say in that amendment that we have signed with Basque nationalists that this system of discounts could reach free in users between six and 12 years, and also in collectives that is considered to be so in the Euskadi Transport Authority. And our amendment is based on several considerations, not on looking for a headline. Firstly, the consideration of the body in which the amendments and aids to urban and long-distance public transport affecting Euskadi must be dealt with, as has been the case with those established by the Government of Spain and the Basque Government itself. Secondly, respect for the powers of the institutions and bodies involved in this matter. And, thirdly, in the situation as diverse as the transport tickets and the tariff policies of public transport that exist in the three historical territories. And as far as the first point is concerned, it is the Euskadi Transport Authority, the supreme consultative and coordinating body of the General Administration of Euskadi in the field of transport management,... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... the Euskadi Transport Authority is the supreme consultative and coordinating body of the General Administration of Euskadi in the field of transport management, planning and coordination by law since December 2003 the appropriate forum, therefore, where to discuss the actions, measures and policies affecting public transport that require such coordination and cooperation between all the institutions; as it has been the case, as I said before, of the aid, the coordination of the aid and the measures that the Government of Spain has put in place and that have been implemented by the Basque Government in Euskadi; the aid for urban and long-distance transport that this royal decree-law of 25 June, which was developed by ministerial order subsequently, has been or has been implemented since 1 September. Look, Councillor Arriola's claim, at the meeting of the Euskadi Transport Authority on 7 July, was to implement the measures in Euskadi in a coordinated manner and with the same rate of bonus for all operators in Euskadi, in order to ensure that the benefit was general and affected equally to all persons, regardless of the type of transport they use and the corner of the Basque Country in which they live, considering, from due respect for competition, that the objective is to face the difficult economic situation in relation to essential mobility. For this reason, the Socialists propose that it be also, on this occasion, in the Euskadi Transport Authority that the public operators be asked to adopt, in this case, not an extension of the free transport until the age of 12, but that it be promoted in that forum, as our amendment says, the establishment and application of a system of progressive discounts in the price of transport tariffs, depending on the use of personal status or the income of people. Because in this case coffee is not worth to everyone, it is not the fairest coffee to everyone. And call him 12 years because he finishes an education cycle, call him 16 years because he ends another, the compulsory educational model, or call him because young people and adolescents use PADI. Make the excuse you want, but this cannot become the fair of occurrences; and less so when we are in an important period, near an election campaign, both for municipal elections and for outlaws, in which these administrations also have much to say. Secondly, the Basque Government, in that forum, which is the Basque Transport Authority, together with the rest of the Basque administrations, is where it can propose and discuss in a coordinated manner this proposal for progressive discounts which we consider much more appropriate, much more ambitious, in addition to rigorous and comprehensive than that which they have proposed both, in this case, Euskal Herria Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. Today in Euskadi we have, on the basis of the competitive level, three forums for the establishment of tariff measures and policies: the Euskadi Transport Authority, the Gipuzkoa Transport Authority, the Bizkaia Transport Consortium and the Álava Mobility Authority. And if we propose that the debate be promoted in the Euskadi Transport Authority it is because we want the commitment, that global commitment for all operators, and that it be applied in all transports of Basque competition. We understand that we will also need to study in this area how to adapt this proposal to the case studies of the various territories and to the case studies of the various tariffs, because, today, we have a wide variety of fares and transport tickets in this autonomous community. And why do we propose that system of progressive discounts? Because if our institutional system is competitively complex and diverse, so is those various systems of tariffs and securities implemented territorially. Look, in Bizkaia, Barik has the titles Gazte 70, Gazte Gold, Monthly Gazte Bilbao in Barik and Barik Metro Bilbao Annual 26. It is here in Araba, BAT Araba, has 30D Gaztea; and in Mugi Gipuzkoa, we have the young G card from the age of six to the age of 25, with a discount system for use from the ordinary journey 51, which comes to a 100% price bonus. Therefore, diversity of transport titles, diversity of tariff policies, and requires coordination. And also, at the very least, a forum, so that it can be dealt with rigorously, with the studies that are required and from the point of view of competition, this matter that the historical territories and local administrations have. And by analyzing the systems of gratuity in some cities and autonomous communities of Spain - indeed, you have mentioned some - there are tariff policies for all tastes. On a permanent basis, we have free public transport in Galicia, in Balearic Islands, in Valladolid, in Barcelona, in Zaragoza, in Santander and in Vitoria, for different personal cases and for different ages. And on a temporary basis, in Cáceres and Toledo. Look, our amendment does not ask the government to propose to start pulling free children under the age of 12. Our amendment seeks to ensure that there is a system of progressive discounts, which, on the condition of income, the use of public transport and the personal condition of users, can, in addition to stimulating such use, encourage such use of public transport, can also help the domestic economies, and it can be achieved free of charge at the age of 12 or the most vulnerable groups that require it, because we also believe in sustainable mobility. And the use of public transport is the first element to be able to achieve that sustainable mobility in Euskadi. And we are proposing these discounts, as I said before, as is already being applied in some other territory in Euskadi. It has even reached the free of use, it even reaches the free of use. And the Socialists, I repeat, we do not understand that coffee for all on a continuous basis, as a permanent measure, is the best and fairest in encouraging that use of public transport on a permanent basis. Look, our bet pursues the objective of encouraging, encouraging the use of public transport, but taking into account the situation of each user; and without this entailing penalizing other systems or modes of active and sustainable mobility. It promotes coordination between operators and tariffs in the three territories, from the point of view of competition and by applying the necessary rigour to the debate. Today the discount models of Bizkaia, Álava and Gipuzkoa are very different and are very far away those models from each other. And that is why we understand that, beyond political and economic circumstances or circumstances, tariff policies and public transport tickets must be coordinated... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... that, beyond political and economic circumstances or circumstances, tariff and public transport security policies must be coordinated and agreed within the bodies and between the administrations which have the powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all. It's been discussed long and broad before me. Different positions, I think, have been clearly revealed. I won't repeat too much. The correction with the Social Party, I think, explains our position clearly. Madame Corcuer explained it too. It's true that the subject has a very large diary. We all know that we are faced with a difficult economic situation, but it must also be confessed that beyond this particular situation, they have long been developing for this purpose. And the organizations that care for public transportation differ in public politics, as well as in the case of tarifi, and in the establishment of this tolerable motion, is it not? Encreasing the use of it. And that's a way of doing it. It's an appropriate policy of prices. To-day we propose very exact measures: Instead of being six years old, it will last until 12 years. You, Mr. −Fernandez de Betoño, have explained your reasons for making this precise proposition, and have also said that we do not approve of the measure of those groups which support the government. And in our correction we do not say such things. I believe that, as I have said hitherto, − politics have been developed by the tariffs, very different in the three countries. And by means of transport authorities or extortions, they are carried forward. Araban, every operator decides the rate of autonomy in his transports. The biscillary doesn't have the system so integrated. There is a transport command, but it combines all transports or all operators. And I'd say that in this area there's a symposium that's the most advanced system in motion. And we're saying that our teams at least − make a bet to the entire Euskadi, maybe MUGI's system should be extended. There is also a rule in the Gipulia, where it is to harmonize those regular public transports, and to apply the same rate to all. And from one side each operator cannot decide, but all the decisions which take place in this supreme assembly of transport are applied in general. We think that's the way to go on because that's what we think is the social and justest and most patient system. And I don't think there's any doubt about that progress of discounts either. And, at least, by that system that takes us into the gym, Mrs. − and Corcuera also said that, according to the collective −, there's a different card, with different discounts... Then, according to the usage of a month, it also applies to discount. And for a moment, since this collective young man goes on a trip at 50, he has free access to the public transportation in the gym. Orduan - I repeat -, from our group we consider that perhaps the MUGI system of Gipuzkoa is the one that is most developed with a view to what should be a tariff system that we believe would be the one that should be applied throughout the territory of Euskadi. Because it's a social system, it's sustainable. We believe that it also promotes the use of public transport, which is also the goal for the reasons that we all know and that it even reaches gratuitousness in the collective of young people once they make a fairly continuous use of public transport, don't we? Whatever I've said before, in our correction, we don't reject the measure you propose. We say we have to make decisions where we have to make decisions. It is also considered that political policies should be made for divergence, as well as that which is the economic state of the user is, as well as that of age. And by this means it is necessary to encourage a system of the tariff which will render its use tolerable, even economically supports the family and the use of these public means of transport. And in these transports, whether in the land or in the Eucadice, these decisions may be made by means of co-ordinately co-ordination to be the same in all countries, and perhaps freedom may be decided, and not only in the collective which you propose to-day, but perhaps there may be other collective persons who have more need of it, and who may be justified in it for a moment. We will therefore keep our correction, but I believe that as Mr.− Martínilin, as Mr. Thank you. DEBA: Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. The representative of the popular group of Basques, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u23	Egun on. Thank you, President. Good morning, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. This subject brought to plenary today gives rise to two reflections. The first is that no father, mother or family, no person, no one... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... Today, the plenary gives rise to two reflections. The first is that in no father, mother or family member, no person, no one, allows a child of 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or 11 years of age to travel alone by public transport. Therefore, it is necessary to provide, it is necessary to provide solutions to families. We cannot be putting obstacles that add to the contradictions that mothers and parents have in thinking about having children, in planning a family. And I tell you that I know the Mugi card system very well, but it still has some difficulties for families of children under the age of 12, who are children who will never travel alone. Secondly, and continuing along the same lines, we cannot fail to think about the economic burden on families to bear the costs of raising a child up to adulthood. That's why we believe it's our duty to help them with everything we can. We would have to talk about bonuses or exemptions in public transport for those children who are being trained, and think about supporting families who are trying, and much, to keep their children studying after compulsory education. Nor can we forget that in the matter of tariffs, in public transport, we have many operators and different administrations with which to agree any modification. And besides, we have four forums to talk about these rates. We therefore announce that we will abstain from the EH Bildu initiative. And we will vote against the initiative of the amendment proposed by the PNV and the Socialist Party, because we understand that there can always be one more twist in which public transport has to be promoted in order to fight climate change and encourage families to use public transport, and knowing that we are going through a climate and economic crisis that puts families in serious difficulty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing on the day's shift, representative of the EH Collector, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u25	Yeah. Hello again. Corcuera andreak esan digu: "Let's not look for a headline. It's not the fairest coffee for everyone. Occurrence fair. Rigor. Government of Spain, PSOE, Renfe free for everyone. Year and a half." Huh? Party, magic, magic. Of the amendments which have been made to our proposition, it is true, we did not see them ill at first; we did not see them ill. We didn't see it badly enough for PP. We don't quite understand why he retired yesterday afternoon, he didn't explain it. This, indeed, the amendment was not very consistent, and the abscession which it has announced to-day is not very consistent, for in May it voted against it, and then, on the other hand, the Gaste name proposes to open that measure to the tram. So we don't quite understand where they're located, but well. On the other hand, we see the proposition made by the Podemos-IU. You were right about Martín. What happened was that, as our demand was wider than ours, we thought it easier to make an agreement with ours with the majority of this legislature, and that is why we kept our petition and put our work on it for 12 years. We also believe that 12 years of employment is an strategic institution, not only because children are attracted to transport, but also their parents. And finally, about the correction of EAJ and PSE, we all agree with the first point, and thus we extended it to you in the middle line, it was exactly the same. We could support progress, too, and we do it. And Mrs. Corcuera said that there are progressities already, and that's not true, and Bersalong explained it very well: In the three countries which are in the Basque Autonomy in the Esquire, there is not the same progress, and there is more progress in the country where he was in the Disputation; as you have said. And it's for a reason. And for some reason it is not done in other countries, and it is necessary that housework should be made to be the same progress. We're on the side of it, but that doesn't answer our initiative. He answers more at the second point. Yeah, you're not against it. "The free will be able to arrive," you say on the proposition; that is, can you put any age there, no? Could you put 44, 46? Will he be here? Okay. Klaro, hombre, we were asking you to put it in our middle-way proposition, "it'll be possible to replace it," as it is logical. And that's why we vote because you don't want to make a commitment. And in the City of Bilbo you said you were on the side, as you said today, Mrs. Bersalin, but you said Bilbo was not the place. Tonight, Mrs. Corcuer said something like that. He said: "This is no place for the parliament. It's a place in the Esucaian Transport Authority." And who's in the Esucaian Transport Authority? Some passing through? You know, I'm just saying, you know, you're talking about, you know, like, "Seuccess Leader of the MRI, Vice President, Secretary, eight bokals..." It's fun. Yeah, well, well, there's other public transports, too, but it's mostly fun with the government of the Basque Transport, so it's time for fun to appeal to another measure like that. And these measures may be taken in this legislature. This is where we appeal to the Esucaian Transport Authority. That's what we say at our second point. So we don't see the point. You may argue with the measure, of course, but don't tell me this isn't the place to take a piece of that sort and then ask you to go to the Basque Transport Authority. And I think you're the ones who've got contradictions and problems, because you're standing up a little bit of gastes... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... And I think you're the ones who've got contradictions and difficulties, because you're standing up a little bit of gastes and here's another. And I think you'll end up taking this measure because it's a good measure. You said: We're not against measure. We know. And we know you'll take it. And you'll do what you're doing with other things. Update requests: "No," I said. Update the topes of the subjective right of housing: "No," I said. So, the question is, today you're going to vote no, if you don't know when it's coming out of this size, when it puts it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u26	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Together, Poedemus. Martíne, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u27	He could have kept quiet. I don't think I'm going to improve what Mr. Fernandez de Betoño has done now. But I think it is worth further reflection on something that seems to me, far from a joke, quite serious: that is to say, the Basque Parliament, according to the Socialist Group, cannot debate transport tariffs and I cannot say anything at all. That's what you said word for... Yeah, yeah. Discuss, of course, man. I don't know, we've all been voted for, you and me and Mr Fernandez de Betaño. But what you have said is that no, this Parliament is not the forum to talk about this. That's what you said. Yeah. That's what you said. Do you know where it was approved...? Do you know where the Renfe fare discount was approved? Council of Ministers. And then he makes a royal decree law. Do you know where it's validated? Do you know where amendments can be made? Yes, in Congress. This Parliament does not have those powers. But this Parliament can give political mandates to the government. The representative of Bildu just told you. Can you not give Mr Arriola a political mandate so that within the Euskadi Transport Authority he defends everything, that they will then agree with the other authorities and with all the operators? Can't we discuss that? Because, if not, the truth is that I don't know the time that... we're going to calculate the time and money spent on this initiative for nothing, according to you, because we don't have that chance. And where is the place? I'd like to know. Where Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the opposition groups, that we are not represented because it has not touched us by the election results, where can we make the proposals? Because if we say "in the press," they're going to say, "No. It's just that you're populists" or "You have incidents," as you said. To Mr Raimundo Ruiz Escudero, president of TUVISA, which is where the discount has been approved..., that is, the gratuity for children under 12 years of age of the Basque Nationalist Party. I do not know if it is also an occurrence of Mr Raimundo Ruiz Escudero to approve the gratuity for children under 12 years of age in TUVISA. Because it seems that according to who proposes something because it is an occurrence or it is a fantastic idea. We convinced them in Madrid and Renfe has taken that leadership. There are the initiatives recorded in the Congress of Deputies before it will be approved by the Council of Ministers by our parliamentary group. Great. But I believe that among all of us, and among all of us, we can discuss the best tariff systems in Euskadi. In addition, a small country, 2 million inhabitants; complex in management, complex in the management of competencies. But I understand... And I think this is a reflection, although we are in time to take action for the climate crisis and also for the economic crisis that is affecting working families throughout the State and in the Basque Country and that some of the measures have been taken jointly by your group and our group, fortunately, in the State. I appeal to that progressive spirit. But it is that a family of Renteria, a family of Sopela, a family of Gasteiz or Rioja Alavesa affects it exactly the same. So, you're not gonna be so worried about who's taking that action. Therefore, as the Basque Parliament, I say again that seriously, rigorously, we have the whole world's right to debate on this issue and that, well, I think you have made a mistake in focusing the debate. Because they might have said, "We don't agree with the initiative for some reason." There have been only reasons for opportunity and place. Because, if not, you are making an amendment to the whole approach also, for example, to TUVISA or Barcelona, where you govern with us, for example. And I urge him again... Finally, I would like to urge you once again, with a pro posal, that the law on sustainable mobility should be an opportunity to discuss, as has also been said by the Nationalist group, how to coordinate these policies and how to harmonize these policies at the level of Euskadi in order to promote public transport, and, logically, also with income criteria, with progressive criteria. We'll totally agree and get in there. But we believe that this Parliament, and I say this again, and also not only in this debate, has the whole world's right to express itself on the action of the Government in the matters that fall within its competence. And, I say again, with a view to combating climate change, the promotion of public transport is one of the fundamental tools that the Basque Government has the competence to combat the climate crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u28	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u29	Yeah. Thank you, President. I have had to express myself fatal, because you are coming to me to give lessons here today, in Parliament, why we are in this Parliament... I have not denied any debate in this Parliament. On the contrary, I have had debates I do not know what things you can imagine. But all that is brought here and debated here will not be this humble parliamentarian who denies that this is the forum for debate on all the matters that you legitimately want to bring to this forum. Therefore, what I am telling you is that the Socialist Group's proposal, signed with the Basque Nationalist group, is a more ambitious, rigorous and, moreover, comprehensive proposal than the one you have put forward. And I am not telling the People's Party because it has withdrawn its amendment. I ratify, this looked like the event fair... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... That which you have raised. And I am not telling the People's Party because it has withdrawn its amendment. I ratify, this looked like the event fair. 12 years old, 16 years old, students. And because there are no more groups. Well, yeah, sorry, Vox. Because there was no more. Let us see, what I intend to tell you is that the forum where certain coordination decisions are made, as has been demonstrated in the implementation of the measures of the ministerial order developed by the Royal Decree Law of June, was the Euskadi Transport Authority. Or do you think that one day the counselor gets up and decides to apply the measures of that Royal Decree so, with the magic wand? No, no. Magic, magic, that of Bildu, seems that you now abandon sovereignty because it convinces you much more of the measures of the Government of Spain. Or not. Or not. Do you tell me magic? Look, if you were consistent that you have read the records of the Transport Authority and the meeting on the seventh day, you would have to make it very clear. Here we can discuss what we want, what we want, through GNP, through motions. But the decisions that are taken here are not decisions that are imposed on a government, and less so when they have to be taken to the forum where a coordinated policy is to be discussed. Or don't we want coordination? Or are we not aware that here we have territorial and local competences in public transport? Mr Martínez Zatón has dedicated himself to being here discussing for seven minutes the issue of the Sustainable Mobility Act. Hey, he'll be here, he'll be here. But now you're saying the 16-year-old theme with a little more fierce warrior. Because this is the question of compulsory secondary education, listen, it seems to me already, in the end, a little surreal everything. Look. We bet on progressive discounts, because that fairest measure of wealth redistribution. Because what happens to Mrs. Larrea with a 13-year-old boy or girl, if free for 12 years down? What about the 13th, if your family isn't of economic potential? What's going on? What do you pay? Is that not accompanied or accompanied? The parents decide that at the age of 12 they accompany, and at the age of 13. Listen for the art of (birribirroque?)). Well, no. Well, no. And let me tell you that things here, when it comes to money, and public money to invest, we have to think about it and study it well. Because the measures that the Government of Spain has put in place are short-term measures. Or does anyone believe that this gratuity in Renfe is going to stay forever? Not at all? When someone intends to take a measure and I understand Mr Fernandez de Betono that what you propose to extend gratuitousness to the age of 12 has a character of permanence, it will be necessary to study what are the consequences, the implications, how much money, who pays the round. It's just who pays and how to pay the round. And I keep saying, either we respect competitively the territorial distribution we have in public transport, or what we are doing here. Institutional disloyalty? I believe that the measure that is to be adopted today, that of the Basque Government proposing these progressive discounts taking into account the use of public transport, taking into account the economic incomes of public transport users, without a doubt, if the implementation of that average is achieved in all public operators, we will obtain a magnificent measure for families and for public transport users. Because ultimately, what we have to care about is that more than the use of public transport, rather than being an option, it must be a habit, it must be a habit. And in that we are all involved: children, young people, older people, families. We're all involved. I just hope that we can really put a little more rigour in the approaches sometimes, and let's not go to the headlines. That by the way I did not say, he said, it was Mr Martínez Zatón who said that we were looking for a headline. And I haven't been looking for any headlines, but I've been put on the track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, from there. Your word. Excuse me. Only me a little to lower the tone of the discussion. I think we have a lot of things in agreement on this point. I think that around progress and Mr Fernandez de Betoño, when he came out on the second round, we have, I think, a wide agreement in the policy we have to make around the tariff. I told you we didn't let it go, and that's how you confessed. And besides, Mr. Urtara, the mayor of our party, proposed that way in the Gasteian bus Board Administration Council. You've said that with how many shades it's made, that it's correct, and that it's not only for those children registered to the Gaste. And we don't reject it, but we agree, and we say that in our rectification we must respect the alduties and the councils, and that we should give them a cheer in lands and in the Eukadin transport command, we must make our decisions there. Whatever you propose today, or some other. I would therefore value the accounts which we share, rather than those which are absent from us, because I believe it to be a matter of importance. And to explain it to you, I wanted to put it on the value of the Gipulia system, because I think it's the best thing right now. He had been assembled in the government of the Gipulia Fordin, but all of them, at the time when the head of Tapia was a deputy, had started the system for a little clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. We will discuss the original text of another proposal than the EH gathered together as a team. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 26; contraries, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u32	Not accepted. After that, we'll vote together for the whole crew of Podemos, the left-to-left Division. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 26; contraries, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u33	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the eucalypologists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 40; the contrary, 32; the abstainments, and the whites, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u34	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The Companion of the popular Euscal Group-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group-about the attraction of the microchip's industry. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gil, representative of the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. We are bringing to this House today a non-legislative proposal on the attraction of the microchip industry to Euskadi with two objectives. On the one hand, to put the debate on the table and, on the other, to promote government action with a very concrete proposal. A debate that, surprisingly, no one has raised so far, despite the fact that the shortage of semiconductors at global level is an issue of the utmost topicality and that is today substantially conditioning the development of the Basque industry. The paralysis of the largest factory in Euskadi, Mercedes, is well known to all. But its effects on the telecommunications, computer or household appliances industry are also less known, but very relevant. Note that only one vehicle requires at least 30 microprocessors, and if the vehicle is high-end because it needs about 150 more or less. Given the novelty of the subject, and in order not to catch the Government or its ladies and gentlemen cold, we have already introduced this matter into a question from the plenary on 3 June this year. And we were surprised to see that the counsellor did not take the opportunity, did not take note and did not take the matter seriously as it would have been expected of a responsible Government, but that - as has already been customary in other topics - what she did was to collect what little is already being done about it, especially for some private projects, including citing projects that only touched on this theme of replay to get done or look like it does package, try to seem like something is being done. But what worried me the most about the counselor's intervention was that she said that in Euskadi we already had the basis to develop this kind of industry. Because, of course, in the nationalist Euskadi we always have everything and before anyone, of course. I don't know how to qualify it. Conformity, the already classic self-congratulation, perhaps ignorance. Anyway. It's just, look, it's not true that we have enough ground or that we're doing our homework. The reality is that it is a subject to which we have so far turned our backs. And if not, we can count on the number of initiatives that have taken place on this issue and compare it with the number of initiatives that have had other issues that we have discussed in this House to the point of satiety. And it is true that in Euskadi there are some projects - almost all, by private initiative - that work some aspects directly or indirectly related to microchips. But let's not mix barbecues with merinas. Fagor Electronica, for example, is a company that, when we talk about this, is always quoted repeatedly. It's a company I know well because I worked there as a consultant; the Electronics, as they call it in Mondragon. It is true that he works with microchips, but they are of discrete component. They are not the ones who now have shortage in the market. We don't care about the rest of the projects that were mentioned. In the case of Graphenea, it is the company that studies graphene as a driver, not silicon, which is currently a driver in the market, and which will continue to be it seems that in the near future. Farsense is dedicated to wireless sensors with radio frequency identification technology, which need not have silicon insert. Or Nanogune, as we know, does not currently investigate anything related to semiconductors applied to industry, although it does carry out basic research that affects this and many other sectors. And outside of Euskadi how is the matter, how is the matter? We know that some entities that are going to be key to PERTE Chip are the Barcelona National Supercomputer Center and the integrated photonics and quantum computation departments of the Polytechnic Universities of Madrid and Valencia. And, of course, there is frustration and concern that no research centre or Basque university is seen as a key to this process or is a direct beneficiary of it. In particular, taking into account the volume of public investment in R & D by the Basque Government, which does not again translate into relevant results in a research niche of both route and microprocessors. They once again condemn Euskadi to be the head of the mouse. That I understand that this is a complicated issue, that it is easy to confuse and it is easy to confuse the population. But let's get to the point, let's get to the point. We need to face reality and the Government to put its batteries on, to shake the tiredness and exhaustion that it often transmits and leads to Basque society in order to achieve a certain position in the medium term. Because on this issue you compete at a very high level... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and lead Basque society in order to achieve a certain position in the medium term. Because on this issue it competes at a very high level and in a very serious way. I repeat, our aim is to put this matter on the table in order for the Government to take it seriously. And we do this not because we have dark party interests, but because Euskadi needs it. We are seeing how our annual GDP loses weight in relation to national GDP. We are seeing how the traditional industry, which has been our economic engine, our competitiveness factor is reduced year after year. We're watching our most emblematic companies leave Euskadi. And since we arrived in Parliament, I have been asking the Basque Government for something very elementary, active and passive, but it seems that they do not understand, because I do not say it to them in Basque. We have been calling for a strategic plan for overall competitiveness, i.e. the answer to the million's question: how Euskadi will compete with other regions of the globe in the medium and long term. If the competitiveness axes of the past no longer serve us we will need alternatives, and do not answer me with the 50,000 mini sectoral and small plans, because that is not the issue. We need to generate alternatives to compete in the future with other regions of the globe to generate wealth, because now that they are all running to see who is the champion of wealth distribution with tax rebates, which are undoubtedly necessary, but in many cases they are opportunistic, it may be necessary to remember that wealth before it is first distributed must be generated, that the work of a government is first, and above all, to create conditions for wealth to be generated. And on this subject, which is the main one, you are taking very bad notes. I'm sorry, I've got a teacher's vein coming out. And that is why we need to create new areas of competitiveness in Euskadi, so in an exercise of responsibility and commitment we propose a concrete alternative. We are proposing that you get into the car of one of the most future industries in the world: the semiconductor industry. Let them do what they have to do so that in five or ten years' time – even if we are no longer here, neither you nor I – Euskadi will have a solid foundation in one of the most strategic sectors. But that is why we must start working today without dragging our feet, without merely quoting with complacency the little that some lucid entrepreneurs have already begun to do on their own, in an uncoordinated way, by the way, and with not much support. At the control plenary, the counselor told me a good joke. He told me that to install a microchip factory in Euskadi it needed 20 billion. No, look, what (?)Intel has spent that on two factories in the United States does not mean that the investment threshold is there, but, come on, that even reading – even if it is superficially – my proposal, you will see that I am not proposing any factory, that a factory be set up here. (?) Better still, because I am aware that we are far from that, that we are still very green, and that right now it would make no sense. What I propose to you is something very simple: that you start as a government, that you take the bull by the horns, and I repeat, that you lead and coordinate – and forgive for redundancy – Basque society towards that strategic goal that can be a good alternative to our galloping competitiveness priority, unless the government tells me that it has other better ideas, in which case I am silent and happy; the problem is that I do not hear them, I do not hear any new alternatives. And I do see that other communities with less technological attractiveness and public participation in this sector are already taking advantage, joining the Government's LOST and launching pioneering projects. We welcome the Councillor's commitment, in response to our control question on 3 June, to make efforts to integrate Euskadi into the semiconductor industry, a commitment which we value and which we will follow closely so that it does not remain in rubber water. However, unfortunately, we are late. In other places they already have the investment and the associated viability plan, while here we are still trying to wake up the government, and thinking about how we converge business interests to enable a viable project. Since June, which was that intervention, not a word about the development of that plan, of that commitment. And it is true that the summer is in the middle, but on a subject like this, we should not neglect the commitments, as a matter of urgency. We are a very small region with a small economic weight, although we sometimes create the cousin of Zumosol. We cannot work alone, and if we want the different actors who have a weight in the sector at international level to risk their money to generate here wealth and employment for our Basque society, we need them to find good reasons to invest here, to find a welcoming system, an interesting economic system, a sufficiently open social system, and their role as government is precisely this: to create those conditions. It is not appropriate to waste too much time, because the world is caught up in a crazy race to master these kinds of sectors, and the opportunity is going to pass right away. Right now this matter is clearly led by Asia, more specifically China and South Korea, which have been strong for years, and which continue to do so with announced investments of more than 500,000 million between the two. The United States has announced more than 15 billion investments, and Europe is trying to get into the car. Brussels moved a few months ago by publishing the so-called European Chips Law, a Community rule that aims to boost the sector throughout the region, mobilizing €43 billion over the next decade. Figure, on the other hand, almost ridiculous if we take into account, for example, that South Korean Samsung reported that in the next five years it alone will allocate 300 billion to semiconductors. The Spanish PERTE with 12 billion euros aims to make a gap in the value chain of this industry, but if we do not put the batteries, the residual crumbs of this business that arrive in Europe, will not arrive in Spain, and those that arrive in Spain will not arrive in Euskadi. But today on this subject we have good news. The first is that when we saw the initial amendments of all the groups, we saw that there was a coincidence that it was an issue, it was an opportunity that had to be taken advantage of. We are pleased that everyone has felt like a good idea, and we believe that the momentum must be harnessed. And the second good news is that as a result of the above, we have reached an important compromise. And I have to start here by saying that the negotiation with Mikel Arruabarrena, with Gloria Sánchez and with David Soto has not only been... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Of the above, we have reached an important compromise. And I have to start here by saying that the negotiation with Mikel Arruabarrena, with Gloria Sánchez and with David Soto has not only been easy, but has also been pleasant. So, thank you for your generosity. Generosity that today allows us to propose to this House four fundamental points. On the one hand, that the industrial and research ecosystem related to semiconductor technologies and applications will be strongly strengthened, and work to enable the participation of Basque companies and technology centres in projects that could be candidates for both the European PERTE and the Alliance Industrial Alliance for Processors and Semiconductor Technologies promoted by the European Commission. Two, which urges the Government of Spain to take into account in the implementation of this PERTE the specifications of the Basque research and industrial ecosystem, which has a model of own governance in the field of R & D and which is highly specialized in sectors such as machine-tool and automotive. Three, which, in order to achieve these ends, the Basque Government will intensify and accelerate contacts with companies belonging to this sector, acting as a coordinator to facilitate the creation of synergies between public institutions in the research field and private companies, both national and international, and to identify opportunities - which I assure you that there are - for Basques in this sector; as well as possible alliances of Basque companies with other national and international companies involved in this sector in which we cannot go alone, nor can we be an oasis, nor can we be isolated, because here we have to capture technology that is rapidly being generated throughout the world, we have to attract professionals - who are very scarce and highly valued - and we have to capture resources, which are now flying like a herd of bison at all speed throughout the world, to improve the situation of Basques in this sector. Finally, the Basque Government and other institutions involved are called upon to promote research into and application of circular economic criteria in this field as well. I believe that these are four reasonable and sensible points, which I hope the rest of the groups will also support, and which allow us today to convey to Basque society a powerful and clear message: Euskadi is committed to the modernization of his industrial sector, looking at a fundamental strategic sector that undoubtedly has a great future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Eubertarians team... No, I'm sorry. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerz. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselor. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. According to the first part of your speech, Mr Gil, anyone would say that there has been an agreement, especially with the groups supporting the Government. In any case, I must admit that the initiative is indeed relatively new, in the sense that it has not been under public scrutiny or under political debate until the covid crisis, in the first place. And as a result of the crisis of the covid, and now also the war, the invasion of Russia from Ukraine, and all that geopolitically involved all this, also the crisis in the global supply chains. One might wonder, in any case, why these crises, once they have happened, are generating what they are generating. And here, for our part, we would like to point out to you that, in a way, it has a lot to do with the policies applied since the 1980s; that it is basically to derive the production to remote places of this type of element, as well as the extraction and stratification of certain resources without any limit or end. And that right now too - then I will come to that - ecologically they are very conditioning the level of development to which you want to lead us. Europe's position has gradually been losing weight since the 1990s. Right now, on the microchip market it represents 10% on the world market. And, of course, the European Union, as you have rightly pointed out, has for a few years considered it necessary to regain its own positions and capacities. In fact, in the update of the Industrial Strategy 2020, the European Union already points out the loss of capacity mentioned to it, and that this has resulted in a strong dependence on the outside. But, as I said, this is also the result of certain policies which have considered that hydrocarbons and cheap raw materials, as well as production in places where wage conditions were worse and, therefore, cheaper, was the economic model that had to be maintained and in which the voracious mercantilism that you have often defended had to persist. Curiously, it now proposes that the state, the state, the public administrations, have to apply the story, because they are late, and innovate and plan the economy. And in this regard, it considers that the Basque Government has not done its duties, because it has not been able to see the risks of relying on the outside on this particular issue and that, therefore, it should have done, as I said, those duties, in order to have a good record, a long time ago. In that we can agree, but it is quite contradictory with his trajectory, let's say, ideological. We therefore agree, indeed, that new consensus is needed. Hence, let us say, this agreement; a consensus which you too now join in on the need to articulate public innovation and leadership mechanisms for the development of sectors such as this, which are strategic. And I do not say that, as the report you mentioned in the original proposal says. It says: "The European Union's investment plans must consider a global context of strong state support for the sector in other regions." That is to say, you have mentioned, indeed, China and places where public investment is essential for the development of these kinds of strategic sectors, but this report links it with the need for policies here, also in the European Union, to be implemented, I will not say the same, but at least they do involve public leadership and innovation for the development of these sectors. And so, I'm telling you, it's a little contradictory. Some self-criticism should be made with respect to their ideological postulates if they have taken us to where they have taken us. I also share with you one element, which is that one of the great weaknesses of the European Union in the development of this sector is that it has never approached virtually the entire value chain... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... one of the major weaknesses of the European Union in the development of this sector is that it has hardly ever addressed the whole value chain in the development of this type of technology. And it is that normally here if something is produced within the framework of micro chips, it is always under the umbrella of the design developed in other regions. That is, the conceptualization and design of that technology elsewhere and here, in any case, the production of it. And in that sense, the LOST - which you in your original, by the way, did not mention. I do not know whether it is because it is the Government of Spain and linked to European funds, but in any case - the PERTE does address the four strategic axes that would cover the development of this entire value chain, which is the design, design, production of chips and dynamism of the manufacture of these electronic products. And all this, placing the public sector - as I said - with a central role in the dynamism of it. And we think she's right. Even so, it is true to say that PERTE itself says: "the semiconductor sector is characterized by a global capital and R & D intensive sector with important entry barriers due to the volume of its investments and the sophistication of its technology". That is, even if we put a lot of effort from the public and a lot of will to develop these technologies, and besides, you said in a small country like this, it is highly complex to invest and bet and also risky. It must be done, but obviously always looking at the real possibilities of its development and at the specific niches in which that possibility of development can be found. It is not a matter of saying here that we are going to launch, say, conceptualization and design in the microchip industry without any previous approach. And in that sense, I can tell you that I share the view that a plan should be drawn up, not so many different varied plans and also normally developed through a consultant external to the Basque Government, but that there should be a concrete plan in relation to this matter that was sufficiently large and relevant. And in this sense, we do consider - and that is where we come from - the fourth point that has been added in the compromise - and that is what we wanted to draw with our amendment. And that is that as far as the circular economy is concerned, we do believe that there is a development space in Euskadi in relation to the microchip sector. Because in Navarre specifically this is developing. It was recently announced that a private initiative, the result of the Government of Navarra's impetus, would seek to establish a plant for the recycling and refurbishment of components of renewable industry and also related to the world of microchips. In fact, in the budgetary debate this year, we raised a heading relating to a rare-earth treatment plant. And we thought it could be a space where we could work and where we could technologically develop the sector in the Basque Country, because there is no experience within the framework of the State like this - yes elsewhere and it is being successful. And I say that in Navarre recently it has stood on the table as a real possibility with private and public investment. And therefore, we believe that here could also be a space to develop. And that was the result of the amendment that we have recorded and that, well, to some extent has come to be included in the transactional. Because, Mr Gil, regardless of whether we are trying right now to develop both energetically and industrially and technologically this type of productive sector in a more sovereign way, that is, more autonomous and less dependent on the outside. The reality is that there is one element that must be borne in mind and that is inescapable, and that is that we are no longer in the age of abundance, nor energy, nor in terms of raw materials, nor in terms of production and consumption. And therefore, it is also not a question of deriving the production that has been done in other places over the last few years here, because it is also impossible in both biophysical and productive terms. And therefore, it is also necessary to accompany the development of this type of technology in the territory of an ecological and sustainable vision. In this regard, we believe that it is also important to introduce the circular economy's view on this issue. Moreover, thank you for the opportunity given to the parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita to contribute to the transactional, so that we can include a point. And otherwise, of course, we must show our agreement that there must be an impetus on the part of the Basque Government for this sector in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u38	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u39	Good morning, everyone. Today, we're talking about half-mad chippers. And though we all know what this is, I think we need to make a little introduction. The chips are everywhere, they surround us. The sparks are at this moment anywhere. There'll be sparks in front of you on this machine. There are sparks on your computers, on your phones, on these screens. There are sparks everywhere. And now, from the weight of the electronic weight in the world, the chip is the essential component of more and more products. By the way, let's say that the post is coming from the form, because, after all, it's a series of female lamellae. It is also called semi-tributors, because of the physical properties that have material to do it, and that the activity of electricity is variable. That's why they're called semi-mads, and they're usually done with symmetry. And in today's society, they are the indispensable elements of any technological production. And if, as we all know, we follow the press, there is now a lack of it all over the world. During the Pandemia several elements of the stock of microchis were stopped or diminished. After the pandemia the petition was rebalmeded. Then he multiplied. And besides, the technology of our society is increasing, and the demand is in itself to become more and more intense. [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...the technology of our society is increasing, and in itself the demand has a tendency to become more and more numerous. We've got a problem, we've got too few shots, and that's what's brought us so many problems, and the others, without going too far in our own factory, have stopped, not small factories, but some of the most potent ones, connected with auto-making. Klaro, if we need a chip in front of it, will easily solve it; Let's do more shots. And an incluus may think: Let's do those shots. But it's a very complicated market. It's a very complicated product. And there are very canned laughs: and the knowledge that the economic laughs have to be distributed into − and the laugh of the technology, and the know how the −, do not improvise. So it's a complex market. In the world world, as has been said, the production of the chip is ovised by today-gaurz Asia. Not mentioned in Taiwan, but Taiwan is the first producer, only a Chinese company does 54% of the world's chip. If we add to it what Samsung does between two big companies, between 74% companies, between two companies. Europe, also mentioned, is doing 10% of the world's chip today, two decades ago, 20 percent. And at the end of this decade, if the plans are made, we're the −esceptics right now, but if the plans are filled, we want to get that quota back on the market level, Europe on the world's level, 20% of the world's chip. It won't be easy, as has been said before, because in that race there are different competitors. At the present day, the strongest are asiatic, but the United States also want to have a paper in this film. The United States have announced 50,000 million investments, and the European Union, apparently with some difficulty, but it is answering. The European Union has announced the Chip Act, with which they will give an umbrella to all the policies which seek to develop in this area. And that goal I've just mentioned is proposed to get to production of 20%. And the other, the direct investment, the connecting of other funds, is also proposed in the research department, and an alliance is also formed for research on microchipping and processor technology. Well, we are proposed to be stronger in the original proposal in the film world. And we have to say that we don't know (... that we did not know what we were going to do, nor know how to answer this story as a people. Then what we proposed in our correction was to use the symbol of the public. We don't know what the eupscal economy should be in the chili world, but we proposed that − jakinda and the importance of the matter, what it's taking and what it's going to be taken, the public we thought would have to activate a conversation with interesting sectors. With them, with those who know in this case, to define which of us will be our role. Clearly we won't be giants in this world. In the original proposal, Popular Party said that we wanted to interfere in the ultrabio extreman, too. It seems that only today in the world a company has a monopoly on this technology, and the value of that technology is predicting that it will arrive at the rate of 50,000 dollars. I mean, it's going to be a lot bigger than our raw internal product. So it's hard to plan a world where we're going to concentrate on leadership. Now we must face the problem from two dimensions; one has never been mentioned before: Like consumer. We must also confirm that our hundred producers will have a supply of supplies enough. And even from another carril, we have to figure out how to get in. I think it's more appropriate for Mr. Solse in his interference, that is to say, I'm a hole, where we can be stronger in the whole chain of values. For, obviously, as we are in town with microchips, artificial intelligence, and so many other things, we can't play a role as leader for our size and a thousand different factors. But that it is true, as in many other cases, we can find a gap to profit our potentialities, and make them strong even in a part of the chain of values. And that's what we proposed. We have seen at last that many things have been improved in the proposition which has been agreed upon, compared with the original proposal. We're not invited to join the interviews, so we won't sign it, but we'll show our side, because, after all, we think that so many things that bit a little bit off the original proposition have been removed and others that were the lawaries have added. It has been removed from what I said earlier, from the potentiality of the ultrabiotography, because here I think it's not very large, that's gone. And he came in, of course, a quotation from PERTE. It was logical at the moment to share in other dynamics of Europe as well as the Chip Act and Europe, but it is also logical that those billions of 11 billion which will be activated in the Spanish state should be tried by that PERTE too. Things are moving in Europe. It has been mentioned by Intellectual to make investments in America, even in Europe, and it will open a factory in Germany with investments of 17,000 billion euros, in France another factory will open. And things seem to have begun to move. And as I said, that's what you get in the middle way you finally got. You have to talk to those who know most about it, you have to talk to the company, you have to talk to the science and technology network. We must examine what are our strengths and our weaknesss in this sector. And we must define amongst all of us, with those who know most, what are the chances that are opened to us, both to the new dynamics of Europe, and also to the thread of PERTE. So that's what we thought. It is a pity that they do not appear in the midst of the medium where the alliance of the Basque alliance is finally established, because we think it must be for the first time and once for all this conversation should be given. But if we see and see the need, between the actors and the protagonists, we can give this conversation a permanent character, and an alliance of its own in a permanent manner to continue to make the state and evolution and improvements of this sector, and also the alliance which Europe has proposed and excited... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... that the alliance which Europe proposes and enables it to be open, in order to continue the progress of the state and evolution, and the improvement of improvements, is to be shared by other such operators. And we thought it might be possible to improve an instrument in this position, discussion, and dynamic. It won't happen, it won't be tested, but the door won't close. And if the sectors and various motives see the need of it, the door is open there. And I'm out of time. I thought I'd be out of time, but I'd like to go deeper into all the things Mr. Soto said about me. I'll use the replica for that, because I think so far I've made a fairly technical and cold exposure, but behind this− and behind what's going on there are very deep political phenomena, and we won't understand anything if we don't study in all the changes that are being treated in the world. And I'll tell you now, as an escilator, that what's going on with the microchip is another sign of the end of the global neoliberalization. And in the end, we're gonna put jokes in pieces and we're not going to see the problem as a whole. As we say, if we examine an elephant with a microscope, we shall see something strange, but we shall not have an idea of what really is before us. And do we have to do this exercise, not just (chucklestly? ) (... ), because if we do not do so in many things we shall have great anxiety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u40	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u41	Yes, thank you very much, President. Semiconductors are essential for the functioning of our modern economy and society. And as we pointed out today, this morning, the chips are everywhere. The shortage of semiconductors worldwide, triggered by bottlenecks in the supply, originated, first, during the VOCID-19 pandemic, and by the war in Ukraine, has demonstrated in Europe the need to accelerate the autonomy of chip making. In 2020, more than a billion microchips were manufactured worldwide. However, the European Union has only about 10% of the world market share, and is heavily dependent on suppliers from third countries. In the last two years, in the European Union, there have been significant delays in supplies, which have had negative effects on key sectors, which in turn have affected significant delays in the repair and maintenance of essential products such as medical equipment and diagnostics. This shortage of semiconductors can produce chain effects and can affect critical sectors such as health, transport, energy, defence, security and space, which can jeopardize the European Union's ecological and digital transition. This is why measures have been taken to prevent such a situation at European level, in order to strengthen Europe's semiconductor ecosystem in order to avoid disruptions in this semiconductor supply chain and to promote the development of own state-of-the-art manufacturing capabilities, with measures to allow coordinated monitoring of the semiconductor value chain, avoiding risks that may affect this supply. The European Union aspires to play a leading role in the design and manufacture of the next generation of microchips, up to two nanometre and lower nodes. And that is why the European Union has made the strategic commitment to reach at least 20% in the value of world production of cutting-edge, innovative and sustainable semiconductors by 2030. And they've been taking steps for the past two years. In July 2021, the European Alliance on Technologies, Processors and Semiconductors was launched in order to identify these current gaps in microchip production and technological developments necessary for companies to thrive, increase their competitiveness and digital sovereignty in Europe, as well as address the demand for this next generation of safe and energy-efficient and powerful chips. This partnership will strengthen cooperation among the members of the European Union, offering safer and more competitive solutions in processor and semiconductor technologies. In February 2022, the European chip law was proposed in order to ensure that the European Union strengthens its semiconductor ecosystem and increases resilience, and ensures supply and reduces external dependencies. This law should also lead to additional public-private investments of more than EUR 15 million. And these investments will complement existing programmes and measures within Horizon Europe and the Digital Europe Programme. More than EUR 43 million of investment, driven by policies in this area, will support the European chip law until 2030. It will be based on the strengths of Europe, and in order to ensure that the European Union has the tools, competences and capacities necessary to become a European leader in this area. To this end, it is important to have a coordination mechanism between the Member States and the Commission to monitor the supply of these semiconductors, calculate demand and anticipate this supply shortage. And in this line, the Government of Spain has agreed in May 2022... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... demand and anticipate that supply shortage. In this regard, the Government of Spain agreed in May 2022 to approve the strategic project for economic recovery and transformation and semiconductors, the PERTE Chip, within the framework of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The aim of PERTE Chip is to strengthen these design and production capacities of the microelectronics and semiconductors industry in Spain in an integral way, and to promote the European Union and national strategic autonomy in this sector, in line with the European chip law. And this strategic project is expected to mobilise €12.250 million up to 2027, financed from European funds under the recovery plan. It will also deploy political-private collaboration mechanisms, with particular emphasis on this need for coordination between public administrations, industry, universities and research centres. Of course, in Europe they have given particular importance to the necessary coordination that must exist and to obtaining correct information from Europe in order not to make mistakes again in this area. We do not agree, therefore, as proposed by the EH Bildu group, Mr Casanova, in supporting the existence of a Basque alliance of semiconductors. What we need to go through, as we have seen, is a coordinated work, all in Europe, and integrate and help our companies integrate precisely within this European partnership, and they can also participate within the European PERTE, into strategic economic recovery and transformation projects and into this European alliance. That is why we have made an important effort. We believe that this initiative was worth an effort, because I think we all want to work on the same line. I think it is good that we unite, make efforts to reach a consensus, and I think we have. Although, Mr Gil, of course, as Mr Soto has said, listening to you in the first part of your speech, it would seem that this work to get to the transactional has not been as easy as it has actually been. We have worked well and comfortably to reach that compromise, because I believe that we all agree that it is necessary to strengthen the ecosystem of our companies and also to facilitate their participation within the European PERTE; and then to take into account the specificities of the Basque industrial research ecosystem; and then also the importance of that coordination work, which, as I have said, has great value and is given great value at European level, is given great value at national level. And here we have to make that effort, in that necessary coordination work that facilitates such synergies and opportunities within Basque companies, in order to get into and become part of all that project and all that European-level intention to become leaders in this regard, and to prevent these shortages from happening again. But for that, coordinated work, the joint work of all, to benefit us all at European level, at state level and at the level of our autonomous community and for our businesses, is very important. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u42	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarras, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressman, good morning. Well, we've got a lot of consensus. We signed middle-class with Podemos, PP and Ciudadans, and then Collector says he'll say yes. So I'll give Mr. Gil most of the time to calm him down. In fact, he was very worried and very negative. In the state or in this case, I'd like you to take care of me in the economy (... because it is. And so this is funny, I'll try to reassure a liberal, to say no, that it's fun when we're doing it, and that we have a pretty little class of dirigism or interventionism in this sector as well. So I'm going to go that way. Well, there is a consensus - it has already been said - almost total, not only in this House but in all the West, the European Union and also in the United States, to re-produce chips in both Europe and the United States; because, as has also been said, today there are more than 70% between Taiwan and China, and there is a latent threat of Taiwan invasion by China, there is also a commitment by the United States to defend Taiwan militarily. And, therefore, a hypothetical war in that area would lead us to a total or almost total supply cut, with dramatic consequences for the economy. That's already been said. Euskadi is very specialized in automotive and machine-tool, and therefore it would be a technological blackout for us, for Euskadi and for the world. And secondly, it's a hypothesis that none of us want to handle, but if we're at the door of a third world war, war material also requires a lot of chips. I'm saying it's a very unpleasant hypothesis for everyone, but it's also there. Therefore, both from the point of view of security and from the point of view of the economy, we would be faced with a terrible hypothesis, which we hope will not happen, of course. Well, well, now we're all convinced that... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... We would have a terrible hypothesis, which we hope will not happen, of course. Well, now we are all convinced that we need to increase chip production in Europe. Now, how do we do it? Well, Europe passed at the beginning of the year the European Chip Law, which had three legs. On the one hand, increasing direct public aid by 12 billion... €43 billion. Almost 10 billion would go to the Spanish State, which will be responsible through the PERTE through the Economic Recovery Plan, for aid from Europe. Secondly, deepen training to have women workers who are able to design new generation chips, which are of great technical complexity. And thirdly, thirdly, let's say, improve the instrument that directs private investment in a much-needed sector of capital. Because producing chips must always be done on a large scale and it is very expensive. Now, I, in part, do not know whether I am going to explain or try to justify a little bit the action we Europeans have had. Because the European Union, rightly or less correctly, decided 30 years ago that it would be the Asians who would produce chips. And there's a market logic that I think we don't have to hide, and it's that chip production is five times cheaper in Taiwan than in Europe. In other words, technological sovereignty, which is impossible in all fields, in this particular case, costs a genuine amount of money. Mrs Tapia said here that a chip factory costs 20 billion euros. I don't even want to imagine how much it will cost to make 25 factories in Europe. Now, what to do, what to support, go against the logic of the market, how to do so many times and it is healthy to do so? As for example, we do in the first sector, where we subsidize our farmers and our farmers to have a certain percentage of sovereignty, in this case food. Well, doing it in the chip sector, is it necessary? And, well, we have realized that coming from Taiwan as it is highly advisable to predict and put the tirite before the wound seeing a hypothetical climb in that region. Seeing also, recently in Ukraine, that wars usually come unannounced and escalate very quickly once started. So, well, it's a European reinforcement strategy, but Euskadi does have a foundation. The counselor said so, and I'm going to try to dig into it. Euskadi has three research centres. Mr Gil said: "It is that in Madrid, Barcelona and Valencia there are lines of research that universities are already active in this field, and so on." I think a research center is almost better. A research centre is the same, but it adds public institutions and private companies. The logic of a research center - and Euskadi has three, CIC nanoGUNE, Ikergune and Tekniker - the logic is to investigate applied technology. Es decir, si lo que queremos es what we want in a mid-term or for a short time, we have to investigate there. The university will perform its protagonism or its percentage at three centers of research. That's very good. But what you have to do is apply the technology we have to investigate and then pass to production. I used to say, superfluous, technological, very expensive. And, well, Europe has decided to do it in this sector, and put a fortune on the table. These fortunes, as I said before, will be directed by the Spanish State through the PERTE. And I don't mean to make this worse in Spain, it's not my intention. But it is true, that what we have here is not the rest of the community. What we have here, say three small companies. ), and there are none in the rest of the community, where there were three divisions of inquiry: And so we have a strong foundation to attract money to, so that we can get those scholarships. They won't be enough, but they'll have a lever and a private sector to make that bet. And now, as to the intervention of the teams, I have discussed to Mr. Gil that there is already an intervention from the state, and that therefore it may remain quiet as a liberal. Mr. Soto, with what he said quite agreeing. (... ) It amused me with that Macron appointment. A report of the end of redemption... He announced the announcement, and, well, I thought it was very curious, but I quite agree. And I quite agree with what Mr. Casanova said. Mr. Casanova says that we must make a forum or a Basque treaty. I agree with philosophy, and I believe that an association is necessary. But I think that there is already this alliance and that forum, or that treaty. In three research centers, I repeat, private companies, public institutions, and colleges participate. I do not know how often the assemblies are, but the assemblies are probably made with great frequency among the three parties. And so there's that permanent forum and it's already working. And therefore we need not see that by any new decree we can create any other organization or forum. There is, and that must be strengthened. And, above all, keep in mind the new bets that come from Europe. That's what we agree with. And in conclusion, we may say as a brief, that the imperial threat of China opens new possibilities within the police camp. And we're going to value those opportunities from Euskendi or the funk, to attract money support, and to get the sector... To fertilise a new sector of part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The team that hasn't issued any corrections. [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in part, to fertilize a new sector and a new sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The one who hasn't ruled, Mistto-Vox. He mustn't speak. So we're going to take the answers round. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u46	Thank you, Madam President. The transaction I signed did not include any renunciation of the opposition's work and the opposition's own work. It is not my way of understanding the agreements; it is neither the way of understanding the role of this Parliament. They signed a transaction. Doesn't mean the intervention here has to be a massage. Of course, we will have to continue to do the Government's impulse work, won't we? But we do agree that it is not time to emphasize the differences, which are logical, but rather to insist and underline the agreement that has united us, which I believe is a great opportunity for all. Let us bear in mind that the microchip sector this year is going to have a worldwide growth of 13,6 almost 14%. I repeat, this is a great opportunity for everyone. And I understand that we have to take advantage of it. Well, I don't know. Mr. Soto, I didn't say we had to plan the economy, did I? Those are words that are in his head, not mine. What I have said is that the Basque Government does its job, which is that it has to create the conditions for the development of the economy on its own. Nor have I said that public resources should be generated or devoted to coordination and leadership. What I have said is that the Government does its work by coordinating and leading social and economic actors. Finally, we have not included, we do not include, in the initial proposal, that of the LOSS, because when we did it - as you know - it had not come out. Then the others were able to do it, when they made the amendments, they were able to do it. But anyway, to the point. Here we have a great opportunity in which it also seems that we all agree. And what we have to do is actually unite the hands, unite the forces. I would say, Mr Arruabarrena - a small shade, if you will - it is not just about taking advantage of the money that comes from Madrid - which also - but that here we take the bull by the horns, we coordinate - I insist - what we do. Okay, there's (?) research centers doing directly related things... No, indirectly with the subject of chips. I understand that we have to do a job of focusing more on that research work. I mean, if we bet on this line, you understand that we have to bet thoroughly, we have to bet seriously, we have to focus more on this research work, we have to coordinate the efforts of all the agents, of the companies that have some connection with this sector. Because I repeat that here we have an opportunity to build a powerful sector in the medium and long term, which, of course, we have said before, I think we all agree, we are not going to set up a microchip factory in the short or medium term. We certainly don't have the capacity to do that. I wish I did. But we can contribute in an auxiliary way, in an important way in other respects. And no doubt the best way to get into that sector is through research. It's the way – I'm about to say – cheaper, because the other one is expensive even though it's not cheap, huh? But it is true that we have to bet here on research and we have to do it, we have to focus the efforts of the research agents that we have in this matter in order to obtain patents and to obtain competitive advantages that will enable us to generate an ecosystem, a breeding stock through which we capture not only economic resources, but - as I said before - talent, professionals, etc. And we can turn Euskadi into a reference - to our size, to our modest extent - in the microchip sector, which can replace the decline of other competitive axes, such as industry, the primary sector, etc. So without further ado, thank you all for your efforts for consensus and congratulate us on having done so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u48	Good morning again. Mr Gil, I would ask you - what happens that you can no longer answer, I am sorry - but I would ask you how it is possible that what you propose without market intervention has not happened; that is, how it is possible that the microchip or semiconductor sector has not developed in Europe over the last decades. Mr Arruabarrena replied: because the public sector has decided to do nothing and that in principle where this sector will develop is where it will be most economically viable. And now that balance is being invested, because the development of this sector is considered strategic. And therefore, the public has to enter to lead and effectively coordinate the development of this sector here. Even if it's more expensive economically. Good. And then, if it is more economically expensive the rules of the neoliberal market that you defend are not being applied: the public is intervening because there is a strategic sector that needs to be promoted by the Basque Government. So I want to say that this is the reason why this sector in the Basque Country has not developed in recent decades, because it has not been chosen by the public. And it was not chosen, because – today even Petronor's president said it in an interview – because supplies were considered safe, because the end of history came a few decades ago and because of course no problems were going to happen in the production chain. And we will be able to continue to buy cheap oil, cheap hydrocarbons, cheap raw materials and produce in places where it would be cheaper to produce. And that looks like it's over. That I do not know if we are at the door of a Third World War - as Mr Arruabarrena proposed - but what we are at the moment is practically a Second Cold War. In which the world is moving towards two blocs and where it is clear that Europe is arming itself in the face of the possibility of lack of certain strategic and structural elements in the economy to produce and continue to maintain a certain level of well-being. All this accompanied - you do not agree - with the necessary ecological and energy transition. No, you disagree, because you consider that this should be the private sector's hand. You will tell me what it is going to be like with the private sector that over the last few decades, by energy transition, the only thing you have understood is to reap and accumulate benefits. I am not so clear in any case that the consensus on this situation is as strong - as Mr Arruabarrena said - at European level, or even at world level, let's say, in the part where we have had to live... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... that the consensus on this situation is as strong - as Mr Arruabarrena said - at European level, or even at world level, let's say, in the part where we have lived, because we cannot bet on, for example, now that OPEC has cut oil production, what can happen. And the truth is that I understand that what is going to happen is that it will increase the price, it will increase inflation, and the banks and governments, probably also Europeans, start to implement contractive measures, which will mean lower overall output within the framework of the economy, which will mean lower demand for oil, which will mean – then, in turn – a fall in oil prices, but energy producers by lowering oil prices will again increase oil prices. I mean, this has already been seen repeatedly in the context of successive crises, and now we are looking at it again, we are moving from European funds and from expansionary policies, to now interest rates, to increasing interest rates, with the expectation that this will reduce inflation, which is also generating inflation by supply, by a shock in supply, not by demand. So, finally, I am not so clear that there are certain consensus in the Western framework on how to get out of the crisis. I believe that there is more ideological debate on this issue, and that we are likely to continue to make certain mistakes than (?) lead us not to continue to bet, or not to bet on leadership from the public and from expansive policies, and to stay behind in relation to certain countries that, of course, systematically violate human rights, but as far as economic development is concerned, they have in certain matters much clearer where the priorities are, and where the defences of their interests are, or how to defend their interests. I believe that, unfortunately, the consensus in certain frameworks at European or supra-state level is more of Mr Gil's rope, than probably of the majority of this parliamentary arc, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u50	Two brief clarifications, and then the promised deep reflection. As to the clarifications. Well, you, Mr. Gil, (?) It says that no mention is made of PERTE in its original proposal, because it had not been published. Indeed, I have consulted it, it was published the day after, but it was planned to be published, and I believe that perhaps it was not very graceful for them to value a proposal from a government of another colour, perhaps if it had been with the previous government, if they had made it known and called it, in addition, the Rajoy chip project, to make a little bit of the play on words, but well, I don't think they'd be interested in talking about that much. And about the Basque alliance of semiconductors we did not even categorically propose it, but left it as an open option if the agents who know about the sector determined that we would have to permanently structure this dialogue that you yourselves recognize in your definitive proposal that will be articulated. If you are talking about talking to the sector, well, that is what we were proposing, and we leave the door open for a Basque alliance not to replace international European projects, but to complement them, because precisely in the European Alliance, in its declaration and in its accession forms it provides that precisely this type of local alliance or local structures or local governments can be part of the European Alliance. Therefore, it was a proposal that remains open, just as they reconsider it, the same in the future can even be carried forward, right? But he said that there was a fundamental reflection, because, in fact, I share with Mr Soto a bit of the stupor that causes us to see one of the adalides of neoliberalism in this Parliament calling for an economic planning of a transcendental productive sector. And what you are proposing is that the state with public money should lead the economy and recognise an absolute failure of the market when it comes to self-organising, and it has left the European Union, in this case, out of stock with a fundamental product. And it's not the only surprise we're having these days. He has already commented the other day on a radio programme that we have seen how for the first time in history a radical tax drop announced by the British Government has resulted in not a euphoria in the so-called markets, but precisely the collapse of the pound and a fall in the confidence of the markets in the European Union..., sorry, in the United Kingdom thinking that they had gone out of line and were tightening the rope too much and could even be broken. So, we are witnessing what is called a paradigm shift, a global paradigm shift. And I, look, in the end, I'm going to run out of time because I wanted to give a thought. That is, we talked a lot about paradigms, but I crossed over many years ago with a book called The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, where precisely the concept of what is a paradigm in science is established, in which we talk about a period of normal science under the cover of an explanatory paradigm that begins to have a series of crises when that paradigm is exhausted in its interpretative capacity, there are beginning to appear additions, annexes, corrections and exceptions to the paradigm, and in the end, the theory becomes so complex that it comes to collapse and is replaced by a new paradigm, and there is what the book calls scientific revolution. And we talk a lot about paradigms in economics, in politics and it has its origin in this epistemological reflection. And, indeed, we are facing a change in the global paradigm, because the paradigm of neoliberal globalization is failing in front of our eyes, because it was based on premises that were – have been proven – false. I was thinking that cheap energies would never be exhausted, that material resources would never be exhausted, and that people's patience would never be exhausted, and the three of them are running out. And, moreover, as a conclusion, I also thought that since that growth was going to be infinite, and that there was going to be everything for everyone, logically, this was going to be done in a harmonious way, because everyone was going to benefit. But, we come to a time when the struggle for resources begins, and microchips is a stage or an exponent of that struggle for resources, such as rare lands, such as silicon itself, such as oil and other energy resources, etc., etc. And we're witnessing a geopolitical fracture, that on the one hand. And, on the other hand, we are witnessing a scale of economic developments that requires planning and strategic direction at a broad level to be able to cope with technological investments and material resources to develop technologies that are essential for artificial intelligence, for microchips, for the transition from automotive. There is a need for strong public leadership at a sufficient scale to activate intellectual and economic resources that can enable a level of success. And, I finish, because I finish the question by saying that within our framework, within the framework in which we are, that can only be done by the European Union. The European Union is at one of the least legitimized moments in its history by the failure of its model and by the failure of its policies. Because the European Union has not become a... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... moments of less legitimation of his history by the failure of his model and by the failure of his policies. Because the European Union has not become a guarantor of rights for the citizens of this union, but has often become a guarantor or an artificer of cuts. So much has to be changed in this European Union, much has to be democratised, much has to be made a guarantee and an extension of people's rights so that we can trust that European Union and put in it the will or confidence that it can lead the processes of economic transformation. Because, if not, we are going to run out of voice and vote in a global context in that of multipolarity we are going to move to a bipolarity in which we are really going to be excluded in our geographical area. And that's going to have serious repercussions. And another day we'll keep going. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u51	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u52	From the seat, President. Well, I think what we have is to congratulate the broad agreement reached between the Basque Nationalist Group, the Basque Socialist Group, the Elkarrekin Podemos Group and the PP-Citizens Group. Because it's in the line of moving on the path we've been discussing. And it is clear that the COVID-19 pandemic and the war in Ukraine have rethought many things that up to that time were organized in the economy in a way. And we have seen that we cannot be so dependent on, at best, the production of certain necessary and essential products in other countries, because then there are bottlenecks that give us situations of shortages that can lead us to major economic problems and to the closure of our companies. That is clear and there, and steps are being taken to change that situation. I believe that the compromise amendment is in line with that of supporting Basque companies who want to enter these new possibilities, these new production routes as well. And also in using those European funds that come to us through PERTE Chips to get on that line. And also keep in mind that we, as we have said, have specificities of the Basque research and industrial ecosystem that we have here, that can help us, but we need to continue to make coordinated progress in order to improve our position in this sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u53	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mr. Bareas, from there. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u54	Yes, if you please, Mr. President. Well, thank the teams who signed the media. Yes, Mrs. Sánchez, Mr. Gil and Mr. Soto, and Mr. Casanova for the consent vote. Three very brief reflections. Soto made a review of recent years, of the performance of OPEC, of central banks, of the interest rate. Well, it's a macro-economic debate that's for a long time. What I hope is that the European funds, which are now entering, will continue to enter and finally be invested before there is a paradigm shift, as Mr Casanova said. I believe that postmodernism, Mr Casanova, is not so much about paradigm changes as there are many paradigms. Before there was only one, now postmodernism leads us to the fact that everything is questionable and there is not a single reality, but that each one is built depending on his or her speech. And secondly, you commented on the Basque alliance and that the Basque alliance, a hypothetical Basque alliance, could participate in a European alliance. I have researched a little about the European alliance and I thought I understood that it is not so focused on public institutions or, let's say, initiatives where public institutions participate, but rather on tractor companies. In Europe we have a large tractor company: ASML, the Dutch photolithography company, the subsector mentioned in its original GNP by Mr Gil. And then we have a lot of middle-sized companies. Unfortunately, we do not have a great variety of large companies in Europe. Well, it will have to be strengthened and it will have to be studied whether, in fact, Euskadi - by the hand, for example, of Fagor Electronica - can make, let us say, a kind of alliance aided by public institutions. But I do not know whether the approach you have given to public participation in the European Partnership is entirely in line with the approach of the European Partnership. In any case, it is an interesting idea that the Basque Government will certainly be able to analyse. Just like that. We have an opportunity. So far we can activate a sector that's been sleeping in Europe. And let's take it as a choice. There's a date in Eukadin, three companies and three research centers. Let's take care of these six actors, together with my Eukong, these big amounts of money, these funds that come from Europe, bring them here and create employment and resources for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u55	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll put Euscala P PopularCanos together Podemos-Left-Norica, Eukal Sociialists and Eubertarians to rectification. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; opponents, 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0; 0,0,0,0; 0,0,0; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u56	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium is accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal as a parlamentary group of Mistia-Vox, concerning the application of economic social security to the Basque. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Martínnez, who represents the Mistto-Vox team, has an initiative to present and defend... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, good morning, everyone. Spain, as set out in our Magna Charter, is a rule of law that safeguards the equality of all Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u58	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u59	One of the basic pillars that serves to guarantee the principle of equality is the existence of a national social security system, which was born with the aim of ensuring social and territorial cohesion. Perhaps the greatest exponent of that principle of equality that our Constitution protects is what is known as a single box: a mechanism that guarantees a set of equal benefits for the entire national territory. In December 2019, PSOE and PNV reached an agreement to invest Pedro Sánchez as president of the government. The text agreed on the transfer of the remaining powers to the Basque Country. Subsequently, a schedule of transfers was agreed, which highlighted, above all, the agreement to transfer the competence of Social Security to the Basque Country. The transfer of this competition meant an unprecedented agreement in the more than 40 years of democracy in Spain. An unnegotiable transfer for all the previous governments and presidents of Spain, since, historically, it has been considered an untransferable and untouchable competition. Untransferable and untouchable until Pedro Sánchez arrived in La Moncloa, where the limits do not exist, even if this is against the general interest. The transfer of Social Security is not merely a transfer of buildings and seconded personnel, but involves the transfer of part of our sovereignty as a nation. It involves, from a pen, quarting national sovereignty through the parceled transfer of more than mere competition. It means launching the political message that everything can be broken in exchange for remaining in power, even part of our sovereignty as a territory. It presupposes putting personal and partisan interests before national interests. It is the reflection of the claudication of an entire system by the assignment of a substantial element that unites and equals us as a nation. In short, it is a prize to the constant and perseverance of the permanent blackmail of the nationalists before a weak government, which is considered authorized to yield a part of the sovereignty that belongs to the whole of the Spanish. The transfer of competence from Social Security is the jewel of the crown to which the Basque Nationalist Party has always aspired. It has been that desired and unattainable love until Pedro Sánchez arrived in La Moncloa. It has represented that permanent desire that the PNV considers essential to support the political regime that it has instituted during these four decades in the Basque Country. It represents one of the main cornerstones for the consolidation of the current regime, and it is also essential to continue its national construction process. Without a proper social security system, the Basque nation to which the PNV aspires would simply be inviable. Construction of the Basque nation, which has apparently suffered a stoppage as a result of the crisis we are suffering. But the PNV, even at a slower pace, even slowed down, continues gradually to build and do what they call a country. The lehendakari has recently given a one-month deadline for the formation of a joint committee to address the issue of outstanding transfers. Since the PNV, for decades, the political message has been transferred to a greater number of competences, to greater self-government, more well-being for the Basques. And since Vox we are going to strive, despite all the difficulties, to prove that the above are simple myths sustained, that is, in a good marketing policy. What you call self-government has neither served the economic take-off of the Basque Country nor supported the leadership we enjoyed in previous times. It served the contrary: to lose leadership and the preponderance that we had in previous times. We defined this during the general policy debate: the management of the skills transferred over these four decades has been like the core of the stamp. The last chapter is the competence of prisons, whose management is being a real chaos. In addition, the government adviser, Mr Jaime Tapia, recently said that the autonomous government will need two legislatures to implement what you call the Basque prison model. Therefore, not even from the management perspective, the transfer of Social Security would be positive for Basques, also taking into account the service sheet preceding the PNV. Of course, the most important thing with this transfer is pensions. The Basque Country has the highest pensions in Spain, with an average pension of 1,200 euros. There are currently 564,000 pensioners, compared to 930,000 employed persons, i.e. fewer than two workers per pensioner. This situation is also going to get worse, according to all the demographic projections we are seeing. This creates a pension deficit of more than €4 billion per year. A real hole that would put in real danger the recovery of their pensions for the Basque pensioners. The Basque pensioners receive their pensions thanks to the solidarity of the rest of Spain, and thanks to what is known as a single box, which is the real guarantee of the equality of pensioners throughout the national territory. Thanks to what is known as interterritorial solidarity, Basque pensioners can receive their pensions every month. Thanks to the solidarity of the rest of the Spaniards, the Basques have our pensions insured. In addition to the above, the transfer of Social Security is legally and operationally questioned by an internal report of the agency. The report states that the transfer of competence contravenes the basic principles inherent in any social security system and guarantees the equality of all citizens, those of unity, equity and solidarity. It also notes the above-mentioned report, which would mean that the exclusive jurisdiction over the basic legislation and the economic regime of social security which the State has attributed would be null and void and would therefore be contrary to the Spanish Constitution. The report alludes to up to nine sentences of the... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... the economic system of social security which the State has attributed and would therefore be contrary to the Spanish Constitution. The report alludes to up to nine Constitutional Court rulings that endorse the exclusive competence of the State in the management of the economic system of social security. The rulings of the High Court interpret the exclusive function of the State Administration as a channel to ensure the unity of the system, even beyond its legal regulation, trying to avoid its territorial fragmentation. In parallel, and from the management point of view, the report warns of its inconvenience by warning that the divestment of powers to the autonomous communities would increase the complexity of the management of the system and its operational costs. The breakdown of the current social security system would considerably increase management costs and would undoubtedly have very negative organisational consequences for its functioning. As mentioned above, the Constitutional Court has no doubts as to the ownership of the economic system of social security. The High Court states that the Constitution has not merely established inter-territorial solidarity, but, on the basis of it, has established and imposed the unitary character of the system and its economic regime and, therefore, the exclusive competence of the State, not only of standardization, but also of direct availability over own funds. We are therefore faced with a Leonine agreement that has no legal basis or political sustenance that can support it. We are faced with an intractable and unacceptable political agreement for the Spanish people as a whole. An agreement that harms and endangers the pensions of the Basques. A pact that puts at risk the quality of life of our elders, which endangers the well-being of those who with so much effort and dedication have earned a decent pension that assures them a future without shocks. An agreement that represents an emptying of national sovereignty to its only depositaries, which we are all Spaniards. An agreement that breaks the concept of solidarity between the different territories that make up Spain. An agreement that undermines the principle of citizen equality, to which we are not prepared to renounce as a nation. We cannot afford luxury as a country to transform the equality of all into a privilege for a few. We cannot admit that a single and equal national system for all citizens is transformed into 17 different, simply so that Mr Sánchez's government remains in power. From Vox we will defend an equal social security system, which guarantees interterritorial solidarity, an operating and effective system, a system that protects the pensions of our elderly, a system that responds to the needs of the Spaniards and not of their rulers trapped in their partisan interests. In short, a system that is a good reflection of the fact that national sovereignty is non-negotiable and non-transferable and that these sole owners are, of course, all Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u60	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over to the teams who have issued the corrections, the representative of the popular Basque Group-Ciudadans, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Amendment group and I do not know if it is almost the only intervener. The proposal brought to us today by the Mixto-Vox Group refers to social security, specifically the economic system of social security. Since it is certainly a complex issue, it has legal, economic and so on, I think it is very positive that we should make an intervention that we will divide into two parts: firstly, I will highlight what the legal framework is for what is social security in a broad sense; secondly, I will deal with what is the constitutional jurisprudence in this matter, and then I will highlight what are the principles that the People-Citizens parliamentary group and, first of all, the People's parliamentary group has been defending since the beginning of the autonomous state, since we have the Constitution, since we have a social security system. And in the second round, I will focus mainly on pointing out some of the issues raised by the proposing group in its speech. Good. First, the Constitution provides in article 41 that the public authorities must maintain a public social security system for all citizens. A social security system that guarantees assistance and benefits that guarantee a decent life on the ground. That is a guiding principle of social and economic policy. And it is up to all public authorities to develop this issue. It follows from Article 149.1, paragraph 17, that it is the State's exclusive competence, that the State, i.e. the central institutions, not the Government State, which is sometimes used by some discourses, especially nationalists, to confuse, one thing is the State, another thing is the central Government, are two different things, that the State has exclusive competence in the basic legislation and in the economic system of social security - this is important: the economic system of social security - without prejudice to the execution of its services by the autonomous communities. In other words, the Constitution establishes two different concepts, and there are three concepts in substance: one is social security, the other is the economic system of social security and the other is the management of the economic system of social security. I insist that there are three different things. Article 18 of the Statute of Autonomy... The autonomous communities all have a Statute of Autonomy, which is their basic institutional standard, as the proposing group surely knows. It is passed as an organic law, although it has a specific procedure for both approval and reform. The Constitutional Court includes it in a concept called the Block of Constitutionality, which is a set of rules that the Court uses as a benchmark when declaring the constitutionality or not of other rules that are subject to its control. This is basic in Constitutional Law. Article 18 of the Statute of Autonomy reads: "In the field of social security, the Basque Country shall be responsible for the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State". Good. "Except for the rules that shape the economic regime of the same", the economic regime remains an exclusive competence of the State. "And it is his responsibility to manage the economic system of social security." Again it is the concept of what is meant by the economic regime of the... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... economic regime remains the exclusive competence of the State. "And it is his responsibility to manage the economic system of social security." Again from the concept of what is meant by the economic regime of Social Security. The fifth transitional provision of the Statute of Self-Government states that in establishing such a transfer, which is not within the competence of the State; the powers are dissolved within the framework of the Constitution and the Statute. It is, therefore, the Constitution, together with the Statute, which in each autonomous community assigns some competence or other. What is negotiated in practice in this country, that the truth is that we are negotiating no longer know if it is about 40 years, what is negotiated in practice is the transfer of economic and material means to carry out that competition. The Statute of Autonomy itself states the way in which the management of the economic system of social security, which is management, must be used in this area, while always respecting the unitary character which - I believe is an expression which is also in the text of the proposing group - must be contained or must be made through agreements. It has to be done through agreements. So what is the situation we have in the field of social security in Spain? A number of benefits are defined within what is understood to be the social security system. These benefits are defined at the national level: in Congress, in the Senate. Such benefits may be contributory, such as work pensions; non-contributory, widow's, orphan's and other pensions; lately the minimum living income, which is also a social security benefit, although it is not contributory. Therefore, the State, which is not the Government, the central State - i.e. the central bodies - is responsible for establishing social security benefits. Secondly, the economic system of social security, which I understand here is where the discussion that the proposing group wanted to bring here, the economic system of social security is also the exclusive competence of the State. The economic system of social security cannot therefore be transferred. It can't be transferred. This has been said by the Constitutional Court in a number of judgments. There are two main judgments: the 195/1996 which, without doubt, the proposer will not ignore, as well as a previous judgment, 124/1989 which, without doubt, is also within the knowledge of the proposer group. And lately, 158/2021, which is related to minimum vital income but which points out how the breakdown of functions in the exercise of competition is, how the breakdown of functions between the central institutions and, in this case, the autonomous institutions, where appropriate. And it establishes it on its fifth legal basis. This is what would be very interesting, which, indeed, as the Basque Government and the central Government have announced, has reached an agreement on the transfer of resources and, therefore, to see what the functions that each administration is going to perform, this is what we do demand to be known, because this is where the issue lies, and this is where we always advocate that what the Constitution, the Statute and, of course, the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court says is respected. In short, what belongs here to the central institutions are: the initiation, processing and resolution of files; and then, what is called matter or instrumental aspects, which are initiation, processing in this case, or which do not have a relationship with the previous ones. That is what belongs to the autonomous communities. Initiation, processing and resolution, together with review and control, must always be the powers of the central institutions. The first three can come to an agreement through an agreement; but above all, what in no way, ever - and this is the guarantee of that concept that you announced before, the one-size-fits-all box - call it transferring, transferring, lending, subletting or whatever you want, what you can never do is the powers of review and control. Because the powers of review and control in the area of social security benefits is what guarantees, in fact, the one-size-fits-all box. Therefore, the system that recognizes the Constitution, together with the Statute of Autonomy, together with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, what it says in conclusion is that Social Security is an exclusive competence. The State cannot be required to do what it cannot do; nor can the central Government, which is what the proposing group does. Of course, the social security regime and the economic regime must be maintained in terms of the competence of the central State, rather than the Government, as you say in the proposal. Of course, it is not possible for the Government to transfer any functions related to this matter. I understand from the dictate or diction of the second paragraph of the group's proposal, in this case, Mixto-Vox, that it is not to be transferred or to be retained, in this case, the single box. Of course I do. The one box is that it can't break either, the one box is constitutionally protected. What's the one box? The one-size-fits-all box is that all social security contributions and assets, in this case the General Social Security Treasury, are affected; that is, they are conditional on payment of benefits. And there has to be a single box; that is, there has to be means, all of them common, consolidated to meet those obligations. And that's what you can't break. That is what forms part of intergenerational solidarity. I believe that the proposer has said interterritorial solidarity, that that is something else. So, intergenerational solidarity and, above all, the solidarity of a country. What's our position? The position of the PP-Citizens Group, which has been defending the People's Group and which defended it in 1993 with the agreement on transfers, the so-called cards of which were voted in this Parliament. Not the Zubia report, which is something else, the cards that were approved that were presented to this Parliament. In the year 95, although there was no agreement, because the two groups that formed the Government, like now, the PP, the PSOE forgiveness, and the PNV did not agree, there was no vote. And also in 2016, through a compromise amendment which, in this case, was agreed between the People's Group and the Socialist Group. He's always defended the same thing. What did you defend? Basically, seven points. Basically, seven points. These seven points I am going to develop in the next intervention, but I now announce that they are seven points that have to do with maintaining, of course, the single box, maintaining interterritorial solidarity, interregional forgiveness, and, above all and very important, respecting what the Constitution and the rest of the legal system says.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. No one else should be involved. So, when you're ready to answer, Missya, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Mr. Gordillo, I greatly appreciate your technical intervention, as well as your particular kind of constitutional law. Of course, as a professor of constitutional law you have no price. But it is true that I have to take the opposite from you, because for Aznar's governments, for Rajoy's and for the Basque People's Party, historically this was a taboo issue, and you know it. Also for Citizens. His turn we're going to prove with the following statements. I'm not going to be so technical, I'm going to go more every day so you can understand it better. Mr Alfonso Alonso expressed in public statements that he believed it was irresponsible to play with the transfer of Social Security. He also stated that he was very concerned, because he assumed the principle of the breakdown of solidarity, which was the goal of the nationalists, and called it an extremely serious matter. Member of your party. Mr. Maroto defined it as an unfeasible transfer. Same as your parliamentary partner. Mr Rivera was saying in relation to this matter, that it is enough of insolidity and privileges. I can go on. Borja Semper said that transferring social security management to Euskadi was a profound mistake. And I'm also going to talk to you about her former president, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, who said: "This transfer is the previous and necessary transfer to break the one-size-fits-all box. And this puts the equality of the Spaniards in check." So, Mr Gordillo, I recommend that you also give special classes to all these members of your current and previous party, so that they can place you a little better in what your parliamentary group thinks. From Vox, indeed, all these statements made by members of their parties, we support it. And you? Have you changed now or are you still backing him? The Constitutional Court has not changed its view with regard to moments prior to these declarations. So, what is your political change in recent times, with regard to your historical position? From Vox we have our own explanation on this. We also tell him with all the respect he knows we have him. But it is necessary to tell them that their change of course responds to the ideological emptiness they have experienced in recent years. And it also responds to the full-fledged follow-up they maintain towards the PNV, in a desperate attempt to be accepted as one of their own. But you should be aware that PNV is a story of betrayal. Tradition in Santoña, betrayal of Mr. Maroto whom the mayor of Vitoria took with bad arts, and tradition of the government of Rajoy, days after agreeing the budgets with his government. So lose all hope, because the PNV will never consider you one of its own. From Vox we also ask them: how would the transfer of the economic system of social security to the Basque Country, as they propose in their amendment, improve? Well, let's explain it to him. First of all, it would be useful for a baptismal ceremony to name it in Basque and present it as well as an entity independent of the national system. That is, it would serve to put berets or if they prefer txapela to the new organism. Secondly, it would be useful for the PNV to subrogate the officials to whom it would discharge its functions and, in parallel, to hire an entire army of plug-in adherents to its ideology. This will lead, in addition to huge dysfunctions, to a remarkable increase in spending, as you know it will be. Thirdly, it would endanger the national pension system and the recovery of its pension by the Basque pensioners. And fourth, and perhaps the most substantial, would be to give nationalism a political victory. It will mean giving the gold brooch to its constancy in favor of the erosion of national sovereignty. It will be the triumph of the strength of the nationalists, and the maximum expression of the weakness of our rule of law. And to that is what you intend to contribute for what we see. So, Mr Gordillo, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party-Citizens, do not open up any spooks that can cause flows that we cannot plug. Do not open a tap to the nationalists whose posterior torrent we cannot contain. And they do not open the way for the plotting of our sovereignty, according to the whims of political merchants, who put their partisan interest before the general interest of the Spaniards. As you see, Mr Gordillo, it is not necessary to stop so much in practice and in (...), but to look to the past and to the future. And we will see what you have always thought, so we do not understand that you do not share what we have requested at this time with our GNP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u63	Thank you, Mrs Martnez. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u64	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that since the rest of the groups aren't going to intervene, they could give me their minutes, because I'm going to need a little more time. Perhaps to influence the ideas that I have previously told, because although Mrs Martínez has had some qualifications that I certainly do not deserve, the truth is that I must explain myself fatal, because what she has said has nothing to do with what I have intended to convey. But good I'm going to point out some of the above issues. The position of the PP-Citizens Parliamentary Group, as before was the position of the People's Group and I again insist on the years 93, 95 and 2016, is exactly the same. In fact, I tabled exactly the same compromise amendment as in its day, in its day the People's Parliamentary Group negotiated - you can ask your group that I think there are people who went through the People's Parliamentary Group - with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It's this one, just like that, just like that. It is also signed by the Socialist Group's spokesman, who I assume will vote in favour of our amendment in this case. What is the position of the parliamentary group that I represent in this case, and which has always represented the two parties that make up this coalition? Look, it's basically seven points. It's basically seven points. First. A system must be maintained to ensure a dignified life, especially for the elderly and especially for those in need, on the basis of a number of criteria, including, of course, capacity, also contribution, and, above all, solidarity. Second. That inter-regio solidarity... interterritorial, forgiveness, intergenerational... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... This is capacity, also contribution, and above all solidarity. Secondly: that interterritorial solidarity, forgiveness, intergenerational – it has already confused me with interterritorial. Such intergenerational solidarity is absolutely necessary and for that there must be clear criteria, which at the moment with the present central Government, the truth is that it is not at all - I believe - fully defined. Because each time we have breakfast with statements different from the minister of the branch. Thirdly, the sustainability of the system. And on this we have already received some warning from the European institutions. The system must be sustainable. Fourth, one-size-fits-all box. There's got to be a one-size-fits-all box. Fortunately, Mrs Martínez, the existence of the single box does not depend on your group, nor does it depend on mine. Assistance to the single box depends on the fact that it is thus configured by the division of jurisdiction, which assures our Constitution and is ensured by the Constitutional Court. Fifth, fifth principle: respect for the institutional framework established by the Constitution in the statutes of autonomy. It's the territorial framework we have. An official for being an autonomous official, he doesn't think about the Basque Country. For being Murcia's autonomic official, what's going on? Is he less loyal to the administration? And now think of the one here. Is the one here less loyal to the administration? Is it less loyal to the citizen? Another thing is, of course, that in this country - I am referring to Spain - and in this autonomous community, which is Euskadi, the subject of transfers is used - as usual - for a clearly political purpose and a number of things are sold. For example, I have heard the spokesman for the Socialist Group say that more self-government is more well-being. Man, I don't know. France is a central, centralized and centralist state, and man, there is no self-government of the regions, no welfare in France? So, different things are getting mixed up. By the way, the concept of self-government that you say - which affects nationalists and other groups - is in article two of the Constitution. Be careful with this, because of course, then you give arguments in favor of the nationalists. If you want arguments, I'll give you a lot of arguments. I am telling you arguments that you can defend them in this rostrum. Sixth place: respect for the jurisdictional system interpreted by the Constitutional Court. And here the Constitutional Court has interpreted the following: one thing is social security, exclusive, exclusive competence and which cannot be transferred or transmitted in any way. Economic regime, which is also not a State competence, is a competence of the central institutions, where there can be collaboration is logically the aspect relating to the management of the economic regime, but not only the management of the economic regime. Here also inspectors (?)). Social Security I don't think so, but labour inspectors, they could have pointed that out if they had been involved. And in seventh place - and with this I finish -: seriousness. This, the issue of pensions, is a particularly serious one. Above all, it is an issue that affects not only those who are now retired or in some sort of situation, but also the rest of the generations. And here, therefore, it is very important, very important and absolutely vital that there be as much consensus as possible, which is politics. That our groups, the two members of the PP-Citizens Parliamentary Group in this case, are still in the Toledo Pact, which is also at the top of our initiative. That is why the amendment to the whole of which we have tabled - and with this I conclude, Mrs Martínez - has to do with it, because there were some misconceptions and contradictions that did not correspond. Single box, yeah. With regard to the Constitution and the Statute, of course. Intergenerational solidarity, of course. But well drafted and in accordance with the jurisprudence established by our Constitutional Court. That is why I encourage all groups, since they have not wanted to intervene, to support our initiative, which is perfectly in line with what has been being defended in this Parliament since the year 93. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Now that the discussion has ended, we shall put the original text of the proposition as well as the Mistatha-Vox team. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 72; in favour 1, 71; abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u66	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the whole of the Basque Team in Popular-Ciudadans. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 72; in favor 6; the opponents, 66; Absences, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u67	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Five point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Jason Aguirre Gartanodia EH Collectors, see the damages which the General Judging Law will bring to us as a people. Discipline and final resolution. Your turn, Mrs. Aguirre, is to make an initiative and defend it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. He began to tell me that I was lying, and that Mr. Zupiria had asked us about the evils which the general law of inspection of Spain will bring to us as a people, when we interjected it in June. And I got really mad. Because I could be wrong, because I could be there, but I don't lie. And not for a moral matter, but for intelligence, because lies are short. Just like that. However, I must confess that I never lied, but that I do not tell all the truth, or say I have not. I was silent. For example, my children thought that until six, seven years ago, on television in our house, there were only cartoons in ETB3, and everything about equivalence: Little Bear, Little Shane sheep, Doramon... in Holan mailbox, ETV style. And I didn't tell them how much I thought or showed them any other TV channels in the house. But of course they went from other houses and... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... show other television channels in the house. But of course they went from other houses, and once they asked me if we were poor. So what? I told them. Well, because they have Disney Channel at the cousin's house and we don't. And, well, I felt sorry for them, and I had to admit that there was also this Disney Channel in ours. And that's where the magic ended, welcome to the world, and Saint Peter's for another day. And also the parents of the Ondarians, Azpeitia, Ochandius, and the children of Aramio, perhaps have experienced a similar experience. They are euccanic townships, and ideals in point of euccany. But since last week UEMA introduced the manchom units of the euscal townships to us at the Cultural Committee, according to the examination of our examination, the television chain which the first children of these eucalyptic townships see most in Clan, in pure youth. And the number of those who see it doubled the number of those who see ETB3 equiscan. According to this examination of UEMA, the students of the Batxiler mostly see the series in Spanish or early age. And it is not because they do not know it, or because it is of a poor degree, or because they would not see it. Let's go to the eucalyptic series, for instance, has been seen in the audience, and according to what UEMA's study also says. Our young people don't see anything about euphoriums, especially because there's nothing to see, especially because there's no production for euphora. You can see everything on a weekend, that 0.01 on platforms. It's not even in ETB1. For the past few months, for example, ETB has spent 130 films, and not a single one of them, all of them young. As the EIB director has it, we've even asked the director because he has his own digital resignation in reserve. In the first act of the Basque Country, like: It's only five sessions for children to be doubled from 573 and with eucalyptic subtitles, 37. It's been recorded in the film regulations that all the performances require youthful subtitles, but it doesn't say they have to be made of euphora. So, in short, I didn't go in or into YouTube or TicTok or anything, but in short, that's what we've been hearing about. I'm going to use a metaphor using the movement of the village in eucatious fashion. This is, as they say, if you put children into the habit of eating tomatoes Orlando, they'll hardly eat the tomato in the house, even if it's ours and better. They're not used to that taste, not even to the texture. So that the children and youths of the euscal townships, from the rest of the towns and cities, become accustomed to look upon each of them with youth, and become more and more alien to them. This could be a lost generation of tomatoes for Orlando. If we ask why, if we ask why it is, we'll probably all agree in its analysis, or at least most of us. But we're not just here to make tests, but to make proposals that will improve our reality. So the most important question is: What can we do about this reality which UEMA's study in the euscal villages teaches us, and which, of course, is to alter the reality of the rest of the towns and cities? If we want to change, or if you want to. What instrument do we have for that? The tools we've had are now a law made for the normalization of the Euska and another law for the Euscal radio, which hasn't changed since then. These laws are our language, our culture, and the instruments we have to protect, strengthen, and strengthen our worth. They have made a great deal of laws, which must be confessed, but are not sufficient for the paradigm which we now have; because we have not the whole of the visible region, which is to govern, and regulate the visible law, though it be possible to do so. Our only regulation is the general law of vision, which has just been accepted in Madrid. That's the real truth. And it is logical that this law is not made to defend our interests, nor is it possible to defend the interests of the independent Spanish cinema. So figure out what you're doing here. This law, by a kind of technical change in the last hour, has raised dust among independent Spanish producers, and its echo has come to Europe. 110. By this alteration in the article, the productors, which are connected with great companies and platforms, will be considered independent, and consequently all the finances of Europe and State will be held in the hands of Mediaset and Aresmedia duopoli. So if the Spanish producers are terrified of this law, then what do you think of the locals here? On the other hand, the head of the Zulus says that with this law the district of euphoria is defended and protected. And how? How do we ask? We won't accuse you of lying, but it's hard to allow the chief physician's arguments to be approved. For, according to Zupiria, the Euscal district will at one time be protected because the control of emissions by the Internet will be entrusted to the euscal institutions. Ah, control, control. And why should a euskal council of absent-mindedness arise for that purpose? Besides, we have that right. But it doesn't even make use of the rights we're in to watch. Secret violence, isn't it? This is quiet autohigation. And we don't understand, but well, okay. Hala was... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] It's quiet, isn't it? This is quiet autohigation. And we don't understand, but well, okay. However, let's be generous and say it's a step forward. But is this going to make the production of eucatic visuals that spreads over the Internet, or will our young people continue to see what they see on the Internet so far? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, And how else? Through what? I think that at last you will see that we need a hearing council, which at this moment is absolutely necessary. And, as often happens to you, you'll find it late and following. Secondly, the law of Spain, by the measures made by EAJ, will not alter the standard of EITB's government. Well, we think ETB ought to change his government without having changed it for 40 years and then. He should change the pattern of naming the general director. He should also change the mode of choosing directors' positions. EIB should also have a policy to protect a professional career. This new law will not regulate it. Besides, this law opens the gates to the privilege of evading information. In other communities, they are very much concerned with it. We're used to ETV: not the daily news, the magacinines, and all the reports are already privatized for a long time. But, for instance, in TV3, Catalonia, which is all news, they are all made at home. And the ETBn incluso cameras, camera services, ETV, they've been privatized for a long time. And with this law, but the daily news will also be possible to privatize, i.e., they will be able to sell. And the buyer is Vocento, yes, Mediaset... What else? Who could buy a news story? And if it be thus received in the Law, it is received in the Law, because some of them have made a singular endeavour to make it so. And finally, Zpiria admits that this law will not make the variety of language as much as you would like. October is the demand given or made to platforms. And so it is, yes? That's right, Mr. Zupiria. And so it is, the Representative of the Eunctal Party, the head of the former. You're comfortable, you're comfortable, and comfort isn't seen in the best way to get to the hinges of the world's fields. For all this we voted against Madrid because it's not a proper law, because it's not a good law for our country, it'll hurt us more than counterpoise. That's why we said no to General Advised Law in Madrid. And therefore we desire that this Assembly of Laws should reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Angulo who represents the Podemos-Nozzer, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u70	Mila esker, mahaiburu andrea. Good morning, good afternoon, Mr. Counsellor, Members of Parliament. Well, I will recall that today, the law that they bring to debate today, that of Audiovisual Communication, was already passed at the Congress of Deputies on 26 May. And I also want to recall that at that time I think it was public and notorious that with the passage of this law it caused a great dissension between our group in Congress and with the PSOE group with which we govern in the State. They preferred to agree amendments with Citizens and the People's Party, which seemed to us - to put it mildly - to violate this law. And while this law separated the coalition, it had a great virtue: that for the first time all platforms and associations in the audiovisual sector were positioned against it. This law is not limited simply to strictly sectoral matters, but also has to do with issues relating to the quality of our democracy, such as the right to true information and freedom of expression itself. Audiovisual and radio communication is crucial in generating social cohesion, spreading the language, creating stability and giving meaning to (...) politicians. And all this also determines the participation of citizens in political life. Therefore, from our position, from Unidad Podemos in Madrid, he was especially involved in the development of this law, and it was expected that it was a law that eagerly awaited the sector, being clear that it should change the harmful aspects that in the previous law he assumed... the amendment in 2012 of the previous law of 2007. However, for the misfortune of the sector, this law that was finally passed does not protect independent production. Community media continue to be subaltern, and they face thousands of obstacles to their continued production, especially free radios. Not in vain, platforms of independent producers, multitude of associations in favor of the Basque, Catalan or Galician, as well as women filmmakers, dismissed this audiovisual law that was approved as a death sentence. This rejection was prompted by a single amendment, a word in an amendment, an apparent modification made at the last moment, and outside the period of presentations, where an agreement had been reached and where work had been done for a year and a half to reach this agreement. This amendment was supposedly technical, but the consequences of this small change opened the pandora box. The word "still" was replaced by the word "said". And this replacement meant moving from the possibility of protecting the independent sector to favoring... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... replaced the word "still" with the word "said". And this substitution meant moving from the possibility of protecting the independent sector to favour the audiovisual duopoly that is made up of Atresmedia and Mediaset. This change was a major blow to independent production and to the sector (...) linked to this production, whose viability is seriously threatened. The famous amendment -790 - went much further than a mere technical amendment, and unprotected the true independents. In Euskadi, this amendment affects 709 truly independent companies, which are in the audiovisual and film sector, as well as radio. And this amendment makes them more difficult, if any, already in a profession which is already quite difficult. I have to say that, after 15 years, the company numbers that have been engaged in these activities since the beginning of the first crisis in 2008 have not yet been recovered. They passed the one of 2008; when they began to recover, the one of the covid came, and the figures are still below the initials. And what does the change of this word mean? Well, it modifies the general non-binding obligation with the provider. By limiting this obligation exclusively to whoever hires you, small companies of large firms, of large producers, can work for large producers on the other hand, distributing the economic capital that would actually be for truly independent companies will, in this case, be carried by large firms. The issue of independent producers is not the only harmful aspect of this law. The new law omits the definition of essential public service issuance for all providers, and has a clearly mercantilizing aspect. Not in vain, it opens the door to privatization on public television, and allows the edition of the information service to be outsourced. Especially in article 72 of the Act, the Act opens the way for the autonomous communities to determine the model of management of the provision of public audiovisual communication services; or direct or indirect provision through the alienation of ownership in the service provider. In other words, it is a law that does not define exactly what public service is, and at the same time allows the provision of essential public service, such as information, to remain in the hands of private ownership. And you know what this reminds me of? Reminds me of the Basque Government's preliminary draft education bill. You see, the same privatization logic of public services is expressed in the same terms in laws regardless of the scope they are regulating. In short, the great problem of audiovisual law is that it is not valid for the sector today, but rather it is useful for the duopoly that has been established. The big problem is that it does not guarantee rights – that of expression, that of information – but treats citizens as if we were mere acritic consumers. There is less diversity with this law, less equality, worsening conditions for independent producers, less plurality, less public service. That's what this law has meant. That is why our parliamentary group also shows its rejection in this House, just as we did in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u72	Thank you, President. I will try to focus the debate, because in the presentation of the initiative itself I have been drawn to the attention that only at the last minute and a half, two minutes we have come to the subject of the initiative. The rest has been issues of other initiatives that have been brought to this Parliament. Even someone might think that it was a second part of the question to the councilman, but now it is up to us to debate the parliamentary groups. Today, here, what is really being raised is the debate on a specific article of the audiovisual communication law. And some value judgments have been issued that fall into error or license, but in any case, wrong license, to judge the whole by the party. Because the audiovisual communication law is a law that was the result of an intense process of negotiation and dialogue with all parties, and that incorporated improvements during its processing in Congress. That law has many positive aspects, and that cannot be denied. It incorporates for the first time general principles applicable to the whole audiovisual field, resulting from the values of democratic societies; in particular, human dignity, the protection of users with regard to content that violates the dignity of women, the obligation to convey a respectful and appreciative image of persons with disabilities, the promotion of linguistic pluralism in Spain and the veracity of information. But it also strengthens the protection of minors, absolutely forbids subliminal advertising, tobacco and electronic cigarettes, as well as that which violates human dignity or which uses the image of women as violatory. With regard to the financing of the European work, this law extends to all providers of the audiovisual television service offering their service in Spain, irrespective of the country in which they are established. The contribution is 5 % on the basis of their annual income. And the promotion of European audiovisual works in works of independent producer is reinforced, increasing investment obligations. As far as the European broadcasting and catalogue quota is concerned, providers of the television audiovisual communication service on request must reserve 30 % of their catalogue for European works; half - 15 % - must be works in official languages in Spain, and of that sub-quota, 40 % must be audiovisual works in one of the official languages of the Autonomous Communities. Providers of the linear audiovisual communication service are required to reserve at least 51 % of the broadcasting time for European audiovisual works. Of this percentage, 50% is reserved for works in the official language of the State or in any of the official languages of the Autonomous Communities. Of this sub-quota, Radiotelevision Española will reserve a minimum of 15% for audiovisual works in any of the official languages of the Autonomous Communities. And also the audiovisual law multiplied by five the obligation of televisions to finance independent audiovisual production in Spain. If I've done this very detailed description it's to manifest... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... to finance independent audiovisual production in Spain. If I have made this rather detailed description it is to manifest how unfair and far removed from reality it turns out to try to rejudge a single law and exclusively by an article. The Government of Spain is committed to the audiovisual sector, as no other Government has been so far. Let's just look at the data. Since the arrival of the Socialists to the Government of Spain, the Fund for the Protection of Cinematography and Audiovisual has been promoted with more than 100 million euros, 102.15 euros to be concrete; selective aid has grown by 128%, to 16 million euros. Aid to the audiovisual sector has increased since 2018. I give you some figures: aid (...?) to production between 2017 and 2022 have gone from 30 to 50 million euros; selective aid has gone from 2018 to 2022 from 7 to 16 million euros. We have created lines of aid that previously did not exist: aid in this case to cinemas in 2020, 13 million; in 2021, 10 million; in 2022, another 10 million; and in total, therefore, 33 million. The increase in investment in production will increase from EUR 70 million to around EUR 250 million under the audiovisual law. In addition, EUR 9 million has been allocated to promote audiovisual creative developments by supporting the laboratories where films are conceived. As you can see, data speaks for itself. No Government has supported the audiovisual sector as much as the Pedro Sánchez Government has. And let's keep doing it. It is a pity that We can self-dislodge these measures that the Government of Spain is taking. And let no one doubt that he has the firm commitment of the Basque Government, the Government of Spain and where the Socialists are to continue to push him. For all this, I believe that no one will be able to doubt that the Socialists continue to row together in order to continue to promote further reforms on the main demands of the sector. In this sense, it has been suggested that the definition of a small producer is not appropriate in this law. And you know what? We think the same thing. And that it needs to be narrowed down more restrictively, trying to clarify the role played by the current duopoly, as has been said, and to shield independent producers, which so many successes are getting inside and outside the house. But this is something that has already been raised by the Spanish Government itself. And you know him. In fact, Minister Iceta himself has already committed himself to achieving a more rigorous and restrictive definition of independent production through the processing of the film law, which will soon arrive at the Congress of Deputies. Because, of course, it would also be important to clarify that while the objective of the audiovisual communication law is to regulate the obligations of service providers, that of the film law will be the regulation of those who are subject to production aid. And this difference is also important. That is why I would like to conclude by calling on all the groups in this Chamber, all of whom are also represented in the Congress of Deputies, to work together in the best possible definition to ensure that our independent producers, the same who project our identity, our way of seeing and understanding the world on all screens of this world, are strengthened and with sufficient resources to continue to reap the great international recognition they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u73	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. Today we have a discussion of the state's well-known litigation law again. And again I say it is not the first. I think it's important to notice or explain all the precedents we've ever had on this subject. In the year 2021, the Basque People were presented with another proposal, which was not at last disputed. During October 2021 Mrs. Aguirre engaged the chief physician. The result of this interaction was that we discussed a motive here. We pointed out that the motion was preventive, and even then the chief physician and we ourselves declared that what we saw in the law project concerned us, or that we didn't like things, but that the law had a long way ahead and that we had to wait for him to see how he would do it. Then the law was discussed in Congress between February and June 2022. And in June 2022, Mrs. Aguirre made another interference for the chief physician. Then the law was accepted. And today we've got the line to discuss after this interaction. And holding the context, I'd like to stop at one of those points, and the negotiation that was either in Congress or around the law. For here the Eucat Party, the Basque Party, and the euscal bands took this negotiation seriously in Madrid, and made great efforts to change what was in the project. What we must remember is that this law is a Spanish law or a state law. And what we did, in fact, was what we did? We filed an alternative text correction which is unusual. Thus we showed how important our party was to this or that law. And that's what we did or did all because the law had something to change. And I myself here, the chief physician here, explained more than once. The law had something to change and to worry us about, especially three: how he was able to influence the auto-engineer, the example of EIB's authority, and how it excited the less language, and especially the eucalyptus. Around the car. The law project put all their emissions under the jurisdiction of the state. So, in the digital area, this bill of auto-gravity was clearly limited by this law. And this we avoided, and confirmed by the fact that we lost no jurisdiction by the acknowledged rulers of the community. Towards the governorship of EIB, the project anticipated that EIB's emission was to be considered as a stately rank. But it wasn't like that with the changes you made. And then EITB will have the nature of public media in Navarro... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... to take their emission as a stately one. But it wasn't like that with the changes you made. And then EITB will have the nature of public media in Navarro. And around the place where the smaller languages have, maybe we didn't get as much as we'd like to, but a few steps were made even by small steps. And even with subtitles there was a step forward for under 12. It's not much, but something came up. And that's what the Jelt party of the Euko was talking about. I'm working on the negotiation. And as I have explained, the improvements of all this work were produced. And that's why the Basques finally voted for that law. Is that our law? No. Do we make this law now? No. Is that the law we'd suggest? No. But is the law today better than the bill? I think I do, no doubt. He said that it is not the ideal law, nor the one that we would have proposed. That it's not our law, that we don't make it ours. But politics, especially good politics or at least good politics, consists in that, in accessing the real, as far as possible. To negotiate and give in. It is often said that the best is the enemy of the good. And we think what we've achieved is good. We are satisfied and satisfied that we have managed to improve a preliminary draft law. Improvements that if not for our insistence, for our work, for our negotiation, for the participation and for the role of the PNV in this negotiation, would not have occurred. And we believe that this is important because we may not have achieved everything we would have liked, but if we did not participate in that negotiation, those few things that have that law that we do not like today would be much more. It would be a law that invades competences, it would be a law that does not respect the governance model of EITB, and it would be a harmful law with minority languages and specifically with Basque. But we prefer to stay and work discreetly to improve everything we wanted to change. Because we could have had an easier, more comfortable position. Say we didn't like it, oppose and complain. But that's not our model of doing politics, that's not our way of doing politics. We have a style and a philosophy of doing politics that consists of negotiating to improve things. And obviously in this law there are still things we don't like. I already said it. And probably one of them or the most remarkable is, as Ekain Rico has already said, the definition given to independent producers. It is not a definition that is in line with what is laid down in the European Union Directive, which is the directive that must be transposed and in line with that the General Audiovisual Law is amended. It does not correspond to the criteria laid down in that Directive to define what independent producers are. And that opens the door to certain producers who are the owners of a large service provider. And against that change we then pronounce ourselves. Well, not only did we make a statement, but we supported the amendment that intended to reverse that change. And we must recognize, and Ekain Rico has also said, that in the last few... Changes have been taking place in recent weeks in this direction. Changes that we, that we thank and that we recognize. It is that a couple of weeks ago in the Congress of Deputies a motion was passed, a motion was debated, and a compromise amendment of the Socialist Party, Republican Left and United Podemos, in which the Basque Nationalist Party voted in favour. It therefore undertakes to make the necessary modifications in order to be able to give an appropriate definition. We are talking about the law of cinemas, we are talking about certain options; for we understand that that is appropriate and that that is the way to go. And in the sense of what that compromise amendment said, we have drafted the amendment by the Socialist Group and our group. And that's what we're defending here today. And what we do not understand is how groups that supported, even if they signed that amendment, will not vote for it today, and have an alternative text. And finally I would like to end with a little reflection. And it is that both the amendment — the original initiative and the amendment by Elkarrekin Podemos, and in the transactional that has come to us a few moments ago, they speak of a risk of privatization. I'd say more of a privatization risk assumption. And I would like to say that it seems to me that it is based on a premise that is false. It's just that there's no risk of privatization. And first of all, there is no risk of privatization, because the EITB Creation Act guarantees that the entity's character will be public. The government agreement, commitment 117, ensures that the government will ensure that the public nature of EITB is maintained. But in addition to all that, which is not a small thing, there is another safeguard, and it is this Parliament. I do not think that with the current correlation of forces it will change, it will change the public character of EITB. Or not, at least, to the extent that our group has an option to avoid it. Besterik gabe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u75	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u76	Thank you, Madam President. The debate... we are going to debate, rather than debate the taking of positions by the various groups raised in the fifth item of the agenda - because I do not know whether we are having a debate or whether there is going to be a debate - because it is practically the repetition of what has happened in Congress with the processing of the audiovisual law. I mean, here all the processing has been a real spurt... I think it's political, and I dare say it's almost legal. There was a directive, in fact an amendment to an audiovisual directive, which was adopted by the European institutions, and therefore had to be transposed into Spanish law. As always, the Government comes late, year and peak late, and then at the last hour, for the haste to transpose the law. In addition, the national law not only transposes what comes from the European Union, but also adds new content. What are the contents? Well, this, in the process of law, was the closest thing... I don't like to use language too flat in this rostrum, I have a lot of respect for your lordships, but it looked quite like a Moorish souk... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...the law was the closest thing... I don't like to use language too flat in this rostrum, I have a lot of respect for your lordships, but it looked quite like a Moorish souk. There were groups whose sole interest was the establishment of grant and emission linguistic quotas. There were other groups that had a concern, which is also a healthy concern, in front of the duopoly. What was strange was that worried about the duopoly, or the monopoly, the oligopoly, outside the parliamentary group We can fight monopolies, the best thing is to strengthen the competition authorities, which often does not do much that group. And there were other groups that were worried because maybe other things, and others that the truth is that in the end they also chose to make some contributions, and a abstention, because the truth is that there was a law left – I'm going to qualify it or I'm going to try to be generous – there was a very strange law. First question. The law first divides the two fundamental groups that support the government, the Socialist group in Congress and the Podemos group. Secondly, it makes them coincide in the vote against the parliamentary group Vox, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, Bildu. You can see that they had many things in common for or against the law, and then, because we abstained from the two groups, among others, that form the coalition of the Basque People-Citizens Group. What a situation this leaves. Here, above all, the law does what it essentially does, in addition to a transposition with a number of elements that it has mentioned before, in my opinion correctly, Mr Rico, and moreover, with interesting data on subsidy issues, it is seen to have good data, perhaps to have good relationship with the Government of Spain, because they are very precise data, which is difficult to locate. What it does, or what it has finally ended up establishing itself in this law. For, basically, after negotiations which, by the way, were quite tough within the European institutions, a quota system will be established. The concept of the European work is established, and then a quota system is established. In addition, which in principle are not linguistic in the directive, what happens is that the law then makes it linguistic for the promotion of the different co-official languages where they exist. What's it really for... And then, the big issue, which is the issue of the concept of independent producers, which as has been well said before, because a last-minute amendment changes a little what could be understood by independent producers, who are not only small producers, but also producers who can be directly linked to some larger, qualified company (?)oligopoly, at last. That's the situation there. The law, what actually can bring us or what should have brought us. The law should have given us clarity in the first place. He didn't make it. It has not pleased the group that promoted it, nor the Government that promoted it, nor the groups that support the central Government. So much so that what is going to be voted on today will come forward, because that is the arithmetic of this Parliament, it is a proposal to amend a law sponsored by the Government of Spain, the Socialist Party, and Podemos, although in the end they voted abstaining. And then the Basque Parliament, the Socialist Group, together with the Nationalist Party, which also voted in favour, proposes that a law be changed that came out in the official bulletin in July this year. Man, I think that deserves an explanation beyond trying to breastfeed twice saying that very well, because we were able to pass a law, and very well because we are able to modify it within a few months. What the... What elements are hidden in this debate, hidden I say because it seems to me a bit strange dialogue. Here the two groups perhaps who would identify themselves as nationalists are talking about one thing, the Socialist group also seems to be talking about something else. Obviously, with audiovisual communication, there is always an attempt to control by different political groups and by governments, obviously, there is always an attempt to control. An attempt at control that is often reflected through the control of public television, etc., the cultural issue and all this, and the linguistic issue as well. What is happening is that today this is almost the orchestra of the Titanic, which continues to play when the boat is sinking, when today young people practically feed on videos circulating on the internet. It is true that some through platforms, but through the Internet in the professions that one finds today, among which are those of the young, to be youtuber, when we find that today also culture, etc., fortunately can not force us to see any channel, and then, because there is a certain tendency to consume culture in a way, let's say, more transversal, because we find ourselves with this. And the problem of this law was what it was: that it was a law that intended, the problem of the law at the national level, the law that passed Congress and then the Senate was a law that intended to carry out a series of actions that did not correspond to it, because what the European directive clearly said was that we had to focus on the topic of the promotion of European culture, not being content with the various partners to add the necessary votes. By the way, this law may have the lowest number of votes record to move forward. It went ahead in Congress with 130 votes in favour, 130 votes out of 350, 130 votes out of 350. The proposed group, which was not exactly what it was proposing, because the debate, if any, is on the other hand, as it recalls once again the Audiovisual Council as a solution to all evils, and so on. Man, one thing is to have media that enjoy the highest levels of independence and quality in the product, even if it is not the majority consumed by the citizenry, which is where the problem is. There are certain groups that want, moreover, that certain products, programs, etc., in certain languages are mostly consumed by citizens. And against that, fortunately, they can't fight. What they are also claiming is that we consume and spend a great deal of resources in that attempt. What public television should do, and what it should do in line with European directives, public authorities, is to promote that there is indeed culture in the different languages that Spain has, of course, and that there is variety. But that's enough to want to compete. And if you don't win because you don't get the share – as is usually said in this area – and try to reduce... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... But that's enough to want to compete. And if you don't win, because it doesn't give you the share - as is usually said in this area - and trying to reduce competition or somehow try to minimize or improve your own position, because it leads to very complicated positions, which is what this law has been. The parliamentary group of Podemos – here called Elkarrekin Podemos – refers to the duopoly, in fact, two large groups, right? Atresmedia and Mediaset - I understand that it refers to these two large groups - which actually concentrate between 80-90% of the advertising and, above all, between a little more than 50% of the audience's share. What happens is that something else is how the audience is measured today. If it's true that we're going this way. Man, what we're saying here is that what really needs to be done is to reinforce the (?) the defence of competition, but above all do not confuse things. Do not confuse and try in a law to introduce payments to partners for other things - as it seems to have happened with the parliamentary group of ERC in the Congress of Deputies - to then get intended support for budgets or whatever. I'm done. What happened to the law passed in Congress and then in the Senate? Well, it ended up being a law, a process, a failure as a law. It was not happy, it was not happy, it was practically nothing, the only thing it did - and that is why the two groups that make up our coalition, the People's and Citizens' Party, abstained - the only thing it does is to prevent a millionaire fine from being imposed on us by the European institutions. That the committee had already begun the proceedings. It's the only thing he does. But apart from that, the truth is that it has failed to meet the objectives that a law must comply with. That is why we are going to vote against the compromise amendment by the Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu Group. And we will abstain with the one you have presented, or the one you have lent from the Government, but with the advance also that these things miss a little, because this where it must really be resolved is in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing the answers, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is crazy, huh? Crazy. You'll work seriously, but this hasn't been very serious. Following the game of truth and falsehood, I will ask you one question: is it true or is it not true that you, the Jelt Party of −Euz, agreed to the general law of visible communication in the June of Madrid? Is it true, or is it not now true, that in your correction I speak of − of the State government, which we have also received from you, in order to obtain an intermediate correction from you, to make changes and adaptations necessary to this law? I mean, you're correcting what you said three months ago that you said yes? Are you asking me to change it? Are you retreating? Are you reviewing it? Can we say it's a self-correct? This, unfortunately, is not the game of truth or falsehood. This isn't serious. In short, it's not serious. On the other hand, about EIB's public nature. You said EITB is public and will remain public. Well, if you've worked seriously here, you'd have read the interpenetration... Well, Mr. Zpiria's words in June. And he says literally: "And as to the public nature of EIB, EIB had the opportunity of evading, and has not done so." He had it and he didn't. I don't know why he'll do it now. We have a law that is ours and we can follow that law. So please explain to me that I'm crazy. And yes. I'll give you the reason. EIB naturally has public character, Mr. Amatifio used to say years ago. And he was a bisionary, he said for his sake, that he and his secretary would be EIB. Everything else has been privatized. It's also public membership. You will tell me how many pieces of public and how many private parts there are. Yeah? And, Mr. Rico, thanks for your summary. And it is true that if this law has many good things and thanks to us, for example, the state or state of the free radio will be improved by a correction made by us. But you can vote for it, not against it. And there are always some things which are right, but this law is in itself a mechantilistic law. It's a law team, a law made for the benefits of great communications. And therefore I ask the members of the Jeltzian Party: Is this law proper for the interests of the people? For your approval does no other favor than that great group of communications in Spain. And these, of course, are neither in our language nor ready to work for our culture. With your approval, as I said, − opens the way to the priorities of public media news. And, like I said, they're still there, but this is the whole patk already. Even daily news can be privatized. If our histories, either fiction or real, are counted by others, then they will be history of others, and not ours. And you said yes to that in Madrid. And now you're going to turn back, you're lucky to realize that in one thing at least it's gonna be fun. And that's why we're going to abstain from your proposal. And even as I have said, because we have fully gathered all the corrections you have made in this medium of ours. But we believe that this legislature ought to reject that law which has just been accepted in the courts of Madrid with the forest of May. We think we should act like a country in agreement. We need town deals in this, too, and we need... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... that law. We think we should act like a country in agreement. People's agreements are required in this one, too. And we're ready for it. And I begin to talk about lies, but I want to end up around truth. And they say that the best friend of truth is time; and in this case time will show us, or I think it is showing the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u80	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, the first thing I have to say is that we don't get out of our way, Mr. Rico. In fact, we demonstrated this on September 14 with the initiative of Esquerra Republicana, where we do support this initiative. And in this initiative, in fact, there are two aspects that we have taken up in our amendment: work and momentum and support for independent production and making the legal changes that are necessary to change the definition of independent producer. There was also support for the increase in the catalogue in the official languages on the platforms, which we also support in the subsequent motion for an inquiry that we approved a couple of years ago. But it is true that thanks to the government of the PSOE, Unidad Podemos has increased from 0.9 to 3.5% in increases for independent production, but to whom will it be directed? Because if it's just going to be directed or it's going to cut the scope of the independents pretty much and it's going to go to the duopoly, because we're barely going with that climb. And it is true that the law has many positive aspects. As I said before, it was negotiated for more than a year and a half on all sides. And from the presentation came out positively, everyone was going to positively support that presentation. It was between the presentation and the voting in committees where it was changed. We too saw changeable aspects, and we made that known in the amendments. User protection remains self-regulation. We have always supported, as we support here the law of the PNV, an area, an entity managing regulation. And the publicity will also be increased, from 10 to 144 minutes. There are many aspects to change, but we were all in the same direction and we all supported the law that came out of the paper. What we do not support is the definition that was left behind. Now, and after the criticisms, the PSOE has opened up to change the definition, and says it will do so in the realm of film law. But film law and audiovisual law regulate different aspects and regulate different spaces; some regulate cinema and audiovisual law also regulate television. And by regulating different aspects, the definition, which is still to be maintained, that of audiovisual law will be in force. At least until the platforms that have taken this to Europe, and have taken it as a fraud of law, dictate otherwise in Europe. Until then, the current definition will continue to be that of the audiovisual law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u81	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Okay. So we are faced with a law with many positive aspects that we are asking to reject today. I don't understand. I do not understand it, and I think anyone who has followed the debate will not understand it. All groups have recognized that it is a law with many positive aspects. I have devoted much of my intervention to one by one explaining to us. And of course it has them, because the Spanish government, the government of President Pedro Sánchez, is behind it, which has a clear stake in this sector. And we've tested it with data, not with occurrences. No, no, with data on the investments that are made. That's why it's important to recognize where we're going and not to do excessive theatricalization exercises. Because one can be - and in that I absolutely agree - according to major aspects of law and against some. Obviously. All laws can be improved. But, of course, to ask for the rejection of a law when we have just said that it has so many and so great positive aspects because I believe that it is something that will not be shared by any citizen. Above all, because there is one element - and I said it in my first intervention - which is the definition of independent producers, which is true that through the sector it has moved that it is not well collected. Good. And it's not that the groups have changed their minds, no. Mr Iceta, Minister Iceta, on 22 June in the Congress of Deputies already explained what the way could be. He placed it in the film law that will come in this year's Congress of Deputies. And that I hope that all the groups sitting in this House will also support..., I take the opportunity to ask for the vote in favour of that change in that law. And it is not true, Mr. Angulo, that it is the PSOE who says that this change of law has to be made in the film law. No, no, It's you, too. And it's also EH Bildu. Yeah. Because I think they're happening, I don't know if they don't have the data, or if they've wanted to go through it or obviate it, it's that this has just been discussed in the Congress of Deputies. It's just that it hasn't been discussed in Congress of Deputies in two weeks. And our amendment, tabled by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, is point 2 of the amendment which was adopted by PNV, by the Socialist Party, by Podemos and by EH Bildu. Literal. Literal. Therefore, that amendment which says "in this sense, the future law of cinema will conform to that definition" is what Podemos and EH Bildu also propose. And I think this is very important to clarify... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... is what Podemos and EH Bildu also propose. And I think this is very important to clarify. Because if we see what that debate was in the Congress of Deputies, it is difficult today to fit some of the things we have heard, and, above all, what has been written in the compromise amendment: that rejection of the law that no one asked for in the debate in the Congress of Deputies just two weeks ago. Also, no mention, of course, of any possibility of privatization, because, moreover, they know that this is not the case. In other words, the law even - if you go to the law - was talking about the funding of Spanish Radio Television itself; that is, public entities. And there is an article that speaks, and it is referred to - and you know it, I think you know it, and if I don't explain it to you - for the autonomous communities, whose only possibility of having a public entity is through certain outsourcings, because they don't have the sufficient economic resources that we can have here. But my partner from the Basque Nationalist Party commented. We have a law on the creation of the public body that guarantees public ownership. We have a government agreement, of course, that although the government agreement is very well below the law, it is also very important, which guarantees it. And we have a parliament, which is the best firewall for any idea of that style. Therefore, to create a certain alarm in this sense seems to me to be nothing in keeping with reality. And man, I, then, that. And to the People's Group to tell you to think about it, because in the Congress of Deputies you voted against this which you are going to abstain today. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u83	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u84	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mrs. Aguirre, I'm grateful to you for addressing me at least for the second round, because you've given the first round to the chief physician, and you said the interpelration in June. You had time to discuss with us today, and maybe we're not your type, but today was the time. That was the time. And I'll answer the questions you asked me. Yes, it's true that we voted for the law. That's true. But no, it's not true. I don't know if it's gonna be a lie, but it's not true that we're asking our correction to change that law. No. We demand that we make necessary reforms of laws. What law was mentioned in Congress? The law of the cinema. And what did I say here on my shift? The law of the cinema. So I don't know whether it's serious or not, but it's not serious to come to a discussion, when the second round is planned, and what we're talking about here is not taking any notice of. So that's what's not serious. It's not serious. That's not what we're talking about. You also said that on your first shift, we're comfortable not to change anything. Well, in this matter, specifically, you've been the ones who haven't changed anything. We've worked, we've negotiated, we've come to the agreement, and we've changed some things. I said when I first participated: We may not have changed them as much as we would have liked to change them, but we've changed things. You didn't change anything. It's very comfortable to complain, but you haven't changed anything. And you know that. And you know that. You also talked about privatization. I think it is important to insist, important to influence - Ekain Rico has also done - that there are mechanisms, there are firewalls, there are guarantees to keep EITB public; all those we have listed. But it is also that ez dakit gezurra izango den, batha egia dena da 2010eko Legeak, 40.2 artikuluan, ezartzen zuela aukera berdina. Aukera berdina. Oraingo legeak ematen duen aukera berdina. Beraz, oraingo legeak ez dizkio ateak irekitzen. Ateak irekita baldin bazeuden, aurretik egongo zirens, bathe law honetan ateak ez dira irekitzen. Ez will say irekitzen. Eta esan duzu abstains emango diozula gure zuzenketari. It was just that it was missing, because what would not be serious would be voting 15 days ago one thing in Madrid and today the opposite. That's what wouldn't be serious in any way. Eta Elkarrekin Podemi, it seems to me that it is important to note that this law went ahead, among other things, thanks to the abstention of his party. And that they come here today to warn us of an alleged risk of privatization, which I have already said is not assumed because it is not real... It is not true; I do not know if it will be a lie, but it is not true the risk of privatization... when your group in Madrid has not tabled a single amendment warning of the risk of privatization. So we go back to the same thing: they are ways of doing politics. If you believed that this law had a risk of privatization, you could have tabled some amendment that would prevent it, and not come today to submit a compromise amendment to a motion to ask the Basque Government - because it is much more comfortable from your point of view to ask the Basque Government to demand in Congress - that the law have these guarantees. But, I have already told you, the guarantees in this country, we have them: they are the law establishing the body of this Parliament and also the government agreement. And also the government agreement. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Euscalal Popular-Ciudados, he mustn't speak. [[Pause]] End of discussion... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... After the discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, and together with Podemos-Nozzeral corrections that have been signed by the Animal Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 26; rivals, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u86	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. And next we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists, the Eucalists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 40; the opponents are 0; abstainments, 33; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-10-06.u87	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. And since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two-and-twenty.
