ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. And I'll start reading a statement. "A declaration of the Parliament against the attacks of women. The Eusgian law strongly condemns the murder of Maria Luisa, who has been the victim of another act of violence against women. The parliament presents its support and sympathy to the relatives of the victim and to the nearest relatives. The Basque Parliament condemns the violent death of María Luisa Larrañaga, as well as any manifestation of violence or sexual discrimination against women. We understand that gender-based violence is the most serious expression of inequalities between women and men, resulting from women's power relations and submission. The Basque parliament demands the people of the country to adopt personal and collective commitments to the equality of women and men. In like manner, since we have the responsibility to wrest these institutions from us, we demand that we have our integrated plans, provided with the means necessary to make the violence of women disappear once and for all. So that there will be no other act of violence against women, and still less of murder, such as Maria Louisa's wife's life has led." We'll have a minute's silence next. [[One minute's silence]] Before we proceed with the list of subjects, I remember that the parliamentary River Iriree has the vote in his spokesman's hand. First point in theme list: "Punish another proposal of the law of Parliament, concerning the accepting of the Myrgical Confederation as a subjective right. Discipline and final resolution. It's your word, Mr. Otero, representative of the EH Collector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. As always, an honour and a pleasure to be spoken of from this amusement. And, furthermore, to begin the usual discussions of this learning, or these essays, and, how not, with a subject connected with energy. And when I came to think of it, many of you will know... I don't know whether to start with a note or a note, do I? I don't know. A lot of you will know, Platinum, the ancient Greek philosophers, the academies... and at the door of this academia, they seem to say −halda, they put it on: "Let no one come in here who does not know of geometry or does not know of any interest?" I'm sure we'll have to start with a note like this, from the circumstances. "Let's not let anyone in who's bored by the energy issues," because I think important events behind each other are going to take our full attention, don't I? The subject of energy, and the reason, from international policy to the last citizen of our country, the uncertainty, weakness, preponderance, and longness, will not it? No, we start talking about energy twice, but it's true, incluusus, that we haven't been first in this political education. In the pliant of the last week's general politics there was much to talk about energy; Incluusus, in the last plan foretold the Program, were connected with five of these eight measures, wasn't it? Not only that, in a way, the President showed us the mirror. The mirror, in front of the current situation... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... not only that, so to speak, the President showed us the mirror. Looking-glass, in some way recommending me to recite a cup of mine to the present state, doesn't it? It seems to me that this metaphor of the mirror will have time before it's too late. But today, I think, in accordance with the metaphor of the mirror, we must draw out a gigantic mirror, because I am bound to admit that all public powers and governments must be admitted to be −, in your case or in the case of yours, that the people are either failing or failing in the field of power. I'm going to begin with the big ones, the big ones, the big ones, the big ones, the big ones. of the greatest. Hau diot ze Europar Batasunaren energy poliikak guztiak, guztiak, eta hortik behera administration guztiak, zuzentarau guztietan horrela agertzen da henera, primzipio argi eta labur batan laburbiltzen da: security of sustainable supply and at affordable prices. That is the guiding principle of European energy policy. I am not going to talk today or about security of supply – which, as we all know, is compromised – I am not going to talk about whether the supply of sustainable – because we all know that we have problems in this sense – baia bai pixka bat prezioen inguruan hitz egitera catazela, ezta? They're taking measures around the prices. They're taking them everywhere. Europe has taken measures, but it has not reached the plate of the electric market, it does not want to touch the price-set system, and the solutions or solutions that are coming are not sufficient. The Government of the State has also taken the measures one after the other. And I don't deny that there is no will to solve problems, but I think that there is a want that has come from the hands of these measures, and there is nothing but to look at the rates of energy. You have to admit that when you're talking about the prices, there's very few people who can do the rate of energy. But this does not mean from a point of view of social protection, that is, from the point of view of an offer of well-being, that can produce much. It would be the question: Have all the nices and measures which have hitherto been applied have been obtained from the energy world, and from the rising of the prices of the victims? I'd say no, I'd say not. We propose to give you a quantum leap in front of this bloodfall. And our thesis is that some of the most urgent comforts are a right and that we have to guarantee that right. It's not the first time, it's not the first time we've done it, we brought it in February 2021. By this time we put the legal proposition, which we had worked for many months and months, with all the articulates on the table. This time, I'll talk about this later, so we ask you to bring me a law, write a law to guarantee the right to my maximum welfare. The reason for presenting this proposal of the law was explained at its very moment, and my friend Kotha's had a long time to explain details and examples and circumstances, and I shall not repeat them all. But our thesis was rather simple: we must make a diagnosis here. I'd say the diagnosis is on the table, and from 2008 we're doing very bad data here, and we're standing in front of a higher problem about that fabulous aspect of poverty called "power poverty." We recalled data from 2019, and here we brought the social statistics, the Fiess report, etc. And you could see that thousands, tens of thousands of families, or hundreds of thousands of people, were in trouble to pay or obtain a few small supply of energy. After that, there's another report from Fossa, the last one with 2020. And that's where it's said that if there's 260 people in the Euscal Autonomy Esquimia Erronia there can be − or there's some people in that area or in that area of neurogenic poverty, isn't there? We even then said, and it's said again that there are also some visible profiles: that is to say, only the older widows live, the monoparent families with a woman's head; that is, there are also specific profiles behind this. That is to say, that behind the phenomenon known as the mythical poverty there is the face of a woman in the highest degree or in the greatest number. And we used to say that we could see the lights of the zoo for the worse. And it was curious because there was a distraction here. What macronomical data, including the Euskal Autonomical data, we talked about it at a time when it was better, that is, we were talking about the early facts of the year 2019 and 2020, but it was obvious that it was still rising. That is to say, it was cold, the most crude indication of the social crack. Before this Diagnosis, we have defended a thesis, and defend a thesis with these proposals. That is to say, we all need the subjective right to have a minimum amount of energy in order to secure our well-being; that is to say, my dearest comfort is the foundation of a worthy life, or one of the principal foundations. Here, my favorite market, which is devoted to private profits... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... that it is the foundation, or one of the principal foundations. Here, the legendary market-place, which is devoted to private profits, does not guarantee my own welfare. There's a lot of resistance to make commercial changes. I have already alluded to the system of determining the prices in Europe. Here we know that there are great profits, and I shall never repeat the data of the gains of the companies, for they are known. Our thesis says that if the public powers are to be guaranteed, as well as the intervention of the central market, even when this is not enough for the − to be able to live with dignity in the social protection system in all the people. And in order to accomplish this, it is not enough that, as has hitherto been done, we should have done with the policy of the poor −, but that the earthly well-being is first a subjective right, and the system of proper preparation. All this was reflected on an example. And I think it's very important to understand this. We've had college scholarships, many of us haven't entered that type of −pobre category. Because in a matter of education we understand that it is universal and free-that is, because we believe that education is a subjective right, because we abandon it. And that they are the mediators of the realization, is that it not? That's the quantum leap we're asking for in the energy area. A law that acts as a key to recognizing and guaranteeing this right, the right to energy well-being. And of course, within this package - because in energy we have to take into account that climate change, is the energy transition, etc. - because within that guarantee of energy well-being, we also need to be aware of the promotion of energy efficiency, rehabilitation aid, self-consumption drive, etc., etc., etc. So that the guarantee of basic supplies does not in any case imply an increase in CO2 emissions. While this was done, of course, it's in our proposition today that we bring this along with us, that we propose to increase the games that now exist, to increase the games that exist for these policies, and even to the budgets, even in the latest budgets, we push and fight. We're also asking and asking for access to aid, because the lack of energy available is not connected only by the population sectors that enter the poor category. This was all, in short, the essential point of providing and not getting what the citizens deserved, and not getting out of time. And it doesn't seem to leave today either. The arguments for rejection - basically the same as before - were that the objectives were shared in generic terms. That is, that there would be no people having a bad time because they could not have a minimum of access to energy at a reasonable and such price. Then there were legal technical problems, competitive invasions, etc. Things that in the case of that law could be understood, could be better written, etc. Now the Government is being asked to do so, I obviously understand that the issue of the jurisdictional invasion technique would be resolved. But there was another argument which - I want to focus here on the last few minutes - was that there was a sufficient amount of resources allocated. Mr Andueza then defended the position of the PSE and told us about the policies already under way. Eta Urrutia jaunak defendatu zuen EAJren ezezkoa, éta berak esaten zuen hemen porezia energetikoa deitzen hori gainitzeko enplegua Bultzatu behar zela orokorrean porezia gainditzeko, ezta? Hori zen tesia. I think that thesis doesn't work or isn't working, because today's the last decade's jobs data... I mean, we've got the least workout, but the statistics that are connected with the neurotic poverty are booming. So that, therefore, the more employments have not brought in the excessive poverty, or the poverty connected with energy. And we come back to the subject. As you know on the one hand, −, the Basque Country gathering doesn't give up the rights of the people's people's rights in public exercise, and because we really believe that a minimum of urgent supplies is a fundamental right. And we also believe that time has given us reason again, because if we look at the facts of today, things have gone far more wrong. They've been wrong and there's nothing to look at but statistics, right? So far, there were two main indicators for categorizing energy poverty. One was the lack of energy to maintain minimum cold-heat conditions in homes for a dignified life, let's say. And the other - perhaps the most important - was that personal and family energy expenditure will not exceed 10% of income, not exceed 10% of current income or prices. Approximately 1,100 euros per person per year are being spent in this country on energy supplies. That means that a family – I don't know if type, but good – a family type of four people as it will spend 4,000-4,500 euros. If we apply that 10% we are talking about all those family incomes that do not exceed 45,000 euros - and that is a few hundred thousand - are within that category, should be within that category of energy poverty. With which we have a problem that affects hundreds of thousands of people, not to mention those people, not since they spend...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u2	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u3	Yeah. I'm done. 10 % or a little less or a little more, all those that are not entering that category, because they simply do not use the heating and actually move to the category of those who are cold. I just want to thank you for reaching the middle-way with Podemos. I insist. It doesn't seem like it's coming out today if we think it's necessary. [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... Getting halfway with Podemus. I insist. It does not seem to come to this day to demand this proposal of the law which we believe to be necessary. I'll listen to reason. I think it's a shame. I think that's the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, your word is yours. Ow! I'm sorry. Basque Popular. The cellar, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Ma'am, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u5	Good morning. Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. For today, again, we are talking about this issue, about energy poverty and the issue of energy well-being, which citizens are going to suffer a great deal this winter, in particular we are talking about Basque citizens. I want to say that, by making an assessment, I believe that years of wrong policies, not in substance, but by giving priority to the time factor in the equation proposed to end CO2 emissions to the atmosphere, to fight climate change, but in a wrong way: giving too much importance to the time factor, and we share that everyone here is the climate emergency in which we are immersed. However, there are many ways to combat climate change. And when we have mortgaged the energy well-being of our citizens to gas from Algeria or Russia or that produced by fracking in the United States, it turns out that the global fight against climate change has turned out to be a mere exercise of hypocrisy. And why? Because if what really mattered to us were greenhouse gases, determining that gas was our baseline energy for energy transition made the zero emission scenario pure theater, since combined cycle power plants emit huge amounts of CO2 into the atmosphere. Once the energy mix is addicted, and we put it on a tray and put Putin on a tray, we put pressure on him in his imperialist struggle with the gas cut, which we can no longer do anything about, the gas shutdown in northern Europe and the disastrous management of Mr Sánchez's foreign policies have led us to this situation. And I want to say that Mr Sánchez's government is supported by the majority of this House, especially the Nationalist Party and Bildu. Nothing to say with parties that co-govern or are members of the Government. And now we have to solve the problem to the citizens, which is what we are for. Good. What is a house without energy supply? Of course, it will be a continent, but it will not be a home, at least worthy, it will not be. That's where I recognize it. The Basque Housing Act 2015 recognizes the subjective right to housing. And you have to gather... That house has to meet some requirements. And I believe, we believe from the People's Party-Citizens, that the first and fundamental thing is that this house is worthy and, to be worthy, it has to have basic supplies: electricity, gas and water. Okay? Today no one questions the need to have energy to charge our technological devices, which improve our life in a qualitative way. Children have tablets or computers to study. It would be unthinkable to think that they do not have at their energy homes to load their devices. Nor can we allow Basque families to go cold during the winter that awaits us. Within the immediate development, I want to say to you, and everyone knows, that at the moment the law on the status of the consumer and the user is being processed. I propose that we come to an agreement that basic consumption in residential housing... in order to agree that, during the months of September to June, during the school year, suppliers may not cut either light, gas or water, even if there are defaults. And let them inform the municipalities to which this housing belongs so that from the basic social services contact the families who do not pay, if necessary, to put in place emergency aid or to advise them on how to lower consumption and be able to assume it or to postpone the payment of such invoices, which at the moment will be prohibitive for Basque families. And what we proposed in our amendment was that a specific citizen's office should be set up to resolve all kinds of consultations related to energy issues: doubts in bills, energy efficiency measures, doubts in self-consumption, even advice and inspection at home to identify obvious deficiencies and implement energy-efficient and corrective measures. And all of this is called a citizen's office, but you can do this service free of charge with your own means. Why? Because we can't ask a citizen who has trouble paying his bill for light, who doesn't know where to cut, to still pay a report that can cost him 200 or 300 euros to see how he has to do to improve the efficiency of his home. And then everything we've been talking about in August, in September, about the Energy Contingency Plan to help families implement or complete or improve their homes in terms of energy efficiency would be put in place. But also, for this reason, what we requested in our amendment was to double, if necessary, the provision of emergency aid in view of the possibility of a black winter in Basque homes. In any case, it is your responsibility, gentlemen of the Government, that no family ceases to heat up or suffers from energy poverty this winter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, now the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, I am going to say an obvious fact, which in addition to all the parliamentary groups we have raised at the first point, be it our amendments or the original proposal, and that energy is a common, essential and indispensable good... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... be it our amendments or the original proposal, and it is that energy is a common good, essential and indispensable, and therefore guarantees decent lives. Of course, a home without energy, as the spokesman for the People's Party said, is nothing. And, in this sense, once we recognize all the forces represented here that energy is a common good, indispensable and essential, obviously it is necessary in turn to assume that from the public administrations it is necessary to guarantee their access. It has already been said by Mr Otero that from the supra-state institutions themselves, i.e. from the European Union itself, this consideration has been made for many years now. And ensuring their access can address different aspects. But when we talk about guaranteeing their access, we are saying nothing more and nothing less, although in some way with a euphemism, that what is necessary is to intervene the market to guarantee their access. I already know that the term intervening in the market for certain parliamentary groups can turn out to be almost like invoking demons, but it is the reality, that is what is done. There are different ways of intervening in the market, and also to a different degree, but in short, almost all the measures that are applied, whether at European, state or even autonomous level, have to do with intervening in the market, either by raising the price, forcing the private sector to guarantee minimum access to consumers, or by developing services that guarantee a minimum level of coverage for citizens, everything involves public intervention. Also, of course, it would be, and this to a greater extent, the intervention in the market itself by the public administration through its own agent in the market itself; that is, through a public enterprise, we know this in different areas of the economy, and in energy it would not be different. But, as I said, in short, when we talk about guaranteeing access, we talk about intervening in the market to a different degree and in different ways. And this is where the distinctions between parliamentary groups begin to emerge, which is in detail, which is to what extent and how we intervene in the market. EH Bildu and Elkarrekin What they propose in this transactional initiative is that if the public has to intervene in this case the electricity market, because to guarantee social welfare, the best instrument to achieve it is through a rule, through a law, that that would be the most suitable formula to be able to guarantee this access to energy well-being by intervening in the market, and that for this, a law that recognizes the subjective right to access to energy would be the ideal, the ideal framework. In addition, it is also addressed in that proposal for the development of an energy welfare bill, which has to be raised in an integral, comprehensive manner. In other words, it cannot simply be seen as the achievement of different social benefits to those who cannot access the free market with the prices that are currently on the free market, but must be comprehensive. And, in this sense, it is incorporated in the proposed initiative that this proposal for a law or in this draft law should be incorporated, for well, energy efficiency in housing and other issues that would allow the reduction of energy consumption, and therefore that does not imply access to or guarantee energy well-being, that this does not imply the progressive increase in energy consumption. Good. In this, as far as the integral nature is concerned, we do not agree with the groups that support the Government, because in short, they do not understand the need for a rule that guarantees energy well-being. Nor do we consider that we agree on the full use of the Basque Government's self-government to develop energy transition policies on a number of issues: firstly, it has the capacity to regulate through this law the guarantee of access to energy well-being, and it does not want to do so. Secondly, it does not want to take advantage of its own fiscal instruments to be able to redistribute, in this case, the accumulation of wealth that is being deposited in the energy oligopoly, in such a way that these resources are destined for energy well-being. Well, in fact, that was in the end something that the Basque Government did, thanks precisely to the special tax on electricity and banking introduced by the Spanish Government, because in the approach made by the Lehendakari the other day, one of the sources of funding was precisely this. What would have been interesting would have been that by taking advantage of the self-government of the deputies, in this case, a special tribute to the electricians would have been raised in the case of Euskadi, which would have made it possible to effectively finance this access to energy welfare by the citizens. In other words, we see that there is also no clear interest on the part of the Basque Government and the groups that support the Government in making full use of self-government. But then there is one element that also distinguishes us, and that is that, beyond what they do not want, let's say, to address access to energy welfare and market intervention through a law, and they also do not want to use certain instruments of self-government, in the approaches of the amendments of the groups that support the Government, and in this case also of the People's Party, basically what is proposed is that the only solution for access to energy welfare is social benefits, that is, to guarantee social benefits, social emergency aid, or funding to the Red Cross by the Basque Government or, if so, because the social bonus that is developed at state level, but then the funding comes from the Basque Government. That this is basically the only way that they address, access to energy well-being by citizens. We don't agree with this. It is true that there is a distinction between the People's Party and the groups that support the Government, and it is the People's Party's position that there must be greater amounts and greater flexibility in access. It is true that this is somewhat contradictory and cynical, because it is paid with taxes. And taking into account the People's Party campaign at state level with tax cuts, because I don't know how they're going to do it so they can pay more social benefits in access to social welfare. In any case, we do agree – I believe that almost all opposition groups – that the amounts should be extended, and that access to them should also be made more bureaucratic. The groups that support the Government will say that they have already expanded, it is true, and that in addition to the limits of the benefits to which a citizen can access, they have also expanded there by July... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... the limits of the benefits to which a citizen can access have also been extended there by July. We and we, considering the situation we are experiencing, believe that, well, I don't know if the figure would be double, but, of course, that we would have to expand it even further. And in this regard, it seems that we will not be able to reach an agreement either. And we believe that it should be extended even further, even beyond what was raised in July; basically, because inflation does not fall, because inequality in the last decade has increased. Yesterday, in fact, the vice-lehendakari, in a few days of social inclusion addressed the increase of inequality in the last decade in Euskadi. We therefore believe that, assuming this premise, the amounts should be extended. Moreover, there is a certain assumption of this need if, in July, in view of the winter that is coming, it was considered that an order to modify, in this case, the access to social emergency aid should be drawn up. Therefore, we believe that even more effort should be made. And from there came the initiative, in this case, negotiated for it. But, in any case, and in short, and returning to the beginning of my intervention, I believe that where there are more discrepancies on the part, let us say, of the groups that have negotiated this proposal and those that have not done so - and therefore have not managed to reach an agreement - it derives from the level of public intervention that must be made in the market for access to social welfare. Basically, that is the issue that raises or raises the differences without the possibility of reaching an agreement. While some political forces consider that through the regulatory framework, developing a law and, in turn, generating a public system and, on the other hand, using the own taxation of self-government we would be able to guarantee more social welfare than is guaranteed today, others consider that with what is being done it is enough. That is, in short, what we are dealing with here right now. And therefore, unfortunately, we will not be able to reach an agreement, apparently because of the transactions that have been recorded, but we hope, of course, that because of the importance of the issue and because, surely, as has already been said, this we are going to be discussing and discussing it long and extended in the coming months, there are major agreements on other occasions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u8	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u9	Thank you very much, President. Today, on this first item on the agenda, we are largely repeating the debate that was already held at the plenary session of 25 February 2021 in this Basque Parliament. In that plenary, as we have already said, the proposing group presented a proposal for a law on guaranteeing the right to energy well-being, which was rejected with the votes against the Basque nationalist and socialist group and the abstention of the People-Citizens group, but which also had an unfavourable report from the Basque Government for consideration. And in that report, the reasons for their rejection were very clear to the Basque Government, because, despite the goodness of the mere enunciation of the objective - of course, that we can all share as it is the energy well-being of the Basque population - they believed that the Basque Government must, in fact, seek to carry out the mandate deriving from Article 9.2 of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy; but with a coherent approach to a complex context in which the electricity and gas sectors are involved within the European framework; and because the articulated text that was presented intended to affect and directly affect the configuration of the content of the legal regime of subjects involved in these sectors such as electricity and gas, affecting their obligations and rights, and also concerned the guarantee of the supply that they have predetermined and regulated in the current legal system. Of course, we can all agree and we agree that in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country citizens have access to the basic energy resources that provide them with a standard of living of quality. And I think we share that with everyone here, and the goal of political work is to guarantee that well-being to the citizenry. As our spokesman for the Socialist parliamentary group, Eneko Andueza, indicated in the plenary on 25 February 2021, it is clear that both energy poverty and the drive for new tools, processes and agents to democratise and reduce the cost of energy, as well as enhancing the use of clean energy, are important elements in the current political, social and economic debate. Today we are again discussing this same issue, but calling on the Basque Government to draw up the energy welfare bill. The question is: do we have tools to address energy poverty? Have measures been taken to alleviate the situation faced by citizens in the face of the situation we suffered as a result of the war in Ukraine? The answer is yes. Of course, everything can be improved and increased, but we have important tools to do so. In the field of social policies, we must not forget that we have an income guarantee system in our pioneering autonomous community and that it has proved effective in alleviating the effects of the poverty of the economic crisis suffered and aggravated both by the incidence of COVID-19 as a result of the war in Ukraine. And we are now immersed in the adoption of the amendment of that income guarantee law, where improvement measures will be introduced on the current regulations... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... At the moment in the adoption of the amendment to the Income Guarantee Act, where improvement measures will be introduced on the existing legislation, both in the simplification of its processing and in the improvement of its management and increase in amounts. And in our view, it would be desirable for the citizens of our Autonomous Community to count on all these... with all these improvements since the beginning of next year, since the beginning of 2023, because it would greatly improve the situation of many families. Moreover, we cannot forget that our income guarantee system will include, after the reform, both minimum living income and income guarantee income and ESAs, as well as temporary supplementary housing benefits. All these are complete in the income guarantee system, and not just the ESAs to which this initiative relates exclusively. But I would also like to point out that the initiative we are debating today calls for the extension of the payment appropriations for social emergency aid, and for the economic amounts that can be granted to them to be increased. And of course, the Lehendakari himself in his speech at the general policy plenary last week, has already announced that there will be a 10% increase in the amounts of ESAs. And of course, I have to remember that there is also a municipal autonomy to apply within the limits that the Government establishes, to what priority is given within the ESAs - either to rent, to mortgage, to energy costs, for example -. And I also have to remember that there are municipalities that have not given money for energy costs. Why, then, is this initiative called for by the Basque Government to decide to implement it? If this competition does not fall within its competence, it falls to the municipalities. Therefore, the amount increase has already been agreed on the one hand. And their fate, as I said, will be indicated by the municipalities for another. Further action has also been taken. On the other hand, as another measure, it must be borne in mind that the maximum ceiling that can be granted, given in terms of energy, has been increased from 600 to 1,500. And we also have to bear in mind that EUR 45 million has been allocated in this year for social emergency aid. Within these 45, 27 million enter the regular budget; 4.5 million for compensation in municipalities; 10 million within the covid funds; and 3 and a half million within the fund created to deal with the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine. Therefore, within this year, the amount and increase in the amount to be applied is very considerable in respect of other financial years. And we do not see any need for the initiative presented. And of course, the requirements that are required in order to be able to access the ESAs, we believe that they do not correspond to a future law on energy welfare, but that it is and must be addressed within the draft law on the reform of the income guarantee system in which we are now immersed, and that the deadline for the submission of amendments by the various political groups this week, 27 September, has ended. On the other hand, in its transactional, both the EH Bildu group and the Elkarrekin group We can ask for the elaboration of a law that develops an energy welfare service in order to guarantee the supply of energy to citizens. But again the answer is, do we have tools for it?. And again the answer is yes, we have the Plan for Recovery, Transformation and Resilience in Spain; we have in Euskadi the Plan of Next Euskadi itself; we have funds at European level for energy efficiency and rehabilitation at state level, with the social bonus, with the limitations to the cut-off of supply, obligations of trading companies; and at autonomic level, we also have measures of energy efficiency, comprehensive rehabilitation of housing and buildings, social benefits and AES for energy poverty. The Basque Government is already taking action. It is implementing aid to protect citizens from the risk of energy poverty. And we doubt whether autonomous rules can intervene in this area, bearing in mind that the powers are specific to the State. And of course, no one can question the great effort that we socialists have been making to try to alleviate the harsh situation that the most vulnerable families are experiencing as a result of the price... of energy price escalation. And steps have been taken since the summer of 2021 every month, in order to make that effort, a strong effort on the part of the State. And in addition, the government of Pedro Sánchez, to whom they are looking to the government of Pedro Sánchez all the European countries when looking for references in terms of energy policies. Today, we are being able to establish strong leadership at European level, putting Spain as the first benchmark in terms of social protection policies and the fight against climate change. And of course, we are making an effort to stop that absolute paralysis as a result of the blockade that the renewables suffered during the last period of the People's Party. While they imposed a sun tax that favored large energy companies, we have imposed a tax on these companies to favor families. And in the face of the austerity model of the People's Party, we have put forward a social-democratic model to deal with the crisis. A redistributive model, where the one that earns the most shares. And that is why we are going to support our amendment as a whole, to which I will refer in my second speech, because we do not have more time right now. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u10	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u11	Chief of Parliament, Mrs. Chief, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Otero, you started your interference by saying that it's a energy discussion and you mentioned Platinón and that what you don't know about energy shouldn't come. Then it seems to me that we are here discussing the well-being of the −eta initiative-yes, my dear comfort in this case, but well-being. And what is plain is, that the word of the last time is uncertain. It is with this uncertainty that we go up and down with it. And in front of that, I'd ask for one thing, if I could. And it is not to this that we bring us optimism, pessimism, and still less alarmism, but confidence. Let's trust the villages. In our institutions of trust, even in the welfare system we've created. And for that purpose I shall use a sentence which the President used last Thursday, if I may allow it: "La confianza en nuestras institinicenes es gutantía más certana para responder a las necesidas y superar locos," he said. I, in addition to this confidence in our institutions and in the welfare system that we have created over time, would also ask us to act with lucidity; with clarity to expose and understand something. And for that, I'm going to give you some data, because here the data usually dance a lot, but, incidentally yesterday, I stopped reading some data from the last EDPS related to this topic. He spoke of aspects such as supply cuts in proportion to the population affected. We started in 2000 with 1.1%; it went up in 2008 to 1.6; in 2012, to 2.4; it went down in 2014 to 1.8; a rebound in 2016 to 2, and it went down to 0.8% in 2020, leading us to a minimum level of supply cuts in 2020. Speaking of the aspect of cold in winter, we started with 5.2% in 2000; 5.5%, 2004; it was down to 4.2 in 2008; it was up to 11% in 2014; it was down to 8.9 in 2016; it was down to 9.3 in 2018; and it was down to 6.9 in 2020. The improvement extends very significantly in 2020 to indicators with poor evolution between 2008 and 2018, indicating an important break in this negative evolution; although higher than in 2008, the figures are close to those of that year. The improvement extends to other poverty indicators associated with energy poverty between 2018 and 2020, especially the problems to maintain an adequate temperature in cold periods, which moves in terms very similar to those already described in the cold in winter. It's data from the last EDPS. It is, therefore, not absolutely right to say, as we say, that since 2008 there has been worse signs about the man who has known poverty as a narcotic. Yeah, we've had seasons that have turned worse, even those who've done better. We are, by any means, conscious, Mr. Otero, of one thing that you have said, and it is: you mentioned the difference between employment, unemployment, etc., and the data of extreme poverty. Yes, we are conscious that we live in a time when differences increase, not only Euskakia, but also all the West. We are also conscious, for instance, since the data of the EPDS comes out every two years, we shall see in 2022 those data that can get worse, and therefore I would not like to show any triumphalism here, but let us put it in the real reality of the data. The remarkable result of all these facts is that crisis and economic cycles, bad economic cycless, have infested, of course; this is obvious. But where isn't their impact? I'd like to know the kind of data, for example, in a country like Germany where we often consider it a refugee. And the consequence I'm trying to get out of that is that we should appreciate the welfare system we have. I would often ask scholars to show us an inquiry, what cost it would not be a system of well-being we have. That's why I'd like to make a reflection about the welfare. During the last February discussion, it seems to me today that we're playing his second share, because I said we shouldn't part with poverty. And I think we shouldn't even divide our well-being. I know classifications can be made. I know that my dearest welfare must be considered as a fundamental necessity, but I will tell you with your words, before I hear Mrs. Irart on Thursday before, − thought so, and correct me if I am wrong. But the President requested a peace of comfort. And I don't know whether the alliance will be possible or not, because politics have so many tempus, who knows... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... a treaty with the President's welfare. And I don't know whether the alliance will be possible or not, because politics have so many tempus, who knows? It's just to see it. Today, probably, the education agreement we have in hand would not have been a match for it two or three years ago. Who knows? But I didn't want you to go away, I wanted you to tell me that any possible welfare treaty would not contribute well. And we understand the system we have, we understand that we can do well with the subject of the transcendental well-being. And his witness, for instance, of what he saw last Thursday. I think that here it is that a government is ready to implement the measures to which it ought to be applied. And from this I shall mention several points which may be touched upon this subject, shall I not mention? On the one hand, the President proposed a treaty of energy, which he laid upon the table a proposition of 400 million, by the program, and by the aldudias. Well, it may be said that it is not necessary for 400 million, but I believe that it is there, and that it is clear that political will is required from this tribe in −. 10% increase for emergency societies, reducing the cost of supplies in the social housing park, in community with centralized facilities, adapting the cost limit for social housing revenue, helping families to collect energy security for power billing policies, special lines for middle-rate energy and self-recollectual credits, energy re-enforcements, and self-reservation programs. These I mention, in order to improve the welfare of the Government, to speak of its will to increase and to exaggerate, and also to show that the photograph is perfectly global, and that it is universal here. And as I said, in the discussion of the temporal poverty, or last discussion, it is not all to be delivered into the hands of social services, for well-being is a wide or wider concept, as well as in the case of the spiritual well-being. Hence, we introduced our correction with the Socialist Group, divided into four or five points. First of all, we were talking about a statement, a statement, a statement, of the religious welfare we were talking about. We even defended ourselves to increase in support of social emergencies. We also mentioned the neuroptic Ephice and gave the information that was important to us, to the Basque Organizations of Power, and to the consumers, especially to the vulnerable consumers. I'll tell you something to finish. Yes, I mentioned the mention you made of employment on the subject of extreme poverty. But I think I also mentioned it, too, when I made it very ill, that, apart from the job, we needed other measures of business, because poverty must be attacked in every way. I agree with the scholarships you've mentioned, and with the neurotic effertitude, and with all the appropriate matters of energy... ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u12	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u13	Yeah, that's the last sentence. And it seems to me, for instance, that even in the area of the treaty of energy proposed by the President, you may have great protagonism, an interesting proposal can be made, in order to improve the welfare and measures of our fellow-citizens in respect of the religious well-being. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u14	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The one who hasn't ruled, Mistto-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Today we are again discussing an initiative related to the energy crisis and its consequences. The Ukraine war has highlighted the shortcomings of the European energy model as a whole. A model that, based on the supply of third parties, is proving ineffective in responding to the current situation. A model based on energy dependence, and when one of the suppliers speculates, increases or even cuts supply, Europe as a whole – and, by extension, its citizens – we suffer the consequences in first person. The proposal describes the situation in which many families live and are going to live, no longer under poverty, but in many cases under energy poverty. But, of course, we disagree and make a very different diagnosis about the causes of this situation. This winter presents itself raw for many Basques who will have many difficulties in being able to warm their homes. This circumstance will be extended to sections of the population that to date have never been seen in the texture of having either to cut their thermal comfort within their homes or to have to restrict other aspects of their daily life. In any case, either of the two options will lead to a decline in quality of life. A panorama that will bring about changes in our consumption habits. Good proof of this is reflected in the latest study of the Deustobarometer, which indicates that 42% of Basques have at some point given up connecting heating during the past winter. The situation for this winter - taking into account this background, when prices were in a phase of greater containment - is not very delicate for many Basque families. Therefore, many Basques are going to relive situations more typical of the 70s of the last century than of the 21st century. Situations that will come... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... Basque families. Therefore, many Basques are going to relive situations more typical of the 70s of the last century than of the 21st century. Situations that will be accompanied by cuts and thermal restrictions in order to be able to meet other than essential expenses. We said this during the general policy plenary, the Basques are doomed to suffer a cold and raw winter thanks to the energy rationing chart that we are going to have to self-impose in the face of an alarming lack of planning by our rulers. These are the consequences. Even though we may have to look for the causes and their perpetrators. The causes from Vox we have well identified and their responsible as well. The causes are simply erratic energy policies and strategies, with no alternatives unique to the current supplier countries. Policies that have put all the eggs in the supply in a few baskets without worrying about self-supply and self-production. In conclusion, lack of planning and lack of own production to reduce dependence on volatile and unstable countries that are our main source of supply. In the case of the Basque Country this situation is even more serious since our energy dependence reaches 90%. Recently Mrs Tapia said in a new exercise of political lucidity: "You can't act like new rich people importing at any cost energy that can be generated at home." Something we share without removing a single coma. Without a doubt, one of the fundamental problems lies in policies based on the green posture. We all agree to empower renewable sources, but it is necessary beyond... to carry out an exercise of realism and pragmatism. And we must also be aware that renewable energy as a source of supply that can meet the entire demand is only a very long-term bet; it is something that is impossible in the short term. The Basque Government's own documents also state that by 2030 renewable sources will only serve 21% of the total energy we need. It is therefore clear that we cannot dispense with energy sources from fossil fuels. At least to the present date. Bildu talks about energy well-being when his facts and models are responsible and cause the energy blackout that we are going to suffer thousands of Basques during this winter. Bildu and its previous brands have been a brake in the Basque Country to take advantage of our own natural resources and, therefore, to reduce our energy dependence. We live, thanks to his model, prisoners of a constriction and a green entanglement that stifles us and that is causing in much of the situation that we suffer. They began with their "Nuklearrik ez" against the opening of the Lemoniz nuclear power plant, foiling through terrorism a project that would have contributed to energy self-sufficiency in the Basque Country. A frustrated project that, in addition to the cost in terms of human lives, has cost all citizens EUR 2.2 billion. They continued with their opposition to the construction of the Boroa thermal power plant, continued with their favorable position to the closure of Garoña and ended with their last and very original slogan that says "Fracking ez". In short, they oppose anything that can serve us as our own energy supply and self-supply formula, consistent with that bucolic and pastoral vision of the Basque Country to which they aspire. But perhaps the most worrying thing is that over the years its energy model has been assumed by most of the political forces that make up the current parliamentary arc. And, therefore, we are doomed to suffer the avatars not only from the current crisis, but from all those coming in the future. It is difficult to understand the energy self-censorship imposed by institutional leaders in Europe, Spain and, of course, in the Basque Country. We have natural resources that you all refuse to explore. We have 184 billion cubic meters of gas in the subsoil of Álava, which could supply us for six decades, and that climate progress refuses to explore. And this leads us to the inconsistency and contradiction of importing, for example, from the United States gas from fracking, transported highly polluting methane. False green progress that condemns us to the cold in winter, to the sleep in summer and to import at gold price resources that we have in our own home. We are all concerned about the situation that many Basque families are going to suffer as a result of rising prices. It is time for policy makers to reflect on whether the model used so far is the right one and whether energy corsets need to be overcome in order to provide efficient responses to real problems. It is necessary to care for those families with scarce resources so that during the next winter they do not see their heating cut off and are forced to pull into their homes. Solutions cannot be adopted from the point of view of politics. The institutions must plan solutions with perspective and offer long-range structural alternatives and not short-term patches that condemn us to a tiritone with a vocation of continuity, at the dawn of Putin's wishes. Let us turn the current crisis into an opportunity. An opportunity to correct mistakes. An opportunity to change the energy model and take advantage of the own resources available to us. An opportunity to put aside the romantic vision of an idyllic but unattainable world at the moment, based solely on the use of green, clean and non-polluting energies. Make an exercise of realism and political pragmatism so that this is the last winter in which we have to pull into our homes or, failing that, pay an unorbited bill for maintaining a minimum of thermal comfort. According to data from the Basque Government itself, which we have been aware of today, severe poverty has doubled in the Basque Country since 2008. Therefore, the improvement that we have just been sold from the PNV is not real. I repeat, severe poverty has doubled. Something we're doing wrong. And I conclude, as I said earlier, by exercising political realism through just one question: How many of us here today have come to this House through public transport or a clean vehicle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u16	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answering round, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, your word is yours. [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u17	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. It has drawn my attention, Mrs Sánchez, that you have said that we are reproducing the debate of 25 February 2021. I remind you that there was no debate that day, there was a proposal to Euskal Herria Bildu and there were four explanations of vote. There was no debate. Debate, in any case, is taking place today. I say that the shade is important, because here often things "puuuuif" are cleared up like this, with an explanation of vote. And then, you try to represent that there's been a debate. He's having a debate today anyway. Another question. You say we share objectives, the goal that citizenship, all people have to have an energy well-being and that it is the public authorities who are responsible for providing that. And you have alluded to all things or many things, many of the measures being taken by the Government of Spain since the summer of 2021, etc. However, you tell me that you conclude that what we are proposing is not necessary. And yet, what I'm telling you is that one thing is to try - and I'm not saying that you're not trying to act on the price of energy - and another that's getting done. And that's where the data is hard. We can throw each one of a statistic, we can give some data a little rawer, a little nicer. But the average monthly electricity bill is a figure with numbers and decimals, it's not interpretative. And now we are at a time -- in August of 22, which is the last average monthly billing data -- which is 110% more expensive than in 2019, the last year of normal prices, let's say. "Si tumos habando de que con las statusísticas que estábamos manedo en losos 2019000 teniamos, Mr. Faraway, unas 200,000 peoples de risi declio, con esos problemas de absticiento mergico." "Si tenemos el precio de la Electricidad, que constiæ por lo lo menos un tercio del gasto mergiceco de los hogues un10 más caro que ese mumento." Yo creo que claro, you'll see. Klaro, the data in 2022 will be a long way ahead. But this is blanco y recolla, huh? If electricity has increased more than 100%, the gas is the same as fuel. Well, think how far statistics are going to go. And ye say: it's not necessary because there are policies running. I say unto you: if politics are running, these policies are not enough, and the number of people who are now in a vulnerable situation is increasing in an exponential manner, and it has not enough protection and the instrument we have now no guarantee of the right to be mygetic welfare in the houses of which we live with dignity. And in the end, that's what's in question here. That's it. The question here is whether or not it is a right to be of use. And you, with your refusals, declare that you are not ready to become a subjective right of personal welfare. That's the point. We don't say that the support for social emergencies will rise, or that they must rise, or how many climbs will be raised. Of course, we agree. We're covering it. We're asking for it. The question here is the other. Let's see if there's such a basic right to capital welfare, there's such a muscle in this law. And I think he's gonna see it with his vote when he's gone. I'll make two reflections out of all this. Far away, sir, you said it's not time for alarmism. I didn't do any alarmism and I don't want to do it. I'm saying there's a 100 percent increase in energy rates that were bad before. And that will have some clear consequences. It's not glormism; that's putting the data on the table, it's making a diagnosis. Before, they were mediocre or rather bad above data. And you said, trust now, they have to hope. Hope is, hope is, not faith. We can't do a policy based on faith. And that's what you're asking for. Things are working nowadays, things are doing, but there's no problem getting better. And the problems are going to explode this winter when we know that − the neighborhood community, who have communal boilers, are already making meetings to see how cold tens of thousands of families are willing to pass. That's not glormism. That's a reality. And one last thought, if you'll excuse me. And you mentioned it, Mr. Faraway. We're talking about the energy pact these days. We're talking a lot. And here on account of the necessity of making an innate transition to the retals, we must discuss creation, the resilient expansion, mobileness, the strategy of leaving fossil resources behind, etc., etc., and so on. All right, all right. But I leave it to all of us to reflect on what energy we will offer to this people, the people, if we do not agree that every citizen has a right to guarantee a minimum amount of energy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u18	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u19	Well, I'm going to repeat something obvious. And it's just that everyone, I think everyone here, is for the work and we would have wanted the energy that was coming out right now, that we were using, that we were using Basques, to be a sustainable energy from renewable energy and cheap energy. Well, we haven't made it, and we're in a catastrophic situation for the Basque families. And at that point, the immediate thing that is immediately necessary for the citizens is that we solve the problem that they are going to have this winter. I don't miss the debate... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... the immediate thing, the immediate thing for the citizens is that we solve for them the problem that they are going to have this winter. I am not eluding the debate that you are opening today about whether energy welfare is a subjective right or not. My concern is what families are going to do on the first bill they get. It's started raining pretty hard today, what they're going to do, they're going to get home soaked, cold, and they're going to think about it when they turn on the heating. So, when Mr Soto said to me, "you are proposing tax cuts," Mr Soto, what we have proposed at all times is a deflation, which means returning what citizens have already paid double. This Government has a remnant of almost $2.4 billion. Do not tell me that emergency aid cannot therefore be increased to speed up the needs and cover the needs of the Basque citizens who are going to have this winter with regard to their needs to pay the energy bill, and to keep warming up their homes. So, you don't have to mix barbecues with merinas, what you have to do is be efficient, efficient for citizens, and right now, the immediate thing is to give them a solution. That is why our amendment, and that is why our proposals to the amendment that we have put to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Starting with Vox's intervention, although I do not want to go too far in this, but the truth is that it is surprising that energy sovereignty is claimed, in addition to by a parliamentary group that has become almost a lobbyist for nuclear energy, and even more so when to be able to develop or have as a source of energy the nuclear would need to import uranium, you will already tell us where, and that as home to energy sovereignty. And then, on the other hand, how we are going to face the winter that is coming, if in order to make nuclear plants, at least we would be talking about ten years. And you also say, by the way, where, where you would place them. Therefore, here the only capacity to be energy sovereign is through renewable energies, and this has been known for decades. It is true that as a transitional energy, to the extent that we had to develop renewable energies, and even the technology that enabled renewable energies, through that learning curve, to be effective, gas was necessary. And from this, that here in Euskadi there has been a transition through the EVE so that the renewable energies, at the same time, as they developed, we would have an energy that was not carbon or any other kind of energy source more harmful than gas. Right now we are at a time when renewable energy, which already reaches levels that can guarantee energy sovereignty in Euskadi, and here, specifically in Euskadi, by orography, even renewable energy could not fully guarantee it, that is the only point we are at, and now what we are talking about is the energy transition, with whom and how we do it. But, well, eventually, one day you will develop a model for nuclear and gas, and you will illustrate how the problem is solved. With regard to the specific issue of transactional and the initiative raised, we were talking about the issue of GIR, and indeed, it is one of the most important instruments we have to guarantee welfare in comprehensive global terms in our country, but it is also true that if right now we are needing to modify GIR has..., basically it is because the data do not deceive. And we have already talked about it, Mrs Sánchez, you and I more than once, of those who are currently at risk of poverty, who are around 150,000 people in Euskadi, a third have no choice of access to GIR, because they do not meet the access requirements, or because they do not know how to access it. And of those who have access to GIR, of that remnant only 60% are out of poverty, sorry, 60% is not out of poverty. There are, of course, two issues that need to be improved in the GIR, and indeed, that is why we are talking and trying to negotiate and agree, and that is: there are difficulties in accessing the GIR for those who need it most, and, on the other hand, for what should be served by the GIR, which is to get out of poverty, the instrument is not entirely effective or effective. Therefore, this could also be spoken of long and stretched out. On the subject of the energy welfare law, Mr Otero has already said, the crux of the matter, and I was trying to exemplify it at the end of my initial intervention. The crux of the matter, and the fundamental reason, I humbly believe, for which we do not reach an agreement, because in the objective we all agree and all, there are certain parliamentary groups represented here who consider that from the public we must guarantee access to energy by law, recognizing the subjective right of every individual to access to energy, as well as to housing and other fundamental aspects of life. And, of course, that, to the extent that it is recognized by law, obliges both administrations and the private sector to comply. It can be said to me that there are a lot of measures both by the Spanish Government, which we obviously do, and many of the Basque Government we share, which help to ensure that energy well-being quotas are actually reached and also in other fundamental respects. But, we believe that one step further, and it is our job, moreover, and being opposition groups even more, to try to push the Government to move towards areas that it does not reach or does not want to reach, and we believe that it would be important to get there. In this sense, it is basically the proposition that we put forward or the meaning of the proposition that we put forward or that we have negotiated, and it is the recognition of subjective law, which we also believe will come at a time when it will be effective, as happens with almost everything over the last few years, right?, that there are certain political forces that raise certain questions, which in the first place is said to be no, because something is already being done that ends up fixing the problem, but does not end up fixing it, and then, years later, whether it is the European Union or even the Government of Spain, it ends up recognizing the need to articulate a specific right or benefit, and then the Basque Government does so. And above all, on many occasions it is accompanied by the PNV, in this case, through its group in the Congress of Deputies, saying that it has been fundamental for it to be so, that it is not normally so. That is therefore the main issue, the recognition of the subjective right to energy well-being. It seems to be clear that on this occasion it is not possible, but let us hope that in a few years' time it will be. Thank you. [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... recognition of the subjective right to energy well-being. It seems to be clear that on this occasion it is not possible, but let us hope that in a few years' time it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u22	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u23	Well, let's see. Mrs. Larrea, it is very typical of PP to throw the stone and hide the hand and play the "pio, pio that I have not been" always. That's very typical of you. He forgets that you put the tax on the sun and you made the blockade on renewable energies. And he comes here and goes up as if nothing had happened in the whole period of the People's Party and says that the support that the Socialist Party is making from the Spanish government is insufficient. Are they insufficient? But if the Spanish Government has not stopped taking continuous action to achieve improvements for the citizens in the field of energy policy. I would remind you: reduction of the excise duty on electricity from 5.1 to 0.5; reduction of electricity prices in consumption and power; reduction of VAT on electricity from 21 to 5 %, by the way, increased by the Government of Mariano Rajoy; mechanism for decoupling the price of gas used to generate electricity; reduction of VAT from 21 to 5 % of natural gas and other biofuels such as pellets and wood, which is going to save consumers EUR 190 million. As I say, a battery of unprecedented consumer protection measures in recent history, with an impact on our economy of EUR 10 million. So don't tell me films that aren't, because, of course, the facts are those and not sayings, as you say. And of course, Mr Otero, in agreement that in the plenary on 25 February we rejected and made the approaches in the positions that emerged from the various parliamentary groups to justify why the proposal of creation was rejected... the proposal of that law that you presented for energy welfare. I am not going to enter what the reasons were because we have already talked about them, but you have not raised anything new today. He says, "We're debating today." But I do not see anything new coming to me today. And, of course, all the measures that are being adapted, are being seen with the results in the data that are being achieved the objectives that are being pursued. Today, the CPI has dropped from 10.5 to 9.2. Why? Basically, for the different measures being taken to achieve this. And you propose that it be done on the side, as a fundamental measure, that this law of energy welfare must be created, but that it does not necessarily have to pass the measures that are taken by the emergence of that law of energy welfare at the autonomous level. I have already commented in my first speech that we doubt, of course, that autonomous rules can intervene in this area, given that they are the competence of the State. That is why we felt that it was much more logical to present the amendment to the totality that we have tabled, where, of course, under the conviction that energy poverty deserves specific attention from the public authorities to try to reverse it, the Basque Government is urged to take as many actions as it can to try to minimize the negative consequences that rising energy prices can cause. And then, on the other hand, it consolidates itself in social emergency aid, with the aim of covering emergency economic situations caused by unexpected events and by a shortage of economic resources. And that the Basque Government is also urged to continue to work on measures for the rehabilitation of homes in terms of energy efficiency, as well as on the establishment of renewables facilities, distributed through the form of individual and shared self-consumption. And also that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to strengthen through the Kontsumobide the information that can be given to citizens about the rights that are held as energy consumers and the mechanisms available to them. And the Basque Parliament also urges the Basque Government, through the Basque Energy Agency, to provide sufficient information to the vulnerable energy consumer on the energy access service, the different rates and possible aid available. I therefore believe that, of course, we are going to support the amendment to the whole tabled by the Basque nationalist group and the Socialist group; and I have given the reasons, of course, for not supporting the compromise amendment that has been signed today between the EH Bildu group and the Elkarrekin Podemos group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u24	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be short. Mr Soto, you have spoken, you mentioned the subject of the agreements in your first speech saying that today they have not been possible but that it shows your conviction that there will be them. I agree, and I too am convinced that there will be agreements in this regard... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...shows his conviction that there will be them. I agree, and I too am convinced that there will be agreements in this regard. And that the need probably leads us all to those agreements. Today's thing, man, it's solid for me to like a description that one of you, a partner, a group partner of ours once at the beginning of this legislature, that said there had been an attempt, but there had been no intention. I'll be generous if I say there's been an attempt. Because intent, of course it was seen from the very first moment that we had it. But I repeat that I trust that there will be agreements, and I believe that there is absolute willingness on our part to do so. I note that this of the need for the PNV in Madrid is a little short. But it gives the impression that in Euskadi things are done when we welcome Europe, the state, etc. No, no. Hey, look... And he's gonna say, "That's self-congratulation." No, that's a reality. In Euskadi at the level of social services, we go and have gone ahead of the state. Issues like the RGI, the whole history you have had since the year 89, as many autonomous communities co-governed even by you would already like it. There are his colleagues who come to Euskadi to learn from RGI, and who show a satisfaction about the system despite all the regrets that this system may also have. In his second speech he said that what differentiates us is that of subjective law, etc. But in the first one he said that what differentiates us is the vision of the need to make an intervention, a public intervention. Look, I would very much like a government of the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu to be able to intervene publicly, because that can be done by the state. And you're there. Do it, do it. But it is as often as it happens on so many issues in this Parliament. Do it. Do it. Likewise, they are even surprised and have the necessary support of the PNV. Nadie niega la facura myrgética y lo que esta sucedido con la facura mergética. We live in this world, and I think here, for example, the measures that were issued here on Thursday, is because we are very conscious of it. And I'm sorry, I'm not talking about you. I believe that in what we're talking about so many uncertaintys and impunity, both in political and mediatic, there may be a certain amount of time when we can get there... a fear may spread, and I think it is not proper to fear it. And I don't think it was your alarm speech. I'm not talking about you. Besides, it seems to me that the argument has been carried on in very reasonable terms, and altruism was not for you, but rather a general one. General. And we're not talking about faith. We're not even talking about it. When trust is required, faith is not demanded directly. And as for the energy treaty, you mentioned Plato at first. It's probably you and not me in that energy pact. I think you can expand those concerns and reflections you've mentioned in the area where this energy pact is going to develop within the limits. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u26	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect and together Podemos-Nozzeral corrections that have been signed by the Animals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in companies, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 26; rivals 46; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u27	So it's not accepted. Next up we vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 7; the contrary is 65; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u28	Not accepted. We're going to vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists, the Eucobertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters are 39; the opponents 33; abstations, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u29	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of the same as the parliamentary Podemos-IU teams, about the establishment of the protected parts of Eukadical system as a field of slusium to promote projects of oil and photovoltalia. Discipline and final resolution. " It's the turn of the proposed team together that Mrs. Podemos represents the left plurality team has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u30	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, last week, in the pliant of general policy, the president handed us the proposal, the hand... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... a week ago, in the pliant of general politics, the President gave us his proposal, his hand, in five different matters, in order to obtain the peace of the people. One of them was about the energy, capable of conducting my neurotic transitions and of resisting climate change, of making settlements in this country. The initiative we're bringing here would like to make an arrangement of this kind. We've made a proposal, we've got a medium...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u32	So far, at least, the sects that support the government have not accepted it. It would still be time to accept it at half-past half-past one, and we would be on the way to produce an initiative in a town. What is it that we propose? On the one hand, the law of the climate and of the neurotic transition poses... Besides, the law, thanks to which the project of the Araban gas was stopped, must be said to be −. This law foresees the possibility of the production of the spheres in our territory. On the other hand, Eukadin's most reactive energy plans will not be accepted until 2024. On principle 2021. It should be accepted in a year, but 24, 25 will not be accepted. For this reason our proposition consists in these two elements. To prevent the photographic and eoligic parks from doing so in various places: in protected spaces of natural patrimony, where agriculture is of high value, and the survival of the necrophagoous birds is exposed. There are three places where you don't allow me to build my favorite projects, always keeping small projects, dealing with projects that go below five megawattts, self-consumption and the projects they can use. Zergatik you two one of the irony age a batan zitekeen zatekeen gauza beat from her? Through this proposal, we believe that it is good because we would be favouring the energy transition on the one hand, protecting protected areas of the natural heritage, protecting biodiversity and vulnerable bird species, and we would also be protecting areas of high agricultural value - which, by the way, are going to be more and more necessary every year in the face of the crisis of water scarcity, fertile soil and food coming upon us. On the other hand, this proposal is good because we would speed up the bureaucratic procedures that we are all prepared to do or express that we want to speed up the installation of renewable energy projects. Why do I say that? Because if a space has already been declared - after its relevant studies by experts - as a protected space or as an area of high agricultural value, it makes no sense to ask for an environmental impact assessment that is going to be unfavourable, obviously, because the reasons for the declaration of these special areas would not be respected. Therefore, that by the way, many of the projects that or some of the projects that have been promoted in Euskadi -Aixendar in particular - and also supported by the Basque Government together with Iberdrola - have wanted to be located in protected natural spaces, passed in Arkamo and Iturrieta, and finally, of course, after the technical environmental impact assessment because it could not be done. Then, with this proposal, bureaucratic procedures would be speeding up because applications for authorisation by promoters would be avoided. Environmental impact studies would be avoided which would prove to be negative. All claims by citizens, environmental associations and political parties would be avoided. Time and resources would be avoided by technicians and officials of the Administration who should assess all allegations, all environmental studies. Of course, all media anger, all discontent with the citizenry, would also be avoided. Everything would be solved in a minute if we created exclusion zones that prohibited such facilities in protected areas. We, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, have always, always, defended the installation of renewable energy projects. Renewable energy plant projects yes, but not anywhere and not in any way. Not anywhere, certainly not in protected natural areas, not in ecological corridors or areas where protected species are endangered and not in areas of high agricultural value. And regarding the forms, projects yes, but not multinational projects that do not have the agreement and participation of the municipalities and their neighbours and their neighbours. And not the imposition of these projects through which we know as Tapia law, declaring them projects of higher public interest. In the process in which we were able to talk mainly with the Basque Nationalist Party, we were told that it was delicate that these exclusion zones could not be established because the PTS, the sectoral territorial renewable energy plans, would have to be approved first. But, well, it is not, and we have the example of the Autonomous Community of Castile and Lion. That, precisely in application of the article of the ecological transition law, article 2.1 of this law mentioned at the beginning, has already adopted a decree law on 23 June to speed up the energy transition and create exclusion zones. Thus, in Castile and León, the great... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... to speed up the energy transition and create exclusion zones. Thus, in Castile and León, large wind and solar installations are prohibited in the Natura Network, or even on land that is less than a kilometer from any urban core, among other places. Castile-Leon has more self-government than Euskadi? I don't think so. I think we need to take advantage of the instruments of self-government that we have, precisely. Create these exclusion zones without waiting for the territorial sectoral plans for renewable energy to be approved. This is a way of realising this spirit of agreement that we have on energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u34	Yes, good morning. Thank you, ma'am, again. Well, as I said, we'll be able to study the various points of energy, and today, Podemos has suggested or has suggested something that has long been trying to discuss or encourage us. And it is, in a certain sense, that at the time when we make an extension of energy and of the most important energy, we should all agree with each other, namely, that some places should be left safe or abandoned for other values? And so on-and so on-so-and so on-so-so-so-so-so-so-and-so-so-so-and-so-so-so-? In his time, at least, ye who shall dispute shall make propositions to protect nature. We then had the thesis, and we defended it, as we said in the law of the Eugrants of the 2019 year, that it was necessary to make a sactorial plan of land in order to accept all this, in order to arrange all its recurrent energy. Klaro, it's a matter of fact, at last, I think it's a matter of some sort to give Poseidon reason, because things are getting very much behind us. Well, we all admit that we need reoctatory transitions to make the most of them, that we need them on different scales, we all agree that we have to plan the country for that, and we have a clear idea of this for a long time, but this is becoming etherning us, isn't it? Eternizing. The latest chronogram, the last chronogram shown by the head of the Tapia department, said that the sectorial plan would be on August 2023, the sectorial planet of the country, the most reorganized energy. I don't know... we're going to have to jam this too... But the recent rumors... They're only gossips for the moment... They're saying that the entire 2023 area is not going to be accepted as a sactorial plan. And I think of a question here, don't I? I don't want to be a sanferminer either, because it's a soft spot, but, of course, in San Fermines it's usually said, "If you've got the cow, you're bored..." I'm not gonna say "fuck you" 'cause it's ugly. But of course, here we have another problem, and it's that you've got the cow, and we're all screwed. And this is a long-distance problem. And I'm going to make, since I have time, a little history, very brief, but in which you understand this very well. In 2002, the wind sector territorial plan was launched, after different avatars - each one looking a little in his mirror, as the lehendakari asked. The case is that we come here for a moment - and I have repeated it several times - in 2009 all the parliamentary groups unanimously call for the re-starting of a wind-sector territorial plan, understanding that the issue had reached a point of conflict that needed to be resolved. All groups; unanimity. 2009. We are already, we have passed the equator of 2022; more than 13 years. In ten years, it was not put in place, it was not worked on that windy sectoral territorial plan, or, if it was worked, it was not worked with the vocation to bring it to completion, to bring it to port. So there wasn't much trouble, because, of course, the wind deployment had stopped. For many reasons: social response, the incentives from the State for this type of energy had ended, the economic crisis of 2008 was dragging away, and by the beginning of the 2010s, there was no momentum there. Okay? Then came the People's Party government, there was no incentive for renewables, and so we were. And he let the time pass, with a clear mandate from this Parliament. Of course, 2018-2019 comes, turns change, there is a new impulse to renewable energies, and in that context, and seeing that nothing had been done with the sectoral territorial wind energy plan, what we asked and agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party is that we were no longer at a time of ordering wind alone: that we had to order photovoltaics as well, because there was a large deployment of photovoltaics in different sizes. And it wasn't just a matter of affection to the mountains: it was also a matter of affection to the territory in general. In the year of Klaro, 2019, the Enforcement Act is approved in February, and it's been two years since you started the Secretall Act. Klaro, it's been two years, three years, three years and a half years, and soon we'll four, and we'll be late; that is, the bulls have caught you. And it's for everybody's loss, because we're all causing trouble. Because then the reassembled energy is developing the population, the townships, the districts, and the projects are coming. We can say with the oiler: "No, there's an old plan, isn't there? The head of the taps often says so. He's not with the photostat. We have a disaster in organisation, the organization of the country... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... The head of the taps often says so. He's not with the photostat. We have a disaster in organising, organization of the country. We could say that we do not have a sectoral territorial plan, but we do have partial territorial plans that could also order the territory. But here we have a problem too: that we have some that are very old, from the early 2000s, and others not, from after. And then, in some, the development or territorial limitations to photovoltaics, wind, etc. are contemplated; in others it is not contemplated. With this, we have a mosaic of deployment possibilities depending on the region we're talking about. So then, considering this, I think that the middle term we've agreed on today is reasonable enough, that is... And besides, the progress of the scientific design of the reorganization is made because there are some maps and there are areas of exposure. You know, that's what I'm talking about. Está laborodo con la hypnotis de regionos de exclusion, los spios naturales protedos para Elika Fotovoltica, etcétera. Then, more or less, there would have to tune up a little maybe the first point. I don't know if we agree to 100%. But more or less we can be online. But even the second point is now the one we're most interested in, isn't it? If this really is being delayed so much, if this really isn't going to be until 2024 and if we really have as we have several dozen large wind and photovoltaic projects in this country that have to be processed already, then let's do it by decree. Let's do it by decree. Let us provisionally put in place measures to try to sort out the territory a little while we have approved the PTS. And I think that would give us a certain guarantee. Man, neither ez nago teens, Gorrotxategi andrea, esanez neurori honekin arazoak gaindituk zirela, is like in a second the problems would be fixed. I assure you that as much as there is decree, however much there is even PTS, all the problems are not going to be fixed, because we know that this is a particularly sensitive issue among the inhabitants and people living in the territory and there are sectors that are probably not going to be in line with the best territorial planning in the world. It doesn't matter. It would be a breakthrough, it would be a breakthrough. If we have more or less clear where we are going, because the delay in territorial planning is giving us so many problems, because it is giving us them, so a decree. I mean, when the Spanish Government has changed certain matters to encourage retracts, such a declaration of environment, as the types of grounds, and so on, the chief physician has at once made a sort of order by reflecting it in some way, by traversing it, by passing it, by a series of trials to make it appear or to facilitate it. We've been in such a hurry. I think at least we're in the same hurry with those preceptions that are supposed to come at the PTS Eoli. I don't know, I'm analysis that far. And I don't think we can delay the steps we're going to take in the planning area, even though we admit that there's gonna be some kind of prosyal place we're supposed to be at PTS. But we have to do something. The Castile and Leone case have been mentioned. I think it's pretty neat. It's pretty neat. And even more, seeing that he's been disorganized by Castile and Leonen. It's been so disorderly. But I think it's an interesting attempt. I strongly recommend you give me a little view. I don't know, maybe you're both aware and we're talking about it now. But I think it's a shame to explore that path.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u35	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u36	Thank you. Well, we once again discussed renewable energy locations at a time of racing for presenting and promoting projects throughout the territory of the autonomous community. The proposal made by Elkarrekin Podemos, which we have amended, is actually common sense. In fact, it is essentially what we have been defending for two decades in relation to the failed PTS, which has already been mentioned above, of wind power and what we also requested in the 2009 debates that left that PTS dry. Most recently, during the debate on the new environmental laws in this legislature, our amendments were in the same direction: to exclude energy installations, including renewable ones, from areas of high ecological value and fundamental to biodiversity. Spaces that we have protected by those values and that would be irremediably altered and impoverished with those facilities, or simply destroyed, as has been seen when assessing the environmental impact of some locations that have been threatened for decades. Of course, there are instruments to prevent such threats. It's about strengthening them. The incompatibility between energy installations and spaces of high ecological value is generally obvious. That is why it is absurd to waste time and resources in developing projects, evaluating them and, after a while, discarding them. And it is incomprehensible the attitude of those who refuse to incorporate into our order figures and norms that are already being promoted in other areas, and that... as has been recalled by the proposing group. They also exist, for example, in other PTSs in our autonomous community. The danger is that, in the absence of a serious and solvent renewable energy PTS, some want to apply the law of the jungle. In a territory like ours, macroprojects have a huge impact, not only landscape, but also on the ground. Often the need for large and erosive accesses for trucks and cranes to the necessary peaks or electrical curtains is ignored... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... the need for large and erosive accesses for trucks and cranes to the peaks or electrical outlets necessary to adapt the energy produced or the vegetation areas lost by the installation of wind turbines, which are not precisely small, is ignored. The argument that is often given to us is that this is not going to happen, that there will be no energy installations, that is, industrial, in protected spaces or of high ecological value, because more than one day yes and on the other we also see companies and promoters and responsible looking precisely for those locations. Therefore, if you are convinced of this, why not make it clear at once independently, of course, that any project in any location must be assessed environmentally, what is the disadvantage of fixing these exclusion zones, why not make a decision that makes the rules of the game clear; that is, make it clear that it is not possible to sacrifice more environmental values under the pretext of renewable energies. That renewable energy, at the expense of natural spaces or biodiversity, has an incalculable and insurmountable cost, which does not combat climate change, but exacerbates the biodiversity crisis. We are not unaware that certain decisions are complex, that there are rulings of the Constitutional Court that require very fine spinning. It is not worth the fat brush or not because it is not, but we also know that a proposal like this, which we have defended, I repeat, for decades, would provide clarity and legal certainty and guarantees in the defence of our natural heritage. No one in this House is unaware that in the area of renewable energy in the Basque Country the time has come for opportunities, which are many who rely on a free bar to achieve the objectives of production from renewable sources. Our responsibility is to put order and provide guarantees while preserving the values that we have all committed ourselves to defending. The proposal we are debating is moving in the right direction. The amendment of the groups supporting the Government is a long change. Neither the parliamentary debates nor the presentations nor the preliminary drafts have any normative effectiveness. Your amendment does not say anything if you do not commit yourself to anything. Of course, it does not mention discussion areas. It does talk about reducing the energy dependence of an outside wrong, it seems, as the only objective to which everything else is subordinated. A goal around which there is much debate, proposals, obvious differences between parties in rhythms and in the conception of the energy mix for the coming years, but which does not justify everything. Therefore, we do not share its approach, it should say its non-approach, because reducing energy dependence, producing energy with lower emissions and preserving natural spaces of high ecological value are aspects of the same challenge. We can't sacrifice each other. What is regrettable is that this Government seems unable to commit itself to it. And, with regard to the compromise amendment we have just seen that Bildu and Podemos have signed, we want to say that we will support it because it seems to us that it is on the right track and takes into account the high ecological value and biodiversity of our land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u38	Madame chairman, President, vice president, chief officers, good morning to all. Mrs Larrea, I will answer you later in the reply, because the truth is that if I don't get the questions piled up. I would like to begin by acknowledging the goodwill of the proposing group's intentions with this initiative, which I also believe is what we all share, or at least a good part of what we are here today in this plenary room, and which I understand is nothing other than the preservation of our natural heritage and its reconciliation with the inescapable transformation of Euskadi. A transformation that the Basque Socialists understand that it must not only be social, not only energy, not only economic, but that we conceive it as an ecological transformation that brings together all aspects: social, economic, environmental, and reconcile them with a sustainable vision of Basque. A vision that we have firmly transferred all the policies that as socialists we are pushing from the Government of Spain, the Basque Government, logically passing through parliaments and municipalities. Having said that, however, I regret to say to you that we cannot support your proposal, firstly, because it contains a very serious contradiction in itself by requesting a declaration of exclusion zone within the framework of a process of processing the Territorial Sectoral Renewable Energy Plan, and moreover, in advance of its approval, which makes it questionable legal application. You are asking that these exclusion zones, I repeat, without any legal certainty for this, can be applied to projects that are still in the process of being processed. There seems to be a clear lack of awareness of the processing procedures which in themselves seek to ensure respect for legality – as it could not otherwise be – but also transparency and the broad participatory process of the institutions, as well as of the whole population. In fact, respecting how we respect, and recognizing, as I say, the will of the initiative, we proposed that they be able to withdraw it and give us time to work better looking for it, trying to find the legal fit of the issue. For whatever reason, or for what you think was appropriate, you have decided to bring the debate here today. Secondly, we will also say no, because we believe it is time for a strategic vision. We don't have time to waste. We must promote ecological transformation projects that will bring together the investment and necessary for their start-up, both public and private investment, with effective implementation times, and within a legal framework of legal guarantee. And to do all this from a consensus, with a vision of society and in the utmost respect for the natural heritage... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and in a legal framework of legal guarantee. And to do all this from a consensus, with a vision of society and greater respect for the natural heritage and sustainability of Euskadi. We look a little bit, because I have to admit that the Socialists are starting to be bored of always debating where to ban the installation of renewable energy projects. The Socialists want to talk about the need to let go of ties, to disengage us as soon as possible from the consumption of fossil energies. Be honest with the citizenry and stop using a debate as deep and as deep as this, only with pure political opportunism. To assume the need for a forced decarbonisation of our economy. To assume that only green and renewable energy can survive in the future. That is why it is time for us to establish in the rules of the game something more than prohibitions. There are really times that give me the impression that what we are trying to do is to make a shopping list, but just writing down what we don't want to buy. This isn't about castles in the air. When we talk about the Basque industry, about the need to maintain their jobs and to expand their labour rights. Today, when we talk about it today, here, in 2022, we talk about ArcelorMittal, Sidenor, Mercedes, Michelin and thousands and thousands of small, medium and large companies, with intensive electricity consumption. And this is a little or no reality compatible with a bet for a decline in our economy. Defending the Basque industry in the morning and demonstrating in favour of economic decline in the afternoon is to want to assume the anatomical limitation that prevents us from blowing and snoring at the same time. Since the Socialists came to the Government of Spain, we have broken down all the walls that had been erected by the Government of the People's Party. Walls that had no other mission than to benefit the great energetics. Since the arrival of the Socialists to the Government of Spain, we have put ourselves to it. With such important stakes as the strategic project for the recovery and economic transformation of renewable energy, green hydrogen and storage. A project that mobilizes 16.3 billion euros, maximizing economic, industrial, labor opportunities, innovation and citizen involvement. A project that will create more than 280,000 jobs. In just over a few seconds we have moved from the total paralysis of Mr Rajoy's government's long Sunday afternoon to being a leading country in terms of the deployment of renewable energies. In 2021 we were the eighth country worldwide in terms of the deployment of renewable energies. The second, if we look at it from a perspective of wind energy. Our effort accounted for 3% of the total world renewable energy deployment. In just one year we grew up in renewable energy by 46%. But not at any price. It's not all worth it. Here too we must remember that it was the Ministry for the ecological transition and demographic challenge under the leadership of socialist minister Teresa Rivera who established the map of environmental zoning for renewable energies, so much like Mr Otero. A tool that tries to put order in the development of these energies, avoiding irreversible damage to the environment. We have also been the socialists who prioritize environmental protection and have returned hundreds of rivers to their natural course, turning Spain into the European country that has been demolished most. And a long distance from the next one. Socialists know what the priorities are and we know that renewable projects have to be able to coexist with natural spaces. And once their useful life is exhausted, they must be reversible. The Socialists also lead the fight for self-consumption, for the democratization of energy, guaranteeing access to energy for the entire population. From the Government of Spain we have defined the road map for its momentum, with the aim of reaching 2030 with 9,000 megawatts of installed power of self-consumption. While the right was imposing a sun tax on us, we have not only eliminated it, but have provided EUR 660 million in self-consumption aid. Special mention should be made of the great effort that has also been made by the Gipuzkoa Foreign Ministry to promote a zero kilometre energy, 100% renewable and reaching all citizens, under the leadership of the socialist deputy and good friend Jose Ignacio Asensio. Here is also the example of the energy community promoted in collaboration between the Diputación and the Socialist Government of Zumarraga, where the bill for the light of families has been reduced by almost 30%. No one is going to give us lessons about the energy model that our economy needs and about the ecological transition that we are facing and that socialists are leading. I'm done. Clearly, it is one thing to preach from the pulpit, but two metres from the ground. And another very different, is to open the doors of the centuries and spread wheat. Everyone will know where they want to be on that issue. But as a final message - and as you know this parliamentarian has an anthropological optimism of unusual dimensions - I would like to end by saying that I think we are still in time. The future is not written, and now more than ever, depends on us, on the decisions we make in the coming months - and I say months, that no longer even years - depends on the kind of society, economy and culture that we want to leave to future generations. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u40	Thank you, ma'am. Chief Chief, President, good morning to all. A year ago, all but you and Vox passed the natural heritage law. Less than a year ago. In the discussion of this law they amended the text, even presented a parallel GNP to prohibit the installation of clean energy structures throughout the entire area of all protected spaces. The amendment was rejected together, as it was contradictory to the spirit of the law, which states that when a space is identified as a protectionable space, an order for it must be made. An order indicating the greater or lesser severity with which the different zones will be protected, and which will therefore determine what can or cannot be done in each of them, because not all protected spaces are homogeneous, neither between themselves nor within them. Because we're talking about active protection, not passive conservation. When you read the PNL that... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...or between themselves or within them. Because we're talking about active protection, not passive conservation. When we read the GNP that we are discussing today, I thought you had turned in your opinion, because the proposal that was put forward in text says "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to establish exclusion zones for the promotion of wind, land and photovoltaic installations in the following natural areas", and they all quoted them all. That is, that each space is ordered and that the exclusion zones are indicated to produce energy. Distorted in his opinion turn, I was upset, I dared to present to you a possible transaction that abounded in the aspect of prioritizing the marking of those all exclusions in the protected spaces rather than pointing out any other aspect of ordination. But, of course, what was my surprise to know that what you interpreted with the text presented was to stand firm in the goal of ensuring that all protected spaces are exempt throughout your surface from hosting any renewable energy installation. And, of course, I rediscovered its operational rigidity again, and I turned the burra back to wheat. And I thought, well, even if it bores me, I'm going to work it like it was the first time, because I'm not here to succumb to my boredom, even if it's sadly more frequent. If I tell you that it seems to me an abnormality to try to discuss a text that reflects a clear and crystalline idea, which differs light years from the idea that the author intended to move. Either we are discussing what is actually written and has no interpretation - that is, that the Government is being asked to establish exclusion zones for wind and photovoltaic installations in protected spaces - or we are discussing what they really wanted to say - that is, to ask the Government to establish the entire area of all protected spaces as exclusion zones. Between what I said and what they meant by what I was left with? To all this, it should be added that your proposal speaks - and I quote again textual - in the following protected natural spaces: Red Natura, natural parks, protected biotopes. Did you really not even know that with the passing of the law now, I say again, less than a year disappeared - to my disgust, by the way - protected biotopes? They don't exist anymore. Read the law, the first additional provision; read the whole law really to come here with concrete proposals in which what they say is what they really want to say. Because they are rigid opinions, as I have already said, but they also do not update their information. And it is that if we approve what you have presented, we would be more or less saying what the law requires, only by requiring the Government to carry out a concrete analysis of the areas in which the green energy installation zones were excluded. But if we approve of what they really meant, we are telling the government and the parliaments that they cannot do it, I don't know what in any case I don't know which exclusion zones. Either we tell them to order or we tell them that it is already ordered; both things at the same time are not possible. And it's that what they really wanted to tell us, what they already moved me that they wanted to tell us, comes back to consider natural spaces protected as untouchable, almost virgin and wild. And that starting point is a mistake. In Euskadi the protected spaces are very anthropoized spaces, filled for centuries with many economic activities, despite what has been preserved with natural values that we consider to be high today, but which in general do not look much like their original state. Although they integrate, I insist, high values of biodiversity, landscape or other from a natural perspective, even from a cultural perspective. An example of what I'm telling you is the great Gorbea Natural Park. Wonderful space with a high fauna and flora biodiversity, with a haydo – which, by the way, in the origin was neither its native flora − precious and with a colorful these spectacular autumn days, but which comes to be crossed by a highway; which, for more inri, is paid. But not one thing or another takes away any natural value contained in Gorbea Natural Park. Another example I have used countless times in this forum is the Arab reservoirs. Embalms that today you would not admit to being built, but spaces that today belong to the Natura 2000 Network and that you do not want to allow to be touched or revoked or to place in them anything other than the nature that emerged only 60 years ago after a gigantic public work of land movement. Man building nature again wedge. The point is never touch, not even when they wanted to make reservoirs or when they are already. Not as a support for an opinionive rigidity. On the other hand, they intend to amend what was passed in the natural heritage law less than a year ago by restricting what the law requires, and that it is nothing else that the administrations internally order each of the designated spaces in each sub-area what can and cannot be done. Let the relevant administrations make those decisions, which logic will say that in virtually all, but in all of those spaces, clean energy installations are not put in place, however clean they are. But allow the law to be enforced and do not attempt to pervert its content because they failed to convince the rest of the groups at the time with their amendments. If energy exclusion zones are to be identified, they will do so after a democratic process of public information. And it is most likely that, if not everything, virtually all will be excluded for that possibility; but let them do so in the procedure provided for in the law, which we approve for that purpose. And don't ask me to copy Castile and Leon's model, because we're not here to copy anything; and if you want us to copy it, we copy it whole. They just asked for the Garoña nuclear power plant to be opened. Do we do that, too, or are we left alone with a part of what each autonomous community decides? No, let's do our thing, what we do here. And already, regardless of that debate but linked, there is the concept of how to move forward in the model of energy generation in this country. Therefore, in order not to get involved in what is said or what is meant by GNP, because it already had a huge headache, there is our amendment calling for dialogue, negotiation between parliamentary groups and between parties to move forward on a model that satisfies a majority. This is not a long change, Mrs Larrea, this is getting into the background and not getting lost on the sides. So far we have only heard again and again where we should not put windmills, which is in almost all, if not in all, the parts that have been proposed for installation. And the time has come when it's time to say... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... over and over again where you don't have to put windmills, which is in almost all, let alone everywhere that there have been installation proposals. The time has come for you to say where it suits you that these infrastructures can be installed, without waiting for the Government to emerge one, and then you go out and say no. And where is it? Because we are facing an increasingly dramatic situation of lack of energy, of increasing external energy dependence. And more and more countries are making decisions about our energy availability; and they are countries that, of course, are not the most desirable for me to rely on either energetically or anything on them. They deploy their permanent appeals to sovereignty of all kinds and add energy, which today is the basis of virtually all other sovereignty. And for that, an effort of courage is required, beyond saying where they cannot be put. That courage is to say where you can put, until you add a quantity of kilowatts that supposes a degree of tranquility, that brings us the feeling of a certain energy self-sufficiency, that calms us in the face of an uncertain future today. And that we believe can be done from the conversation, from the dialogue, from the flexibility of opinion, from the frankness of moving discreetly the problems that each one of us has in order to exchange them and try to reach an agreement that allows us to move forward without incident to achieve an ever greater energy independence. Some will like Norwegian public enterprises more; others, that they become Basque public enterprises even if we have to invent the EVE bis; others beyond, that they participate in a cooperative way between the public and the private. And whatever everyone wants, everything is legitimate, but all that heterogeneous legitimacy cannot be an obstacle to advancing the deployment of clean energies in Euskadi that make us less and less dependent. So, apart from calling for GNP to be written with the closest possible text to the will, be courageous; start moving from pointing out where infrastructure cannot be put to indicating where it can be put, and try that we can all approach an energy model that puts us in a more sovereign situation. Look, Trotsky already said: "In a revolutionary party, the necessary dose of conservatism must be combined with the total absence of routine, the flexibility of orientation and the boldness in action." Put yourself to it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing over to the answers, together, Podemos-Nozzer, the representative of the Anxiec team, the Signora Hatage, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u42	Thank you, ma'am. I'll try to answer everyone who has taken the word. First of all, thanks to Mr. Otero, the EH Team. Also to Mrs. Muriel Larre, because her team will also protect this middle-class. Mr. Otero used to say that in a minute there isn't a problem, of course. I was just talking about the bureaucracy, where the bureaucracy was going to end. Trouble doesn't end. Besides, our starting point is that it is necessary to discuss a great deal with the townships and the community and the associations in order to establish any project. So, no, all problems don't end, but at least the bureaucracy is at least a matter of trouble in certain places and in a minute they'd end up. But for everything else, thank you for the easy way. And I agree with everything I've said. Alonso jauna, has surprised me because, on the one hand, it advocates the law of energy transition – logically, as it should be – and all its philosophy, everything that holds and all its potentials, and, at the same time, loads against one of the possibilities that this law enables. So, I contradict it, honestly, I don't see it in me, I see it in you. And it also tells us that it is of dubious legal application. Well, he's doing Castilla León, I don't see any dubious legal application, honestly. He also said that it was a problem because it would apply to projects under way. It is that, logically, it is for that reason that this caution would serve, let us say, for projects that are not yet established. It has given me the feeling, I tell you, that I did not believe what I was saying. That's the feeling it's given me. I may be wrong. To Mr Tellería, well, through this GNP we do not propose to ban any installation - first point - the less than five megawatts would be, it would be possible, we see them well, it would be for large installations. I, of course, can't answer to what he's bored of. It's just that it's not my job for you not to get bored. I'm so sorry, I get bored many times and I'm not going to carry it behind your backs. And as for the wording, well, the truth is that that is also the whole negotiating process; if there are issues that are not well understood, to go through with them. In fact, I think that's what we've done. And he tells us that there is a contradiction, he said, between saying that we have to order and say not to order. No, it's no contradiction. We are saying, of course, we must order: institutions, order. But as long as we do not order and pass the deadlines and pass the times and introduce projects, very important wind and photovoltaic installations in our territory, as long as there is no such ordination, let us be cautious - precisely as you said - that the law is being complied with, to ensure that the law is complied with, and to avoid all these procedures in places where the law prohibits them from being carried out. He told us today that we have not convinced anyone, that we have not convinced anyone with our amendment. Well, I think we've convinced Euskal Herria Bildu, we've convinced the People's Party, and I would almost say even the Socialist Party of Euskadi. Just like those who don't... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...well, I think we've convinced Euskal Herria Bildu, we've convinced the People's Party, and I would almost say even the Socialist Party of Euskadi. Just like those who don't convince you, it's you. In any case, there is the example of Castile and Lion. Of course we look at the best of any example. The example of Castile and León, moreover, came to illustrate, or came to say that it was not true that there was a problem of normative hierarchy, and that it was not true that there was a legal impossibility, a legal impossibility to do what we intended to do, because already in other autonomous communities it has also been done. And it would be a test that illustrates his possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u44	Yes, thank you again. I have a feeling that I am missing something in this debate; I do not know what it is. There is like a novelty in Mr Alonso's speech in which I don't know what you meant. What has happened to me is: "Well, let's get out of our way, that we have great needs. And it's worth having opportunistic debates here about locations, about... that the needs are very great, huh? That we have giant needs, industry, etc..., and this is not the time." You also said a "not everything is good", but then you referred us to the map that I like - I recognize it - to the map of Teresa Rivera, when I understand that you will understand that we want the planning of the territory to be done from here, among other things because we have full competence. It's not a question of giving lessons, it's not a question of not getting wet, it's not a question of just saying what you can't because, if you turn around to that, you're going to be absurd. "You have to start saying where, not where not." And what do you have to start saying what you're going to preserve, or you're not going to preserve anything? Let's see what we have to preserve. And also, being normally as fine analysts as they are, I am surprised that they have not noticed what the final text of the transaction has remained, because it is spoken of "network of protected spaces of natural heritage, soils of high agricultural value, areas of special interest of the areas (...) of Community interest and areas of protection for their food". We're not making anything up. Tellería, you must know. This is an exact and literal copy of what the Mugarri Plan of Alava says, approved in 2010 by the Basque Nationalist Party as well. Not only, but also; by unanimity, in fact. That is, unanimously, unanimously, PNV in 2010 was talking about establishing exactly the same exclusion zones as we are proposing today. And now it turns out that we are heavy ones who just want to put problems in the deployment of renewables. It's the other way around, it's the other way around. In that "let's try to do things right," we'll make it clear that there are some places you can't touch. But you've cheated on me, Mr. Telleria. Because you tell me: "We have the Law on the Protection of Natural Heritage, in which there are procedures, etc...." Listen, but we already have maps of the exclusion zones of the progress of the Territorial Sectoral Renewable Energy Plan, in which the network of protected natural spaces is de facto established as exclusion zones. But how do you once again tell me about the Altube Highway and Gorbea Park, when you have already remained in previous trials faithfully accredited that that Highway was before that area was declared a natural park? With this, it has not been made a highway in a natural park, but it has been made a natural park where there was a highway. So, yeah, that story's over. But it's not...I insist on the issue of exclusion zones. If we're going to put them through the PTS, they're drawn, if it's a question of profiling them, fine-tuning them a little bit more, and, above all, the problem that's deep down here isn't that: it's that they've caught the bull in territorial planning. And this is going on forever. So what is being asked here, which I do not know, is the first diatribe about the fact that we do not understand the procedures, I do not know what the first point is, because here the first point is a political statement in which the Government is being asked to establish, via PTS, exclusion zones, something perfectly logical and which enters into the procedure. And in the second one, what is asked is that, since that is getting so long, measures are being established while we have the fucker already mounted. Because the fucker's already set it up, because we've got a lot of companies looking for their sites, a little to the wild west, right?: I give you so much bid, here yes, here no, projects 5, 50, 100, 150... We have a mess, you know it. You know it; you know you have a responsibility to get us the bull. And all of a sudden, that is, those duties without bringing them in turn turn into an issue that I don't understand, to an aggressive point of "you, who don't want to put more than problems." It is the opposite: we are talking about putting in place a partial solution to then put in place a definitive solution on precepts that have already been agreed on other occasions, on other plans. And some precepts, or some of them, that are already being worked on and the maps are already drawing. So, unless we're defensive, and we're gonna try to create something out of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u45	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Popular, no need to speak to Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u46	Eskerrik asko. I'll be very brief. Mrs Gorrotxategi, if something is proud of this parliamentarian, it is his sincerity. I've never said what I don't believe. I don't know if it will happen to you; just like you it happens very often. I, of course, never say what I don't believe. And I'd rather not come down here than... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Your sincerity. I've never said what I don't think, I don't know if you'll happen, just like you do very often. I, of course, never say what I don't believe, and I prefer not to come down here and say what I don't believe. So, please, at least in addressing me, that kind of thing... well. As for opportunism, it seems to me that the debate today had a kutsu of opportunism, today, which would have been today, that would have been within 15, 20 days, having prepared and having worked this document better, because anyway I would not have had... You told me, I answer to you. I know it's none of your business, but you're the one who told me to see why I'm talking about opportunism. Well, honestly, that's why I'm talking about it, and possibly, if someone has to start thanking and recognizing the way out of their opportunism is EH Bildu. And I imagine that to a large extent for the work that you may be doing within the coalition to try to open that vision a little bit and understand a little down to the ground of... to the mud of reality, right? Of course, I won't be the one to accuse you of opportunists. Mrs Larrea, once again, I do not know whether we are discussing the same or not, because you have accused us of not wanting to. Listen, I'm going to read you what the draft PTS that is currently working on is already saying. It's not that we don't want or stop wanting, if we already say so. In other words, natural parks, it is prohibited in reserved areas, in active conservation and protection, both wind and photovoltaic parks, it is only permissible under conditions in zones of empowerment, urban progression and infrastructure. Natura 2000 network excluding wind farms in special protection zones for ZEPA birds, and in special conservation zones ZEC. Photovoltaics may only be installed under conditions of mandatory compliance. Ecological corridors with conditions in all cases. The Urdaibai Biosphere Reserve, prohibited in the cases of wind turbines, and in the case of photovoltaics, shall only be authorised if it is self-consumption. That's what we're saying. It's not that all of a sudden we've decided on a free bar so that the company that wants to, no, no. If the debate was not about that, Mrs Larrea, the debate was about other issues, do not accuse us of what we are not. The debate was about what to do in the transition until the PTS was approved, and the legal doubts that could generate some groups or not the proposal made, but don't accuse the Socialist Party or... well, the Basque Nationalist Party that he talks about, which will come later, but of course, don't accuse the Basque Socialist Party of not wanting to protect the natural heritage. That this is already written, that is the document, read it. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u47	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u48	I was coming to argue with Podemos, but you put me in the middle, I don't know. Look, first, there's a PTS, there's already a PTS that allows you to work. There are sectoral PTS, there are PTP, some older, some more modern, but they work and are there and can be applied. And there I am not coming, Mrs Gorrotxategi, to talk about..., I have not spoken at any time of legal impossibility, I am talking about coherence. We passed a law a year ago that you passed, which says that when a protected space is declared, you will have your inner norm to regulate possible and non-possible uses. And in addition, we know that the maximum territorial order in this country is the PORN, above PTS, of PTP, the maximum is the PORN. And I'm saying: let's do the PORNs, let's manage the PORNs, and let's not try to make a PTS, which is what they're trying to do: the PTS based on PNL. And, over there, no. Because I'll be bored by setting the example of the Gorbea Highway, I'll never be bored to say it. It is a reality, that besides, almost all of you see it every day a couple of times. As you won't be bored to ask me this sort of thing. And the fact that the PTS is already moving, in some way, exclusion zones, because it is very good, and it will have to match with the PORNs, but it will have to be ultimately the PORNs who say it, it will have to be them, and not a GNP that asks you not know what. Don't make me PTS based on PNL. The PTS has its public information, its information to the sectors involved. And, look, they're also mixing wind and photovoltaics, they're mixing, they're putting both of them in the same package. I'm going to set an example that probably won't happen, but in an area of carnation birds, and now I'm going to explain to you about carnation birds, surely, a wind farm because it's not very good, because birds would crash into the wind farm, but some solar plates wouldn't particularly bother. In a soil of high agrological value, solar plates would occupy a lot of surface and could not be put beet. But we do have windmills, because 90% would still be a potato, there would be no bigger problem; that is, don't put me both in the same place. And then I got last-minute five megawatts. Why five and not seven, or four and nine? And, based on five, can you fill a natural park of one out of five here, another out of five there and make it 200 all over the park? I don't understand it, I don't understand it very well, because they don't say "and only one in every protected space, only one of these five." No, listen, this can't be, because..., it's what..., it's more. The Basque Government when it met with the Directorate-General for the Environment, DG11, I think it is from Brussels in (?)) back to the PTS they already suggested not to make exclusion zones, they suggested not to make exclusion zones, but in some way to establish a band of relevance to have or not to have, because they understood that it was easier to manage in this way. Talk to DG11 or talk to the Basque Government. And then I was very surprised about the necrophagous birds, really, so much insistence on the necrophagous birds, man, there are other birds that also have their relevance, the storks and that sort of thing, I mean. Because, curiously, for a long time the human being does not allow the presence of animal corpses in the natural environment, does not allow it, and therefore, a paste is spent on collecting the corpses of these animals. And, therefore, what do carrion birds do? They can no longer look for dead animals and take them to their feeders. What are you doing? They go to a dining room, not a dining room, a social dining room, where the administration takes their bodies, which means they lose their natural tendency to... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ...dinners. No eaters, social eaters, where the administration takes them to the corpses. With this, they lose their natural tendency to look for corpses, because they have made them; and they go with a baboon, eat the corpse, and it's over. It won't be long before we see someone walking around the street with a vulture with a leash. I mean, isn't that nature's artificialization? Can't we come in and discuss that too? We are defending a nature from a perspective that is not much analyzed. Let's go around those things more, then see what we put and what we don't. And I'm done. Stop coming to change the PTS based on PNLs and the laws based on PNLs, and come here with proposals from where it would seem to you that the PTS draws, that there you can put windmills, wind farms, solar plates. Come and describe it, and bring a GNP, which I promise you I will be willing to accept, even expand that map. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote together with Podemos EH Collectional corrections that have been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; in favour of 32; contrary to 40; overbendation, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u50	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; in favour of 6; in the contrary 60; in abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u51	Not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters are 39; the opponents 33; abstations, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u52	Integer correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Euscal Popularo-Ciudadanian-like parlamentary groups, the other proposal of repudiating the attack which a member of the Border had received under the name of Gaste. Discipline and final resolution. " Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gordillo, who represents the Basque Group Popularo-Ciudadanos, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. On July 24, an ertzaina, a member of our autonomous police who was out of service - private, his private life - was identified as such on a street in this city, in Vitoria, and was assaulted by the mere fact that he was a member of our autonomous police. According to media reports, he was confirmed, intimidated, identified, intimidated, yelled at, and then assaulted, punched. This episode, ladies and gentlemen, is only the last one so far, only the last one so far, of a whole series of acts of delegitimization, attack, marking, of our police, of its members, by people, of radical groups. That must be said, because we all know what people and groups they are. We all know that they are people from the abertzale left, who project their hatred through this harassment, harassment, and this confrontation with the forces of law and order. Ladies and gentlemen, this has not been an isolated episode, you know. In the same area, these same groups cannot help remembering that they also assaulted, harassed and assaulted a member of the People's Party. Nor can I fail to remember, and I cannot fail to forget, that at the usual festivals that take place in the towns and cities of our land there are also episodes of harassment, of harassment of our police, the forces of law and order. It seems that certain groups consider that there are areas of our cities, areas of our neighborhoods, which are only their own, and hence exclude those who do not think, those who do not think in this case like them. Who are they? Ladies and gentlemen, we all know it, it's the usual. They're the usual. Ladies and gentlemen. This episode suggests three reflections. First of all, our police, and especially the younger ertzainas, have become a focus of attack and attack by these radical groups of the abertzale left. Not only in the public sphere, which is already serious in itself, but also in the private sphere. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no trivialization at all of the attacks suffered by those who protect our freedom and guarantee the free exercise of our rights. As Mr Vice-Lehendakari said in some statements - and we share them and make them our own too - you cannot look elsewhere at these kinds of actions, you cannot look elsewhere, ladies and gentlemen. Third... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... - and we share them and make them our own too - you can't look elsewhere at these kinds of acts, you can't look elsewhere, ladies and gentlemen. Thirdly, since we cannot look elsewhere, we must delegitimize - and I use this word - we must delegitimize these attacks from the root with maximum force. That is why we advocate that the public authorities and the institution that best entrusts the representation of Basque citizens, which is this Parliament, must make a strong pronouncement in which it is condemned - and I say it is condemned. We must use this word, condemn -- condemn these attacks and show our support for Ertzaintza. Why is it important to condemn? There are certain groups – and we've all heard it in interviews, statements, etc. – that sometimes use other words. They may be dragged away by the debate or perhaps by their bad conscience, and then try to replace a strong condemnation with other words. We've all heard rejection, haven't we? We reject this kind of performance, don't we? We do not think that this type of action is right or appropriate. Well, I think it is important in these kinds of statements, in these kinds of resolutions, the use of the word condemnation. With the word rejection there may be doubts that they do not like forms, but we say nothing about the purposes being pursued. The word condemns, not only represents a censorship of what has happened in this case of aggression, but also that it is wrong, that it is wrong, that it is reprehensible that hatred, that denial of legitimacy, that dehumanization that occurs in this case about our security force, in this case about our police, about Ertzaintza. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for a conviction to come out of here today. A clear and compelling condemnation of this Parliament, which joins, which is in addition to those that have already happened. Mr Lehendakari and Mr Vice-Lehendakari at the time condemned these acts. The central Government, through its government delegate in Euskadi, condemned this aggression. The main unions of the Ertzaintza, etc. have also condemned this aggression. The parties have condemned him, all of them? Not everyone, not everyone. We already know which party hasn't condemned him. Today you have a chance here to condemn this aggression. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that a firm conviction, a clear conviction and a non-palliative condemnation of such conduct be issued. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have made a compromise with the two groups supporting the Government, which I personally thank as a group for their willingness to include, or to do so jointly, Mr Prieto and Mr Atutxa in particular. We have included a modification proposed in the second paragraph, but the spirit is indeed maintained and the text of the sentence line is retained above all. And the word condemns - which I insist - it is important that it be made clear and that it should come out of this Parliament today. That is why I encourage all groups, ladies and gentlemen, to support this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the teams that've been running the corrections. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u55	Good afternoon. Today, in the presence of this initiative which has been introduced by the PP-Ciudadnos, we may, in my opinion, stand before a statement of institutional presidence, but, well, we have to discuss it. And in front of the medium that's signed, we'll vote for our consent. After all, in accordance with this action or the reaction, the status of a hablando de una agresion suffered at the moment of the un ciudadno que tien una prostereta, que que la la la la la la la bordering. Y por tan, nuestro rechazo, nuntra repulsa y nuestra conna agresion. Our protection is also due to the law of the police, and to the rights of all of us. But it must also be said that we expressed a very particular correction, and expressed this correction in our condemnation, and went a little farther. But we must say, that only Mr. Gordillo from Popular-Cantanos gave us a medium signed beforehand by signing it or not. Our reference is a constructive reference to coexistence, to the construction of coexistence in a plural form by society, by institutions, by political parties. And what we were presented with this morning was whether you signed this or not. It seems to me to be a style, neither a parliamentary nor a building of coexistence on the part of at least - I shall say - the parliamentarian who has negotiated or presented this initiative. Because I would like to know what you disagree with - I do not know whether the People's-Citizens Party or Mr Gordillo - in urging all the institutions, the political parties and the whole of society to build all the possible tools for a plural and strong coexistence to prevent these situations from occurring, these aggressions from occurring in the future. Because it's very good to reject, it's very good to condemn, it's very good to repulse. But what will have to be put collective measures to build a peaceful coexistence and that the festive places of leisure... Well, life in general, society in general is for everyone and everyone. I think it's been a shame, I think the height has been... His height of sight in this case has been very low. And that an initiative could have been signed by all the political groups if you had had an interest in doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u56	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word. [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Protect the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Every citizen, in this case, despises any attack, any violence, any persecution, or neglect of any kind, which he has suffered for being an edge. We'd like to extend our protection to the young border of the Mutrikun women, and even to this assault on a young Gasté border. I must plainly say that such events have no political protection, and that there is no opinion, no political position against the edge, no violence against the edge of the people, whether they are at work, or whether they are absent from the hours of labour, or whether they justify or justify it. It is said that this proposition, as a consequence of an incendiary given in the name of the Visigoths, is just as follows: Another case occurred earlier in Munich, and I don't know why it's not been recorded in this initiation. Maybe he forgot because Mutrikun handled him well. The injured man received the institutional protection of the municipal council, political protection, personal protection from the mayor, the mayor of EH Collect, felt that support and alliance, and fortunately the community was not injured. The peace was at hand, and, in spite of the prospect of the festivals, the solutions of the matter were successful. And I hope that this work might be assumed as a guarantee of not having it again. This is why we politicians are not only to identify a problem, but also to plan the solutions which are suitable to that problem. So we tried it with the mouth of the council of Mutrikun as the correction of text, EH Collect, EAJ, and independent, protected the text, and had four ideas. The first is, that all space is without distinction, and secure for all the people, and that it is not permitted to exclude any one in those spaces, nor to violate human rights. A second point, will not be admitted to be feared of race, origin, language, genus, sex, and any other kind, of persecution or distinction, or even of any profession or other. The third point is to show the full protection to those who have been excluded by their profession. And a fourth point on the way to live together, to confirm that we seek to build a people composed of people of different thoughts. We thought what was worth Mutun would be worth here, and I don't know why PNV brought another position there when he protected it. And in any case, Mr. Atucha will explain the cause. This is not much to be said, but I think of today's initiative with other interests behind it. Before dealing with a problem and repairing it, other interests have been victorious here today. And I want to make a couple of remarks in front of it too. Mr Gordillo and gentlemen of the PP, the banalization of hate crime is part of an ultra-right strategy. There is no hate crime in incidents, in acts that occur against police officers. That's right. The department has tried with a specific case, the prosecution did not buy them the idea, they did not assume it, and they have had to reschedule - certainly sorghumly, but they have done so. Once and for all, hate crimes protect disadvantaged, vulnerable people. As established by the European Court of Human Rights, the police can hardly be described as an unprotected group or minority with a history of oppression or inequality. European Court of Human Rights. It seems that you want to twist the law to protect the police and, by the way, to unprotect other sectors, other groups that do not care so much. Protect those who are vested with authority and further vulnerable those who are already vulnerable. That's what they want, but not always. Look at you, Mr. Gordillo. Congressman Jon Iñarritu recently asked the government of Madrid for the statistics of attacks against agents of the authority. In the last two years, 2020, 2021, there are more than 21,000 cases of attacks on authority across the state. Only in Madrid, which appears at the head, are 6,328 attacks in 2020 and 2021; that is, more than 3,000 attacks per year. Hey, have you taken any initiative to Madrid City Hall? Have you taken any initiative to the Autonomous Parliament, to Congress? Because, as far as I know, it doesn't count as such. Have you condemned 3,000 cases in Madrid with total roundness? Have you suggested that Madrid society is sick? Have you suggested that behind there is an abertzale black hand, that this responds to a strategy of not knowing who? I don't know who's behind it? That there's a strategy from the past that I don't know who? The cases here against the National Police or the Civil Guard are residual, the fingers of one hand are counted, just as the competences that these bodies also have are residual. And as for the cases that you blame the Ertzaintza, I'd like to know how many there are. Is that two? You talk about cases, you talk about some kind of general cause, you talk about a strategy and you bring us a case. I add the Mutriku you bring us here in Gasteiz. And as a statistic, as a dimension of the problem, as a strategy, I think it's quite loose. I think as a political flag it leaves enough that... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...problem, as a strategy, I think it's pretty loose. I think that as a political flag it leaves enough to be desired and it remains quite evident. Because here, as I say, you have other interests. They bring us the Gasteiz case, but I want to go back to the Mutriku case again because, I say again, I think it was handled well. And, as to the Gastian case, I don't think that this discussion brings any notice, attention, or any reconnaissance to that young man on the edge. I don't know whether he will feel conscious of this discussion that will be here today, and I don't know whether he's interested in our discussion here, and I don't know if he gets out of the way he's interested in it. But I think you're trying to capitalize and mediatize the fact that this edge has lived. You're asking us to condemn a few facts on behalf of that edge. You say the facts that have been recognized in your initiation from the press. I don't know if you know the closed door, I don't know if you're on the top of the investigation, that's what you've had, I don't know if you're familiar with it. But what I know is that three young men have been arrested and stand in front of a trial and will have to face the trial. Subiudice is in the case. And how many times even the bureau has used it for no excuse, no measure, no initiative. They don't plan measure here today. Only a word is planned here. We reject the fact, we reject it, we reject the fist that that fell on the edge, but I don't know that we can do much more. For these young men, I think, I have a right to defend them even before the trial. And maybe they have another version. And they may perhaps be able to account for the circumstances, or for the relieved circumstances. I suppose these three young people have still the presbytery of innocence. And that once this legislature condemns him, what can the judges do? Therefore you condemn him, and, as it seems, one single word may be expressed in the previous position of these facts. We disagree. They're not our terms. Nevertheless, we will abstain from this position which you make. We're not against you, they're your terms, they're not our terms, they're not our words, but we'll forget. According to my experience, it often comes to condemn problems also. And we want to solve the problem. We don't want to chronify them. We politicians are not only here to identify problems, but to make proposals, to make solutions. And I say Muttun − again, in the expression of which both the measures were taken, and there was a solution. That's why I'm gonna keep the expression from Mutrikko that took care of EAJ. And, as I say, PNV will tell us why Mutricun says one thing, another Gaste name, why he keeps a position in a council, why here in Parliament, another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u59	President. Ladies and gentlemen. Martin Luther King said the problem is not the evil of the wicked, but the silence of the good people. And I believe that this initiative has the virtue that Parliament is not silent about what is meant by a violation, an attack on the freedom of citizens. There are several events that have occurred in recent months. Not only is it the ertzaina of Vitoria or Mutriku, it is also, as has already been mentioned here by Mr Gordillo, a militant of the People's Party, also the son of the spokesman of the People's Party here, Mr Iturgaiz. In other words, there are many manifestations of hatred that are taking place. And I distinguish between hate and hate crime, as everyone distinguishes it. Because the crime of hatred must certainly be expressed through the courts, while hatred is the aversion to something that is rejected through violence. And when there is persecution, when there is harassment, when there are insults, when it is provoked to take people out of public spaces who are acting in freedom, when they are attacked there is a manifestation, there is an aversion of hatred towards someone you have a rejection through violent formulations. And, indeed, the first obligation of the public authorities is to guarantee the freedom of citizens and from there come the others. And that is why this Parliament cannot be silent about the things that are happening and Mr Gordillo has done well to bring this initiative here. And in front of it there is no lukewarmness. Because there have been approaches of lukewarmness since conviction. And I will always appreciate the progress and evolutions that everyone can have in the face of the fact of violence in the... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I will appreciate the progress and evolutions that everyone can have in the face of the fact of violence in the manifestation that is, but it is not enough to share events, and it is not enough to appeal to coexistence, because this is not a society in which one does not live, does not live, in which there is no freedom. This is a society already built in coexistence, already built in freedom, already settled in coexistence and freedom. It is not a problem of the majority of citizens, it is not the majority of citizens who have to build a coexistence and a freedom. It's the problem of some heartless, it's the problem of some energetic, it's the problem of some violent, it's the problem of some nostalgic and reminiscences of a past of violence. And in addition, they manifest themselves around a few acronyms, they manifest themselves around a shared political space, and in which Sortu and Bildu still have work to do, they still have work to do. And that's why they make political approaches in this rostrum playing with words, and that's why they make political approaches in this rostrum, which, although they may have some positive progress here from years ago, still play to the doubt and play to the words. If someone has to work and build a coexistence it is the intolerant, it is the violent, it is the one under acronyms that somehow give them a certain pass. And they permanently allude to the rights of the aggressors, the rights of the violent, because that generates a certain confusion and still generates a certain mistrust. And I have mistrust of the words that you speak here, Mr Arzuaga, because I do not see them sincere until the end. I think I see them as formal from a political point of view, but I do not see them as sincere until the end. And that is why he calls on us to build this coexistence; to build this coexistence in which we are 99,99 % of the citizens, because we already live together, because we already exercise our freedom. And, in any case, it is those violent, that minority, and those who have political capacity over them and influence over them who have the most letters to take on the matter, those who have the most steps to take and those who, perhaps, the most forceful should be. Condemning and rejecting are not terms that should be used permanently by democrats, because we already have the endorsement of our entire history, but those who are late and need to gain that confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u60	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. First Vice President, Chief, Congressman, good day. The Basque Parliament shows its strong rejection, and expresses its strongest condemnation of the attack suffered by the ERTZAINA which was pointed out, harassed and assaulted when it was off duty and enjoying its free time on 24 July in Gasteiz. Jasandako jazarpena eta erasoak gaitzesten dugu. Gure elkartasuna agentari, bere familiar eta gure police osatzen duten zerbitzari publiko guztioi. We condemn the harassment and aggression suffered. Our solidarity with the agent, his family and all the public servants who make up the Ertzaintza. This is the first point in the compromise amendment that we agreed on by the PP-Citizens, Socialist Party and Euzko Abertzaleak groups. And that's the fundamental point. No shades. It's the fundamental point. No shades. They are intolerable facts in a modern society, in a democratic society, with which, unfortunately, and only by the will of a few, we have had to live and suffer, but this must be the past. It must be the past because that is what most of us in this country want. Because the Basque Society wants it and requires it that way. Those who practise or encourage such actions are excluded from the opinion of the majority of our society. Cases such as those in Gasteiz, or in Mutriku last summer, should not have room in our society, they cannot be obviated, nor can they be defumed, because if we do not call things by their name, there is little chance of being able to amend them. Coincidence, tolerance and respect. That's what the majority of society does and what we do. We have to be active agents in defense of these values. And we must all be active agents in our society to reject sectarian attitudes or attitudes of hatred. Again, we condemn persecutions and aggressions which we have suffered. Our solidarity with the agency, our family and all the public servants that form our police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u62	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. The leader of the leader, Mistatha-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u63	Thank you, Madam President. One more summer, we have witnessed a summer campaign of harassment and violent intimidation by the ETA environment. Facts that have been repeated every summer for decades, and that constitute an attack on the freedom of all those who, throughout all these years, have faced the radicals. As I said, these facts do not respond to a new situation, but, unfortunately, they are part of the Basque landscape regularly every summer. It is worth remembering, as a sample of the above, the shocking images of the... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...unfortunately, they are part of the Basque landscape regularly every summer. It is worth remembering, as a demonstration of the above, the shocking images of the brutal aggression suffered during the feasts of Bilbao, held in August 93, by the Ertzaina Ander Susaeta. Those creepy images overwhelmed us because of their brutality and anger, but they perfectly reflected the hatred that they resounded, and that years later they continue to resound the adlaters of ETA. This was another chapter of the harassment suffered and suffered by the Ertzaintza, whose greatest manifestation has been the murders of its agents at the hands of ETA members. Unfortunately, the situation has not changed too much, despite the years that have passed. The proposal refers to the punctuality of the aggression suffered by an out-of-service ERTZAINA in Vitoria, which unfortunately has not been the only one. We also want to remember from Vox the agent of the autonomous body who suffered harassment and apartheid from the radicals, preventing their participation in the employers' parties of Mutriku. A whole exercise of intolerance, political intransigence and, ultimately, an attack on the freedoms that continue to be threatened in the Basque Country. A new preventive harassment formula has also been put in place to prevent young people from opting for a square of ertzaina. The protera seek to frighten, and, for a long time, one of the most repeated phrases on the part of radical youths is: "Good friends do not let their friends be ertzainas". In addition, they set up an organized campaign in which they even withdraw the posters that announce the official call of the oppositions, eliminate from the advertising marcasinas the official posters and replace them with alternative ones, with images of the police forces doing anti-disturbing tasks. An entire modus operandi that reflects that freedom in the Basque Country continues to be a fundamental right to conquer. We therefore wish to express our full support for the work carried out by Ertzaintza in the fight against terrorism during all these years, with great external and internal difficulties. But the episodes of attacks suffered by members of the autonomous police must be contextualized in a general atmosphere of harassment and violence towards all those who represent an ideology contrary to the postulates of ETA. Harassment of relatives of politicians, acts of exaltation of terrorists, banners of support for ETA, tributes and popular meals of receptions to those who have committed such serious crimes are part of the scenery of the festive venues in our towns and cities. Korrikas with star participations of consecrated terrorists like Josu Ternera are naturalized by institutional representatives. In the Basque Country, a culture based on the stage cult of terrorism, which repeats itself summer after summer, has been established and internalized as a normalized practice. But perhaps the most worrying is the response offered by the institutions and certain political parties. Some, as will be the case in this House today, will put themselves in a respectable way and will make a sentence, even if I am in a hurry, energetic and without palliatives. This sentence is nothing but a pose and a procedure to save the face and try to convey an image of constancy vis-à-vis intolerants, and of commitments of freedoms. A pose and a procedure, because the institutional representatives are responsible for preventing such situations from occurring in the Basque Country, and therefore in (sen?), their opposites are those responsible for inaction to occur, for their unwillingness to avoid them. We have an Ertzaintza eager to act, which even sends writings to its political leaders, asking permission to act and disassemble the proletarian landscapes, but which do not receive the necessary orders to intervene. The fundamental problem is that the political leaders who lead our institutions show no political will to put an end to these summer festivals of the radicals. They condemn it in the morning, but they let it happen in the evening. They show their stupor in a press conference, but look away at the ongitorris. They demand public convictions to, shortly thereafter, merge publicly into hugs with Otegi. An endless series of hypocrisy and double morality to which the Basque Nationalist Party has us accustomed. A good example of all this was the intervention of the lehendakari in the past full of general policy, where Vox made a good review of the lack of freedom that we suffered from certain collectives in the Basque Country. We even arrived, at the time, to ask the lehendakari about his opinion about whether all political projects in this territory can be developed in freedom, and his response was silence in the stretch. During the two long speeches made by the Lehendakari during the above-mentioned plenary session, he made no mention of harassment, intimidation and, ultimately, ideological violence that took place this summer. A deliberate and intentional omission, which reflects very clearly the lack of sensitivity, empathy and commitment to the victims, but above all the lack of political will to eradicate practices that undermine the exercise of fundamental rights. It is clear that for the Government and the PNV to put an end to acts of violence on our festive premises, in terms of the facts and the continuity in their time, has never been a priority. Media convictions do not serve if they are not accompanied by the necessary actions to eradicate the culture of violence that has been installed in the Basque Country for several decades. One more example of his unwillingness to put an end to this culture is the preliminary draft of the education law, which does not take into account the reality we live in. A law that apparently does not consider it necessary to report the reality of terrorism in the Basque Country for several decades. A law that has no intention of telling who was Miguel Ángel Blanco, or who is Ortega Lara. A law that does not consider necessary to combat the ideological hatred that still permeates our streets. In short, an amnesian law that aims to make a clean table with decades of suffering and cuts in freedoms thanks to the scourge of terrorism. Conviction is essential, but it is not enough. Condemning is the least, if you want to maintain a democratic hygiene position. But a conviction, accompanied by voluntary inaction to pursue the hatred that is kept alive in this territory, reduces it to an exercise of mere political hypocrisy that since Vox we will always denounce. We will vote yes to this compromise amendment, as it cannot be otherwise, but I want to say that the Podemos parliamentary group has been lucky: the initiative has been presented to it. Mr Gordillo has not been so delicate in this case with the Vox parliamentary group, something... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... Podemos parliamentarian has been lucky: he has been presented with the initiative. Mr Gordillo has not been so delicate in this case with the Vox parliamentary group, something that deeply disappoints us, coming in addition to the hand of PP and Citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u64	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over to the answer shift, representing the popular-Cellanos team. Mr. Gordillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. As this type of debate usually happens, almost everyone already knows what position the different groups are going to take, and particularly the group from which a statement and a pronouncements in this regard were expected today. And that, as always, has done the usual exercise of dialectical contortionism. Pretty soon. Mr Martínez Zatón censored that I would no longer strive to integrate him into the agreement. The point is that the amendment you proposed understood that it was on the other hand. Above all because, on the other day, we present, you present, we value, we support, an amendment that talks about aspects of coexistence in general, etc. But this is a very concrete fact and it cannot go unnoticed. Here, the important thing is that we understand that it is decisively delegitimizing a concrete fact, and that is why we have also sought a wording that could be assumed by the maximum of the groups. Mr Arzuaga, in his exercise of dialectical linguistic contortionism, begins by speaking about the incident in Vitoria. Then he tries to change the terms of the debate, confusing what is a judicial conviction and a judicial process, with what is an institutional and political condemnation, which is what is sought here today. Try to confuse, tide. In the end, talk about another topic. He wanted to talk about another topic, looks like Mutriku's theme, etc. We can talk on another initiative if you introduce it. Mr. Arzuaga, you have an obsession with Ertzaintza. It has an open general cause with Ertzaintza. There's nothing more to go on... with the police in general, the Civil Guard, the National Guard, and also the Ertzaintza. Lately it seems he also wants to include the local police here. And take every opportunity you have to attack her, try to delegitimize her, one way or another. Let's see, we're not gonna let one pass, we're not gonna let one pass. And every time these characteristics occur, we are going to seek a clear pronouncement from this Parliament, which we believe is best done in this way and not through an institutional declaration, as Mr Martínez Zatón also said, because it is important that society sees and that we all see what the position is and what... where we are each of the groups. He does this exercise as I said of confusion, of contortionism, so as not to use the word condemnation, rejection. Let's see, you use the word condemnation in other facts that are also very reprehensible. In gender-based violence, for example, I have seen your statements in which you use the word condemnation. If you use the word condemnation in those statements, why don't you use the word condemnation in these other statements, in these other resolutions? That's the big question, you're gonna condemn it or you're not gonna condemn it. In the end, as was to be expected, Mr Vice-Lehendakari, who is also following these debates carefully, will have seen it, in the end he seems to have come to defend the alleged aggressors, rather than to establish the situation clearly. And above all, send a clear message condemning this situation. As for the two groups that support the Government and the interventions they have both made, we can practically also show them. In the case of Mrs Martínez Grisaleño, the truth is that you could not be part of the signature of the document, because you were not an amending group. If it had been an amending group, it would have that possibility, but since it did not submit an amendment, it could not be included. It is, come on, I believe that the House's rules of procedure until we change it one of these days is what it says. That is why I am asking this Parliament today to join this resolution, which will already be supported by the majority groups. And I also take the positive side, Mr Martínez Zatón, which I believe I have understood that your group is going to support him as well. And I'm also left with a phrase that... or the content of a phrase that was also very nice that Mr.Prieto said, reminding... remembers this case to Martin Luther King, which is a phrase that in turn remembers (...), which is that the only thing you need wrong to succeed is that good people do nothing. And that's why we here today have to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Poedemus. Martíne, the word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u67	Yes, thank you. Well, to clarify some story, to tell Mr Gordillo that we are going to support the initiative, of course, is that it does not need debate for us and for us to reject, repudiate, condemn. But you said an aggression like that that has been lived in Gasteiz, or like others that have been listed today. But you said our initiative was on the other side. Our initiative says: "The Basque Parliament shows its revulsion at the aggression suffered". It repulses, according to the RAE, strong condemnation of someone or something to be considered unfair. It was very different from yours. And the second, the most important, which is the important shade. We were going a step further, and I said so, and there are the interventions I have been able to make on this issue. Politics and this Parliament is very well advised to condemn, to repudiate, to reject aggressions and all the intolerant and hateful expressions that we can have this society, and of course the one that has brought us today. But I think we need to go one step further. And that's why our initiative was talking about calling on institutions, on society as a whole and on all political forces to strengthen coexistence in order to prevent new cases like these from happening. Curiously, on 7 August, the spokesman of his group, Carmelo Barrio, held a press conference with which I fully agree with this part that I am going to say, in which he urged the Basque Government to see what initiatives it was going to take to strengthen coexistence in Euskadi. I think we weren't that far from signing a joint text, and I think in this case -- and I'm sorry to use the term -- [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... I believe that we were not so far from signing a joint text, and I believe that in this case - and I am sorry to use the term - some political blindness has blinded him so that we cannot sign the text we are going to support, but that I believe that we have to go much further and - as his spokesman said - strengthen coexistence in Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u68	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Cuckoo, you're telling me things like that ought to be called for him, but you called him Mutrikun in a different way, and you're calling him here and you're using other terms. And there, we agreed, and today I know − why, you didn't want to find that consent. And I tell you again, just a good expression from the Mutrician, but a good management. And I hope that this kind of incident never happened again because it was handled well, because some of the measures were taken. And there's no measure. Here's a statement. Called him in his name. Here or there. I don't know. A lot of sufficiency, a lot of... I wanted superiority, Mr Prieto, by joyfully attributing very grave facts to EH Bildu. Were they left-handed? Were they abertzales? Were the attackers on the left abertzale? How do you know? Does it appear in the attestation? Has Ertzaintza been investigated? Did they say that in the press? It was Mr. Gordillo's hook to bring this initiative. I think it's very serious. It seems to me very serious that you want to suggest in a certain way that EH Bildu does not know if we make a call to attack, to attack someone. And I say to you again: there is no political mandate for these events to happen. We will be very critical with the Ertzaintza, with the management of the department, but we do not tolerate any attack, no aggression, no act of discrimination against anyone, whatever their work. And it seems that it is easy to condemn expressions of violence, but not all, but not all, Mr Gordillo. To be equanimous, to keep the balance, to keep the word. Surely by the end of the year we will know facts in which Ertzaintza is exceeded. We'll know about the Ertzaintza assaults. We will know disproportion on the part of Ertzaintza. They'll beat up some worker, beat up some student, maybe perform some racist profile act. And maybe then I'll see myself in the obligation to bring in an initiative like the one you brought in today, and let's look at the terms on which you express. And let us look at the terms of such violence with which you express yourselves. Or if we don't maybe see that they have some terms for some violence and others for others. And that's called hypocrisy. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the far right, are very concerned about hate crimes, so much so that you bring us to debate precisely those which are not hate crimes. Again, it is not hate crimes that are attributable to attacks or attacks on the police. And in that joyful, creative, expansive attribution that you carry out of responsibilities, perhaps I could attribute to you, for example, being that your position is close to stigmatizing certain collectives. Since here in Gasteiz you have stirred up the scarecrow of racism and xenophobia, of immigration as a source of all evils. Perhaps you too should be charged with 162 hate crimes for racism and xenophobia in last year's hate crime report. And they'll tell me that's an exaggeration. That is an absolutely unfair approach. Well, perhaps just as unfair as giving us certain responsibilities. I was working on this initiative and I looked at ten manipulation strategies that Noam Chomsky proposed. To fit the initiative into one of these strategies, one of them was the distraction strategy: "to divert the attention of the public with insignificant information". 3,000 cases in Madrid, one case, two cases - Mr Prieto tried to add some more - three cases, four cases... 3,000 in Madrid, they haven't moved a finger. But I think it was more appropriate to fit it into another manipulation strategy that is announced as creating problems to pretend to propose solutions. You create problems, inflame problems, build problems, but unfortunately you pose absolutely no solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u71	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Arzuaga, I appreciate the abstention you have announced here, but I think it is insufficient and I will explain it to you. I do not think it is enough, and I also think that you do not agree with the explanation I give, because it seems to me that it is abstract that Parliament is a place where it is remembered, controlled, but it is also rivalled and there is also a political position of demand. It is something that we constantly make groups to others around countless aspects of politics. And of course, around this one too. Look, we cannot accept an amendment that tells us that we have to move towards coexistence. You can't pose it to us. Nor can I accept among his explanations that when I tell him that we cannot accept him, because we are already settled in coexistence and in freedom. Plant what we have... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... that when I say that we cannot accept it - because we are already settled in coexistence and freedom - I suggest that we have, or that I have, in this case, as the spokesman, an ethical and political superiority. Well, if you want to see it like that, you can see it. But, man, I certainly don't know if superiority, but having been in the right place throughout history defending life and freedom, there we are the socialists, and many more political groups, but there we are the socialists. Can that be an ethical and political superiority? Well, on the balance sheet of a long time I think so. Because there's someone who's been in the wrong place. And in the wrong place have been people of their ranks, and have been people who have been justifying violent actions or even participated, who have been convicted; even then they are in life like others because they have served their sentences. Therefore, man, let there be more demand towards you seems quite reasonable, because you have to make a transit to the end in which, to whom we have always been on the side of life and freedom, give us enough confidence, we truly believe that this is so. Because it is difficult to understand and interpret that the spaces of violence in the Basque Country always occur around them, always occur around people of particular ideology and, moreover, against objectives already stigmatized throughout history. And that's why, well, there's a political position in which we ask you to have greater strength. I have already told you that we should not use those who have not made the journey that others have made the terms of condemnation and rejection, because there is no doubt in us, there is doubt, in any case, or nuances, elsewhere. Look, freedom is not a concept of quantity, it's a concept of quality. And whether there are more cases in one territory or another does not take the importance of quality away from it. It is enough that there is an act of violence so that it can be rejected and condemned. There's no need for 500, you don't have to react to society when there's 500; you have to react to society when there's one. For when one does not react with one, the second occurs, and so on, until the sum of the sum is added. Therefore, we still have a political discrepancy pending, because we believe that Sortu politically and Bildu institutionally can give more of themselves, and must give more of themselves. And it is obliged to give more of itself to make a settlement tour, which has not yet done enough - in our view - on this matter. And this is the demand that we make for you here. And so, politically, because this is politics, among other things. And Mr Erkoreka, move from the institutional formality, at least from this parliamentary group, to the ertzainas who have suffered the aggressions all solidarity and all affection. In the same way as I transfer all the solidarity of the Socialist Group to Mr Iturgaiz, father and son, on the political and family sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u72	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mr Arzuaga, today you have come to this debate with the amendment that we actually adopted in Mutriku. I couldn't have come up with Gasteiz's text because you didn't endorse it. And the truth is that today, then, well, the Basque-Euzko Abertzaleak Nationalist Group has signed a compromise amendment with the Socialist Group and the PPCiudadans Group because we understood, and we understand, that it dealt with a concrete fact in a concrete and clear way. I found him angry because today he did not count on the PNV crutch for this debate. I thought he was angry. Then - and I hope it's not exactly what you're looking for - you've come to tell us that by the end of the year, we'll see, how the ertzaine is going to do this, it's going to do the other, the beyond. I hope you're not looking forward to it, I'll give you that margin. But, in the end, all these debates that we usually have about Ertzaintza, about our police, the impression I have is that you or you are unable to show a minimum degree of empathy with Ertzaintza. Minimal, minimal degree of empathy. This is still a taboo for you. It's a taboo. And it's the particular ruby you must cross. But you must cross it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u74	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Missa-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Well, as was to be expected, each political group has played its role perfectly and according to the expected script. We could apply the chorus of that famous song by Julio Iglesias that said "life is the same." Bildu has fulfilled perfectly with his usual paper not to condemn any of the violent actions carried out by his puppies. And they do not condemn because condemning intimidation, harassment, insults and aggressions that occur in the Basque Country for ideological reasons would be condemning themselves. Because those who are behind all this seed and germ of hatred are themselves... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... ideological reasons would be to condemn themselves. Because those who are behind all this seed and germ of hatred are themselves. Those who have permeated so many years of so much suffering and pollution have been precisely Bildu and his previous brands. And that is something that is well known to all of us who make up this House. We can also remember the recent Ospa Eguna, also of them. Bildu has therefore never condemned or will never condemn either these episodes or ETA terrorism because, I repeat, it would only be self-incrimination. They're the same old ones, but with different necklaces. They are the same ones that have publicly justified ETA terrorism for decades. They are the same ones that for decades have received and continue to receive ETA terrorists as gudaris between victors and irrintzis, with the invaluable license and coming from institutional leaders. And, as was to be expected, there has also been no surprise about the positioning of the PNV. Today they condemn the actions of this world, but last Thursday, during the general policy plenary, they made continuous appeals and appeals to what you call "country agreement." With whom? Precisely with Bildu. Today they condemn, but five minutes later they agree and agree with those whose actions they have previously condemned. Today they condemn violence, but in parallel they legitimize and naturalize as main interlocutors those who support their perpetrators. Today they condemn, but they keep Ertzaintza manipulated and gagged, preventing them from acting against the violent acts that the police themselves suffer. And we do not say this, but it is the Ertzaintza's own unions who direct writings to their respective commands by denouncing these facts and requesting orders to act and clean our streets from the age-old scenery. Therefore, this attitude can only be understood from condescension and historical complicity by omission with the radicals. We believe that a change is necessary, Mr Erkoreka. Because everyone here, including you, knows who is responsible for violence and harassment in the Basque Country. And their responsibility is to act, not just talk. Act and stop whitening a political party that has a very black heart.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u76	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-direction that the Basque Groups of Popula-Ciudadans, the Basque Socialists, and the Eucabertarians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; 51; the opponents are 0; Abstations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u77	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal as a parlamentary group of Misto-Vox, concerning the establishment of the TicketBAI system in three euscal provinces. Discipline and final resolution. The representative of the Mistto-Vox team on the part of the proposed team has the word. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. From the process of implementing the TicketBAI system in the Basque Country it is deduced that it is Alava where tax fraud needs more urgent attention, followed by Gipuzkoa and then Bizkaia. It also seems that all small traders and entrepreneurs who handle physical money are potential defrauders. That is why it is they themselves who have to pay for this system of control that the Basque Parliaments and Government have imposed. In addition, it has highlighted that equality between Basques is not a priority of this Executive, which, as in other areas, such as education or health care, equal rights, duties and opportunities are little more than an empty slogan of content. Who else are you thinking of blaming for the data at this point in the process of implementing TicketBAI in the three provinces that make up this region? We suppose they will blame the merchants themselves, businessmen, perhaps also customers, who are the heads of Turkish of all this painful management. At this point, on September 29, 2022, TicketBAI is confirmed as a system supposedly programmed to fight tax fraud, but in case something stands out is for generating huge differences between all Basques. Different implementation times: in Álava, for example, right now; in Gipuzkoa, it will culminate in July next year; in Bizkaia, early 2024. As I was telling you, we may have to interpret that the fight against tax fraud in Alava businesses and establishments is more urgent, then continue with the Gipuzcoans and end with the vizcains, seemingly more compliant with the Treasury. And I say this because Councilman Azpiazu informed us that there is harmonization in terms of the fundamentals of the implementation of this system, depending on the rest of the peculiarities and singularities of each province. Is it a singularity of the small businessman praised his desire for tax fraud? I'd say no way. The Basque Government does not allow citizens to be suffocated with more regulation and more economic burdens. In addition to the costs they face to keep their businesses open, keep their own jobs and create jobs, they are added a new cost with the implementation of this control software. They have not yet recovered from the economic warp that involved the confinement of the pandemic and the restrictions imposed by the Basque Government and, in addition, we now have energy bills that duplicate those of a few months ago, with the huge increase in prices for the customer and also for the entrepreneur. Therefore, the imposition of TicketBAI will drown them even more. In addition, different costs and different aid depending on the place where the employer has discharged his activity. There are some coincidences: for example, in Álava and Gipuzkoa deductions of 30% of the IRPF or corporate tax... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...has discharged his activity. There are some coincidences: for example, in Álava and Gipuzkoa, deductions of 30% of the IRPF or corporate tax, unless incorporated one month before the mandatory period. In that case, the deductions shall be 60 %. And here lies another of the differences with Bizkaia, because there that 60% is not so obvious. The percentage to be deducted will depend on the lead time, which will also be variable. But there's more. Aid of up to EUR 1,000 per employer has been granted in Álava. That is, it will have to cost in advance the implementation of the TicketBAI system in its trade or establishment, and then we will see if the bureaucratic obstacles allow them to access these aids, while in Gipuzkoa the aids will be of 1,200 euros, provided that the professional to whom the invoices are issued does so in Basque. Covert linguistic imposition that leads us to the purpose of discriminating again against people without a Euskaldun profile. And there is more, such as the exemption in force in Gipuzkoa for entrepreneurs over 60 years of age to which the Alavesa hacienda is added but not the Vizcaine. Let it be clear that no one here is equal, that the rights and duties of everyone change from province to province and from region to region, faithful to the particular socialist national concept of equality between persons. It also strongly draws attention to the fact that on this occasion the Basque Government does not seem to have proposed that harmonization between territories go beyond the foundations of the imposition of this measure. And it draws attention, even more, when from the Basque Government there is the deflating of the IRPF to alleviate, for example, the consequences of the energy crisis and the escalation of prices; and that the three parliaments, governed by identical parties, assume without hesitation, without even raising their peculiarities and singularities, to which the Councillor of Finance referred and which seem to justify the gallimities in which the TicketBAI system has become and, even more, its implementation. Call it what you think, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and PSOE, but this is inequality between Basques, inequality between Spaniards, further promoted by Basque public administrations once again. On the other hand, we are not going to question the need to act decisively against tax fraud, but not with a sort of Minority Report, which enables them to accuse with their finger towards those who please or do well; in this case, towards small traders and entrepreneurs whom they vehemently accuse of fraudsters. They do not seem to have even considered how it feels to be someone who strictly complies with the tax and today has to deal with a tax expenditure, a expenditure, moreover, nothing negligible, so that those who defraud do not escape the surveillance of the Chamber. We all know that fraudsters are a minority, but we all pay for them; to a large extent for the disdain and vagrancy of an administration that for decades has resisted addressing the problem of tax fraud with determination and means. I wonder what data you have to prioritise the surveillance and persecution of small traders who make transactions with cash and sound in a regular manner. And the answer is the obvious one: they do not have them, they lack certainties, and therefore, it is not justifiable that "Great Brother" who are forcing to install at zero cost for the administrations, and so they have ordered. If you impose control, you pay for it. His TicketBAI reminds us of some huge posters that the Maduro government placed in strategic places in Caracas where everyone could see them. In them appeared two eyes looking, with no word explaining their raison d'être. The goal: who or who they were looking at. They were just there to let everyone know that the Government was watching. And this Government is doing the same: with a system that exceeds the information necessary for the public administration, it interferes in the personal activities of citizens. This is a totalitarian expression of the public administration that abuses the coercive power of the Treasury. They invest human resources, time and money in making a thorough study of tax fraud in this region and in Spain as a whole, and act accordingly. They tend to do the same thing as the cheap progression that governs us: to accuse the great fortunes, the energy companies, anyone who considers rich of the great problems of this country. Moreover, the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union, in its Article 2.2c, excludes from its scope the processing of personal data carried out by a natural person in the exercise of exclusively personal or domestic activities. The TicketBAI is a direct interference in the purchases that citizens decide to make and do not have to inform the public administration. But all this does not matter to them, because the end justifies the means, and their goal is no other than control. For all the above reasons, we consider it fair that the Basque Government guarantees equality between Basques in implementing the TicketBAI system; that it exercises the leadership of which it presumes so much in other cases, and that it obliges the deputies to agree on each other and to avoid the comparative aggravation; that the Basque Government, as well as the other administrations involved, assume in full the cost of implementing the TicketBAI - let us not forget that the cost of such implementation can range from 500 to 4,000 euros - a very significant amount at the difficult time we are living in and in which many businesses are drowning in debts; that the Basque Government encourages the exemption throughout the region of small entrepreneurs and traders over 60 years old who have to implement the TicketBAI and adapt their day-to-day to a system that generates discriminatory inequalities, as I say, from some Basques with others. And one last point before giving the floor to the representatives of the groups whom I look forward to participating in a debate on tax fraud and the things to eat of those who are suffering particularly dramatically from the current double crisis and the way in which the administrations should proceed to ensure their interests. It is absolutely unacceptable that they are again violating the freedom of persons. Vasco and Diputacións impose a software that can only install a very small list of companies and that, when it is necessary to renew such software, the trader, the small businessman, will be forced to pay this process without being able to negotiate the price, without being able to resort to another supplier. All this, obviously, sounds very bad: re-smelling of chanchullo and public funds distributed in a way... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ...without being able to use another supplier. All of this, obviously, sounds very bad: re-smelling of chanchullo and public funds distributed in an interesting way. And, as I say, I leave you, who will want to share your views and your vision with independents, with small entrepreneurs, with merchants, and also with customers who must be subject to extra surveillance by the government and the deputies. Your time has come, so, cheer up. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u79	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Popula-Ciudados, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u80	Thank you very much, Madam President. And thank you, Mrs Martínez too, for the invitation to participate in the debate that... I love to participate in these debates about taxation, about tax fraud, about those who create wealth about those who extract it, about how to redistribute it, that to redistribute something you have to create it first... What is happening is that we understand (...) in particular that the concrete debate that you bring about, because of the specific measures that arise, I believe that this is not the most appropriate House to discuss them, because, man, that is a competence, let us say, in this case, proper to the General Councils themselves and to the Foral Chambers. I think it is very interesting the debate that you are putting forward in the following terms. The implementation of the formula, the TicketBAI, which is being made in the three Chambers, which, in fact, is aimed at changing, or changing the billing system... above all, will affect the self-employed, that is, the people who carry out economic activities... So, of course, he's having a lot of problems. One of the groups in our coalition here in Parliament, PP-Citizens, the PP at the three General Councils has already shown this, has denounced it and, indeed, here in Álava, for example, has already proposed to postpone it, has it not? You spoke on your initiative that in some of the three territories, in fact, it will be postponed until 2024. And here, in Álava, then, there is also a similar position. Because this type of measures is true that it is good that you have a legal holiday, that is, have a relatively broad period of adaptation. That, as far as the form of the debate is concerned. We, I insist, understand that this is a competence of the General Councils. Man, I understand that since you don't have representation on the General Boards, so that's why you bring him here, you do have representation, right? But we do understand that this is a debate, above all, because of the technical nature of the issue. As far as measures are concerned, the specific motions for resolutions he makes in his proposal. Of course, "The Basque Parliament...", you say in the first place: "I urge the Basque Government to lead the egalitarian implementation of the TicketBAI system in the three Basque provinces so that it will take place at the same time, that is, not before 1 January 2024." Of course, "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government", which does not have competence either. The Basque Parliament could call on the Basque Government to either urge the General Councils, or urge the Parliament, both in the executive and legislative parts. The Basque Government here does not even have a coordinating competence. A resolution could indeed be adopted to urge the Boards or the Chamber to present an initiative in this regard, but I insist that it does not have the competence. As far as taxation is concerned, in our specific case in the Basque Country, you already know that the system is complex because there are - let us say - three fiscal territories, which have coordination through an agency, central agencies, in which the Basque Government does participate, others in which the central Government also participates, and the General Boards, the Chambers, and in particular the General Boards, have the capacity to modify certain taxes, regulations and certain fiscal matters, provided that a tax pressure can be maintained which can be approved in all the territories; let us say that this is the limit that the Boards and the Chambers themselves have in the broad sense of taxation. This specific case that you pose is a very concrete, very administrative case, which of course has a very real, very true impact, and, in some cases, complex and costly, as you have rightly said here, in the pockets, especially of the self-employed, who are ultimately the ones who are really creating wealth. On the second point, you also propose that the Basque Parliament urge the Basque Government to ensure that the cost of implementing the TicketBAI will be borne in full by the administrations that have agreed to the measure, right? I insist, the proposal is interesting, but once again the Basque Government here lacks competition. Because, moreover, it is a tremendously administrative matter, which this is the responsibility of the Boards, and specifically it would also be the responsibility of their executive branch, which also has a budget, and, by the way, it also has important remnants in the three Chambers that could perfectly be used to alleviate a little, in fact, the cost of implementation that you have calculated, I believe, to have understood, of some 4,000 or 5,000 euros, which may be more, in those affected. On the last point that you raise, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to ensure that the compulsory implementation of the system is not applicable to those over 60 years of age; this is the case similar to the previous case. We can agree, indeed, with what is the specific measure, but we do understand - and so one of the parties is doing through its institutional groups in the three General Boards of the three historical territories of the Basque Country - that this type of measure and that the implementation of this measure, which in this case is understood to tend to fight tax fraud, is implemented with the least degree of impact on daily life and, let us say, on the dynamics proper to entrepreneurs, who have a lot to do with... the self-employed have to carry out a business rather than, in addition, to carry them with - in this case - some issues, some administrative burdens that in some cases can be quite broad. As I said, the debate is interesting. We can agree with much of the issues you raise, and that is why one of the coalition groups is going to do it, through the General Councils, to do it, to do it and to control the corresponding government outside the three General Councils in all aspects. We therefore welcome the fact that there is a debate, because we believe that this may also give rise to interest and, above all, to awareness on the part of the Government, so that, in the area of its powers, the Basque Government can establish certain aids and, above all, can simplify them as far as possible. Because governments often focus on realizing... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it can establish certain aids and, above all, it can simplify as far as possible. Because governments often focus on realizing their own... they understand their own function, as it is technically said in a self-referential way. In other words, they are only often concerned with creating new systems, new registers, new burdens, and forget about the fundamentals, which also have a role to play in facilitating economic activity as far as possible, to create wealth that can then be distributed for the benefit of all citizens. That is why I am announcing that our vote, very positively appreciating the content of the initiative, will be abstaining in this case. And the main argument is the lack of competition in this case from this Parliament. And, above all, because where we come from we understand this debate is within the three general meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. To answer it, Mistto-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u82	Well, you have indeed run to share positions on this new tax. Plus with Basque Label, the one they love so much. A new missed opportunity to demonstrate that you are concerned about people's problems. Again they refuse to discuss a parliamentary initiative by Vox, even though they know that there are many self-employed, entrepreneurs, traders, who do not like the TicketBAI, who comply with the Treasury, who see with very bad eyes the obligation to implement a certain software, who bother not to know how much they will update it or with what periodicity they will have to do it, and who distrust the true intentions of the Basque tax. They know, and they keep quiet, in a demonstration of their bet on apartheid to the contrary. Of the democratic squabble that you presume, it's simply a mouthpiece. Now they'll come out ripping their clothes and crying out that Vox is bringing an initiative to churn. Finally, the exercise of political irresponsibility that you put into this House on a daily basis is obvious and, moreover, it makes it clear that the slogan, that so worn out you use of no one will be behind it, is a falsehood. Because there are many Basques who, thanks to this government and the parties that support it, have already left behind. Mr. Gordillo, I share with you that this subject had to be brought to meetings and town hall. As you know, we have no representation. For now, we'll have to look into the future. And then we brought him here because we know of the great capacity of the Basque Government to intercede with the parliaments. We saw it in the announcement made by the lehendakari at the plenary on the other day on Thursday, in which he spoke of deflating the IRPF by 4%. That is also the case with the parliaments, and yet there was a clear agreement, so they could also reach that agreement on this issue. I want to make it clear that there are thousands of small businesses that have rejected the implementation of the TicketBAI, or that have begged the outside administrations to delay to this extent. Why don't you listen to the citizenry? You know that the timetables for implementing this new tax leave no room for manoeuvre so that companies can adapt technologically to this system. Why don't you listen to the citizenry? All businesses and self-employed people are overtaken by the technical problems that this measure poses, and by the great economic cost that it entails, when they have not yet recovered from the pandemic that has hit us, and when they are suffering one of the greatest crises of recent times. Why don't you listen to the citizenry? Hostelers, merchants and self-employed professionals are in a regulatory chaos, because each foral hacienda has established its own rules, deadlines, deductions and bonuses, generating great inequalities between them. Why don't you listen to the citizenry? The data of the companies affiliated to TicketBAI at present date. note the failure of this regulation. You are fully aware that there is no tax fraud in small business that justifies the urgency of its implementation, and that it is also taking place at an absolutely inopportune time, which is going to speed up the closure of many businesses. That it's rushing the closure of many businesses. But it seems that this government of no one will be left behind, it cares very little about the difficulties of its citizens. Well, Vox does worry us. We are very concerned about our hoteliers, merchants, self-employed and all those families that depend on them. That is why we call on this government and the outlaws to rebuild for the benefit of our companies. It is not the time to put obstacles to our economy, but to support it. And not with words as usual, but with deeds. They impose a certain software, limit to the maximum the ability to choose from businesses, to which they require an economic disbursement that they will not in any case cover in full. And, not to mention, they accuse the sector of being a potential tax fraudster, without evidence and without data. No personalized surgery. Coffee for all, who pay righteous for sinners, which must be controlled to the fullest. And of course, we must continue to fatten their arks, feeding a surplus that no one knows what they will be spent on. Well, I'm sure you know that, but I'm afraid it's absolutely unrecognizable. Our initiative and my interventions will be recorded in the Basque Parliament's logbook. The meaning of their vows and their silence will also be recorded. Absolutely embarrassing. The proof of the cotton of its level as democrats, of its lack of respect for all Basque citizens, who have chosen us all. And to discuss and solve your problems you obviously should not be, as right now, for many, the problem is the installation of the TicketBAI.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u83	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscalal Popular-Ciudados Groups. Mr. Gordillo mustn't speak. After discussion, we'll vote with the original text of a proposition as well as Misto. We can vote... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 71; in favour 1, 65; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u84	So it's not like it's accepted. Five point in theme list: "To judge of the results of the heart rates made in the hospitals of the Union and the Tribunal Hospitals of the Cross. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u85	Good afternoon, Mrs. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, health department. The theme which we bring to-day is not new. We've discussed this law several times. At the same time in this house we had representatives of the Cardiology of the Basurto, and representatives of the professionals of other specialities. The Medical Department has created a problem where there wasn't a problem. It's the antithesis of a good management. What are you going to do in a good management? Well, what works well, what is refercial, keep it, don't touch it. And in his case, it's better. But no, he did the opposite. He'll destroy it and demise the service. The health Department defined a strategy for the entire EAE of the surgery heart, and then decided on this strategy, but we didn't have it. We're standing in front of a subject that must be solved and solved because it's not a solution and can't come with a one-sided decision from the Medical Department. Not to mention it to professionally committed medical health and not to agree. The solution should be based on scientific evidence, results, and a serious examination. And there's no doubt that it's a decision that's shared and agreed with professional health. Because if we don't count on the professionals who will be there in the diary, then that decision is finally doomed, it's a doomed disaster. And not only this, but the public health system should come to the EAE with the vision of the strategy which originally was to be a member of the Osar. And, on the other hand, we have just seen that the medical department is based on the arguments of what will only be more operated on by a number of publicities, in which the number of individuals is made based on the positive influence of the results. At least this is the principal argument which has been added to the groups which maintain the government in this house, although the Department of Health is not so much focused on this argument. But the question is: Will there really be more operations on the cross? Is it true that there will be more surgery? Because if we put them all together in one group, if we combine them mathematically, it doesn't mean that more operations will be performed on space... If we have the same surgery, it doesn't mean more surgeons will operate. And so the primary argument of the Medical Department hitherto established is uncertain and uncertain. But before this argument the Medical Department put another argument, namely, that it was precisely the artificial heart-representation that was sought to carry the heart-surto-heart to the Cross. But at once it was evident that this argument had no credibility, that it had no weight. In fact, we have Valdecilla within a few miles of time, the patients are transferred there to make ordinary tracts. And one of the only abodes in which such transfers may be made in the State, is very difficult to place in EA, and is not real. We have seen, therefore, that though the Medical Department has attempted to place arguments on the media and on the legislature, it has not attempted to share and agree with the professionals involved in these arguments. And anyway, as we know that it has not been done by −gu, in the examination of the results of the surgical heart of the U.S.I.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.O.O. We don't know. And that's exactly what we're asking for today. What we're asking for is an audition, a study, and a decision to move out of it. When the workers of the Basurto came to this house, that's what they asked us to do. And we think it's the minimum that this house can do. Let's look into the results and see the result, we'll make our decisions. And we thought the Medical Department would be ready for this or that study, but we realized in July that the Department of Health was not ready for that. In fact, he had taken advantage of the summer to set up changes in professional health. Por cyto, those who are read, whether from the natives or from the labourers, yes (sachen? On the other hand, yes and medical unions. You can't rule and you can't make decisions when professionals and unions are opposed. It was the best decision in the world. It was the best proposition in the world. If the worker who makes the decisions and the surroundings aren't agreed, this decision is doomed to failure. The decisions must be shared. That's it, isn't it? Egibar proclaimed it in the pliant of the preceding general policy. He told us that EAJ ruled in a collaboratory government that he was making decisions with the community. Well, this isn't exactly a collaboratory government and... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... in colaborating government, he made decisions with the community. Well, this isn't exactly a collaboratory government and it's not a decision to make out with the community. Besides, without examining the results of the two existing buildings, without examining the list of waits, without examining the means of working, i.e., without any kind of hearing, how are we to combine the results? How's the comparison going to be done? For ye are continually saying, as a mantra, that this resolution is to improve the results; but what to improve? Habláis de mejor. Mejor el qué? Y si no hay una auditoría, si no hay un studio, uneluego cómo sera la valuación? Sobre qué se medica la mejora? Maybe it's just as simple as we think, and only the Medical Department thought of taking that decision in order to improve his position on the Cross. But, klarus, what you can't do to improve when you think of one thing, another problem has been created, everything is destroyed, everything is undone. And less when it's a reference and it's an excellent one. And what can't be was the wrong use of money. Because here, five years ago, there was an investment of 15 million euros making surgerys more. What about that money to the trash now? And do we make more money in other places to do other works? Is that the proper use of public money? What's going to happen? In the meantime, we empty the Basurto and use the infrastructure there. It might have been another possible decision, and it might have been, to place surgery in the heart of the Cross. It's another chance, but it's not a decision. And we have also seen that from other hospitals there has been an attempt to convey other services to the Cross, all to the Cross. We don't know why, we don't know what's back there. But isn't the Cross enough for everything he's got? He's in terrible trouble. There's a problem in the pediatric Onkology, there's problems in nurses, there's trouble with the Matrons. Let's settle the Cross first, and leave the right things where they are. But the problem is not the competition between the two hospitals or the hospitals. We don't say that we have to work on the network, in order to strengthen the public health system in Hosa, but what we do afterwards is the only function of surgery in public health, while we dedicate the patients of Gipulia and Araba. Is that what strengthens public health system? What we need here is a strategy, a strategy to strengthen the public health system, not a limited vision, not a stalling, etc., etc., etc. And we need to focus on patients. All this has to be for the patient's best. I wonder where the patients are? What's going on with waiting for what? We are seeing that the patient is not a preference; in the end, patients must adapt themselves to a manner of organization and function, instead of to the patient, order and politics. We could talk about this for a long time, Mrs. Cedui. You sent it to us in responses about the waiting lists, around the chimneys, and after you had seen the data, to the SOS Osar. We have a big problem. I don't know if we notice that. SOS, Mrs. Appledui. The SOS Os part. Have you seen the waiting lists, complaints? Data, objective data. And those data isn't ours, they're given by the Medical Department. And what that requires is a strong reflection and a rethinking of the situation. The man who asks for less martinets and more politics, but especially the change of politics. But, well, another day we'll talk about it. Today, just an audition, we're asking for an examination. We think it minimal, that we were asked to do so, and that we ought to give a positive answer to it, because to work from the system is essential to the data. A test on the results, a test. And in the meantime? As long as the Department of Health stops the resolution agreed on the 7th of July. Is that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u87	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Yes, as has been said here, this subject is not new, we have discussed it several times. Our group conducted an interpelation to the chief physician, the head physician of the Medical Department, and we discussed a motive. And as it was mentioned here, we also had the appearance of professionals at the Medical Committee. According to this, we may safely say that the subject is not new. The closure of the Basurto Cardiac Surgery Service, as I said, is not a new issue. There has been a debate in this Parliament. This same group made an inquiry to the health counselor herself, from which it arose from a motion. And with this topic, as we have already pointed out on several occasions, regarding the debates that have arisen, and we also had the opportunity to have the appearance of the professionals who gave us their vision, there is clearly a lack of planning - we see it this way - of resources... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... your vision. There is clearly a lack of planning – we see it this way – of Osakidetza's care resources that the Department of Health is doing. And why do we say this? We say this, because this decision, not only to us, but to a list of professionals, as I said, heads of service, seems to them unjustified and unexplained, and moreover, it has generated a deep discomfort, not only the professionals concerned, but also the users themselves. We are talking about the oldest service of the Basque Country's Autonomous Community of Cardiac Surgery reference in specific areas, and its closure will mean a decline in cancer care not only in Bilbao, but in the whole of Bizkaia and in the whole of the Basque Country's Autonomous Community. No one escapes that it will affect techniques, such as diagnostic, therapeutic techniques. We're talking about structural hypercutaneous interventions, cardiac arrhythmia treatments, cardiovascular emergencies. And, no doubt, its closure also has some effects (?) in other services, not to mention that it will also have an influence on the worsening of waiting lists. Another issue that we have not understood, and that is why we point out that it is not a justified or explainable decision, is that in 2017 investments of 17 million euros were made, and therefore, we believe that it is not acceptable that when we are talking about investments and that an important investment effort is being made in new infrastructures in a hospital, a decision will be made in the opposite direction within a few years. These investments, moreover, should be very important, because the inauguration was not only invited this commission, but also the lehendakari himself came and an advertisement was made, well, quite significant of these investments. On the other hand, we do not understand this decision either, because the activity related to cardiac surgery is already having an important exponential growth, taking into account the aging of the population. And, on the other hand, also, as I was saying, we are talking about one of the oldest centers, which is a reference center in some techniques, such as cardiac arrhythmias or advanced heart failure. On the other hand, also in emergency cases we see that complications can arise with difficulties of transfer, especially when we are talking – as I said – about cardiovascular emergencies and specific cases of aorta dissections. The cardiologists themselves, when they also appeared in this commission, strongly affirmed that Cruces cannot assume the fusion of the two services, because he does not have enough beds and (?) necessary for these patients. We are also talking about an important activity in both centres. The counselor herself in response to the inquiry pointed out that we would be talking about about 300 cases in Basurto, 400 in Cruces. And we also have to say that Osakidetza before summer delayed stopping the decision to close heart surgery. Another issue that would also be affected was the provision of training. And this is also not understandable at a time when we are precisely in need of increasing the formative demand offered in the different university hospitals, and among them the Basque Country, if we want to train healthcare professionals that we lack from them, and of that we know a lot also in the Basque Country, where we have seen and are systematically seeing that there are not healthcare professionals, nursing professionals, doctors for the care that is needed by the Basque population. Another reason that makes this decision inexplicable is that it seems advisable – as we also had occasion to check – that in a pandemic era or a time when there may be an infectious outbreak, it would be necessary to preserve the existence of two sites. In this regard, professionals have also called for the preservation of a two-seat service, although they did point out that the option of unifying their planning could be blocked to improve management as well. Nor do we understand that if these two services, as they were doing, had so many... and have so many kindnesses, and if it was so necessary to unify the two services at Cruces, why has not been done so far, taking into account, as I said, that in addition, investments have been made in 2017. That's why he was talking about planning. I do not know how planning is done in Osakidetza and in the Department of Health, but making an investment of 117 million euros five years ago to now throw it away, because it does not seem very reasonable, nor does it seem to me to be an appropriate criterion and an example of management, considering that we are talking about the public money that we pay with our taxes all Basque citizens. Nor do we understand that the counselor tells us that a new technique such as that of the permanent mechanical heart can be implanted, when the department itself knows that this technique is closely linked to the realization of heart transplants, and here there are no heart or lung transplants, and the nearest center is Valdecilla. In short, we still do not understand a decision that is inexplicable by all the arguments I have just made and put... I have put it on the table, which we have already put forward in the motion that we had occasion to bring to your debate in this House, and in that sense, well, it may have seemed appropriate to us the request of the professionals themselves that is reflected in this initiative of carrying out an audit, but we have added that it is an external audit and not only that it collaborates with the Spanish Society of Cardiology, but with other entities, societies that can be... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... added that it is an external audit, and not only that it collaborates with the Spanish Society of Cardiology, but with other entities, societies that may be deemed necessary. With regard to the other amendment by the groups supporting the Government, I have to say that it does not seem right to us, because in the end it is going on the path that has already been taken, which is the process of merging the two services of Cardiac Surgery. I think we are once again discussing this issue, but what we would like to see is for the department to reflect, for Parliament to reconsider this decision, and before taking any decision we believe that it would be appropriate for an evaluation to be carried out, that we, yes, call for it to be external in order to be impartial and absolutely transparent in relation to this issue. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u88	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u89	Thank you, President. Well, I believe that following the previous speeches, it is clear that the objective of this initiative, and also the amendment, although, well, the amendment is not to blame, a text is proposed and we must amend, is to question again or even reject the merger of the unification of Cardiac Surgery in Bizkaia, and I think we need to speak clearly, Mrs Ubera. And this is a project that we have already discussed in this House. We have done so through a non-legislative proposal that your group raised, a motion that the People's Party put forward, all of these two accumulated in the month of March, and we have also had here the appearance of the Basurto Cardiology Service in the month of June, which was requested by Elkarrekin Podemos. Therefore, we already know that you do not agree with this fusion project, what we do not know very well is why really, and that is so and it is more, I say to you that these doubts of why you increase when you read this initiative that you have presented, and I will explain, because today EH Bildu asks us to paralyze this project, and to justify this claim it comes to pose an audit of the heart surgeries of Basurto and Cruces, and to dress it in some way, because he also proposes to bring us to a scientific society, because in the end he saw a lot of bringing in a scientific society, but it is the problem that EH Bildu, from my point of view, has not chosen the alibi well, because to put in the Spanish Society of Cardiology as an alibi to pose, to paralyze the project of unification of cardiac surgery in Bizkaia, is a bad idea, and it is a bad idea, because this society, specifically this scientific society, and many others are the ones that are advising – and read a minimally a surgical decision: Of course, it is that the reflection around the desirability of the unification of these two services does not arise out of nothing, it is not even an occurrence, it is that it comes directly from the recommendations of the different scientific societies after analyzing the mortality and the volume of activity between professionals and hospitals, and you know it, and all the studies show a clear and evident conclusion. The services with higher volume have better survival data, and that's not what we're looking for, because I think so. And that's not why some documents, no, it's not true, it's not true that some documents, no, the vast majority of documents, the vast majority of recommendations of scientific societies go that way. We read: "The Spanish Society of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery that established in 2011 as the optimal volume of activity for major surgery the 600 interventions per center and year" – and went beyond this – also the 70 major operations per year for each surgeon. And so, by the way, he moved to the recommendations of the Ministry of Health. Health Ministry that ruled the People's Party, which now says it doesn't understand this. Well, let's see what those recommendations from the Ministry of Health – I read literally – said: "Cardiovascular surgery should not be provided to hospitals with fewer than 600 major interventions per year." And as I've told you, that's what makes the Spanish Society of Cardiology itself the one that collects on page 33 – I say the page for you to read it, so you don't have to believe it, so you don't have to read it – from the RECALCAR registry of the year 2021, that the low number of services that respects that minimum of 600 interventions probably indicates the need to make resource management decisions. And they know that neither Basurto nor Cruces alone come to those 600 interventions, together, yes, no more or less. And I say that they know, because in fact this already knows both EH Bildu and the rest of the groups, and not because I told them in the debate that we had in March, but because also in March the documentation that the EH Bildu group had requested in relation to this was sent in writing, is this touch I have here. Here goes the document of consensus and positioning of the Spanish Society of Cardiovascular Thoracic Surgery, where this need is collected. The studies that attest to it, the standards of the ministry, as well as the unification project, but also, in this information also came information regarding the cardiac surgery activity of Basurto (?)a Cruces from 2016 to 2021, mortality analyzed in 2015 to 2021, and waiting list to day 28 February 2022. And yet, today in this rostrum you have come up to say that we have no data. It's not true, it's not true, Mrs. Ubera, you've asked them, they've been sent to you and here they are. Another thing is that I didn't want to analyze them. And citizens may not have to know, but we do have an obligation to read the... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... They've been sent to you and here they are. Another thing is that I didn't want to analyze them. And citizens may not have to know, but we do have an obligation to read the answers to the questions we ask. And, moreover, I believe that it cannot be understood that this very Monday the basis of EH Bildu's speech in the Health Commission regarding the (Acot?), you will recall, was that the recommendations of scientific societies had to be complied with and, moreover, that European standards had to be met. And three days later, in this plenary, with this initiative, the same group seems to us to be thinking that we should ignore scientific societies and, of course, not go to European standards, which are well above those 600 operations per centre. And, if I may, it does not seem appropriate to me to want to pose this as a kind of competition between public hospitals, because it is not. Neither Basurto nor Cruces separately reach 600; but together, yes. There's just no other way to see it. We said it already in March and today we repeat it again. The Basque Socialists continue to want the Basurto Hospital to remain the reference hospital for the Bilbaos and Bilbaos. And, by the way, in March we tabled an amendment calling on the Basque Government to guarantee the economic resources and also the infrastructure necessary for this. But this does not prevent the merger of the Bizkaia cardiology service from two hospitals that are less than four kilometres away from each other, without cutting a single service and without removing a single professional. And all this with a clear objective: that is to guarantee the best public health that we can guarantee Basque citizenship. I believe that this debate is a second part of a debate that we have already had, in which we all explained what our positions were and what we were basing ourselves on. I, you will allow me, today, to say again, I have here taken the documents of scientific societies. I would like those who put us in a contrary position to tell me which scientific society they are based on. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u90	Thank you, Mr. Rico. The eubertarian is the representative of the group. Mrs. Berrojalbuz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, chief physician. Ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. What are we discussing today? As we have agreed, the surgery squad from the Basurto Hospital to the Cross Hospital. We discussed this meeting six months ago and discussed a subject in March. It's a subject we've been studying in June, too, at the Medical Committee, and an initiative was accepted from this meeting. In March Parliament urged the Basque Government to give priority to improving the quality and efficiency of care in the transfer of the heart surgery team from Basurto to Cruces and, among other issues, to include evidence, professional opinions and scientific standards and recommendations for the implementation of the project. It is therefore an issue that we have discussed and that the Government has a clear mandate on the part of this Parliament. Therefore, on the subject and on the substance of the matter, we should not have anything new because it is a subject that has recently been discussed in March and, in committee, in June. But there seems to be some news. Now what has happened in these months in order to be able to pose this today by EH Bildu? First of all, that Osakidetza has continued with the project, which has never stopped, but has continued with the project, in addition to complying with the requirements of the agreement approved by the majority of this Parliament in March. Because I understand that this is what we want: to fulfil parliamentary mandates. Or not. Because it seems that today what Bildu seems to be demanding: that he leave on wet paper the proposals that by majority vote this House approves and that he attends to what you are demanding. Well, this Government complies with and implements parliamentary agreements. And we ask you, counselor, to continue to do so. And in this line, to see that the government has continued to do its... In carrying out his project, during these months of government he has continued to work with medical and optional directorates. Those conversations and dialogues that you are supposed to have never had, Mrs Ubera, because, look, you have continued to maintain and work with them, that of the two optionals of both hospitals, to carry out this reorganization. The patient referral protocol, surgical instrumentation, other specific material, the new work areas of the optionals at Cruces, the works have been tendered, the resolution for the transfers has been issued. So, there is something new. Yeah, there's news. We welcome them because projects are moving forward, and they are moving forward to improve the Basque public health service. And, being so, I don't see where the problem is, why today EH Bildu wants again to slow down, paralyse, slow down the project through this PNL, where it also seems to question the capacities of the Hospital de Cruces. Well, we don't understand. And, actually, I'm telling you we're surprised and I'd say we're disgusted. First, Mrs. Ubera, because the Cruces Hospital has the level, the capacity and the space to attend to cardiac surgery. Don't have any doubts. And the same is true of the pediatric oncology of Cruces, which you have also questioned, and the subject of midwives, which I also say to you in the first person who works perfectly. Second, because there was no problem, Mrs. Ubera. I mean, it doesn't create a problem or there was a problem before. I mean, the services work well, the two services work well. Of course they work. What's done is improved. That is the vision of this Government and of these two parliamentary groups, of EAJ and of the Socialist Party. Continuous improvement... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... what is done is improved. That is the vision of this Government and these two parliamentary groups, EAJ and Socialist Party. Continuous improvement, which is what is intended to be done with this project. And thirdly, because you know on the basis of what criteria these decisions have been taken, and it includes in that analysis of data that you are asking for today. And he'll explain it to me again. First. The Department of Health takes this decision forward for the better development of cardiac surgery in Euskadi. And I'll tell you what, because you've raised certain questions and said you don't know what's improving. For efficiency, in quality, in strong equipment, in relations with the centres of origin, in survival, in training and in professional development. And yes, also in training, because it increases the teaching capacity. So, they improve all these variables. It ultimately improves service and attention to users. That you don't know, you can't paralyze a project. Secondly, it is a project with the support of most of its professionals, and the cardiac surgeons of both centers are favorable, they continue to be favorable to the development of this project. Nor use the trade union appeal, justifying the disagreement, because the appeal is an appeal that does not deal with the merits of the case, does not question the merits of the case in the transfer. It is a matter, a procedural question. Then don't use that as an argument. Third. It is a decision that starts from an internal work with many working meetings. Therefore, please do not say that it is an untreaty or a shared decision, because you know perfectly well what the deal has been, and in the plenary we had here in March we already gave you a account of all the meetings and conversations and all the years we have been working on, and that the Government is working on this project - because you already know that it is not a project that is born this year 2022 -. And fourthly, because it is a decision based, as we said before and so we demand in our March parliamentary agreement, on recommendations from the scientific society, and on the results that are drawn from the data already available to the Government. Evidence and data already available to all parliamentary groups in this House. Because the government already sent it. I'm not going to show you the torch Mr. Rico taught you again. So you don't have enough? Or is it never enough for you, Mrs. Ubera? The results are here, the facts, the evidence, the reports. Here you go. The decision is founded on a solid basis and support, I think. I don't know if it's not enough for you. But it is also, as Mr. Rico told you, that you are always the first to request that Osakidetza's decisions be made on the basis of scientific evidence. They did so, as Mr Rico said in the Health Commission. Mrs Garrido also said that the first paragraph of her amendment referred to the recommendations of scientific societies for decision-making. Now that you have on the table a project that fulfills not only what (...) Parliament in March, what the government obviously believes, but what you also always claim. Now that's not enough. They request an external audit, because they are referred to the Society of State Cardiology. If the Basque Government already has the data, the internal data. And you've analyzed them to make this decision. The audit is done - what we would call an internal audit. The data exist, are analyzed, and are carried out day by day, and for this particular project as well. So, what I don't know is what purpose you are now asking for this audit. Because he does not know that the Government has already analysed it or because they do not want to know it, or because they want to paralyse Osakidetza's projects and use any new pseudo-arguments that suit them to insinuate that the decisions of the Government are not substantiated, dialogued or reflected. Well, I'm sorry to tell you, but the government isn't going blind. The decision considered and reasoned on the basis of the international recommendations of scientific societies, and on the basis of the data analysed and available to the Government. And if there has been uncertainty that it could have been, they have been clarified. Another thing is that they don't want to listen to them either and continue to sow doubt. I always say the same, and in this case more: when things are clear, the work well done and analysed, when the advantages of the transfer are obvious and only try to improve the quality of service; when the decision is taken on the basis of data analysis, we cannot paralyze projects - which is what you are trying to do today -. We have to move forward, move forward on improvement projects like this. If they had that vision, and they wanted to strengthen our health system with that vision of continuous improvement, they would support our amendment. And then we'd work hand in hand. I ask you now, Mrs. Ubera, is that too much to ask? Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u93	Mila esker, mahaiburu andrea. Good afternoon. Get out of the way. Good afternoon, Counselor. It's funny how political time spends. There are situations like this, that of the transfer of cardiac surgery service from one hospital to another that are resolved in half a year, in six months. Since January 2022 the Department of Health sent a statement and without explanation or reason for the closure of a surgery service in Basurto, and the centralization of it in Cruces. And while for some things we are very fast, for other laws, it seems that time has frozen and never just developed the decrees and orders that are needed. I was remembering the law of Libraries that was debated here at the end of June, or the OPE 2016-2017 of Osakidetza where there are still unmade lists. In these six months, the health personnel of the Hospital de Basurto have shown their disagreement with the transfer, and by active and passive attempt to transfer does not occur. But their requests and alternatives have fallen into a broken bag, and it must be stressed that they do have alternative proposals. They, the staff of Basurto, proposed to enhance both services, that of Cruces and that of Basurto, and thus help to improve the service in the two localities. And these two services gave more professionals, gave more interventions, and lowered waiting lists. The argument that the Basque Government has used to carry out this transfer is effectiveness. But so far the service... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... waiting lists. The argument that the Basque Government has used to carry out this transfer is effectiveness. But so far Basurto's surgery service was a leading service, recognized by both the medical community and the citizenry; and for me, this is an effective, very effective service. The argument has also been made that, in order to be effective, each surgeon must carry out at least 70 operations per year, but, with the same number of surgeons, the number of interventions that each surgeon will perform will be the same, whether in one or two locations, is a division. And in order to increase the number of interventions to be performed by each surgeon, what needs to be done is to cut into surgeons. And to that I do call it cut or increase operations, one of the two. Alongside these doubts, what is going to happen from now on are also great incognites: Can the Hospital de Cruces assume all the workload that the Hospital de Basurto had? With the structure that it currently has - that structure will have to be increased - are the Anesthesiologists of Cruces, of course, prepared to carry out the 300 more interventions per year that come upon them? And resuscitation, because here we talk about surgeons, but surgeons don't go alone; surgeons have many other specialties accompanying them. And those specialties are also going to move? Or are they going to have them from here to there, from one hospital to another depends on the time of day? Have the necessary material investments been made to increase this workload? Are there enough beds in the ICU or in resuscitation? Because I in the sum I made between the ones that were taken in Basurto and the ones that were put on Cruces I got a negative number. On this occasion, you have put the cart ahead of the oxen. They have made a political decision without having reached consensus with the parties concerned, believing that in life, as in Parliament, they also have an absolute majority, and the doctors of Basurto have come upon them. That is why, from my parliamentary group and because of the doubts generated by this transfer, we believe that these audits are necessary. More than ever. It is necessary to clarify the doubts that health personnel have been expressing over the course of these months and to see whether this unification is necessary or is only political will. For every time the Basque Government reorganizes, unifies, transfers or requests a change of culture, who ends up paying this cost is citizenship, with the closure of services, longer waiting lists or referrals to another health care. We must remember that health costs and cuts are always the most expensive. We believe, from our parliamentary group, that we are still in time to do a needs assessment and to make this unilateral decision a consensus decision. The country pacts to which this Government so much appeals, collaborative governance must also include citizens, workers and public service workers; and, above all, they must put the general interest on the table. In this case, he concludes in the citizenship and in the workers of Osakidetza. Let us not forget that the public health system in this country, Osakidetza, is the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u94	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Passing by the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u95	We seem to live in different realities. We don't share the decision of the Medical Department, but if we don't share it, we ask for a hearing, a exam. One thing is the scientific evidence, the investigations in the theoretical grade, and then the attention of those investigations with the data we have on the Basurton and the Cross. And that's what we're asking for. And if this auditory is done, why hasn't he just laid it on the table? Please, I'd appreciate it if you'd brought me this auditorium, because it's a decision how it's made, how it's been, how the arguments and the mechanical trassplant that you've been changing on − first, the volume is now auditoria, it's not very serious, it's not very serious, and it's obvious that there's no solid foundation or maybe we're bent. How has the decision been made, how have the arguments been communicated, the arguments given, the evolution of those arguments, so it is not very serious, is it? Or maybe we're very wrong, which could be. We do not know what the Government is referring to when it says it is to improve. Better what: the results of Cruces, the results of Basurto...? What is meant to improve: mortality, the complications that occur...? We don't know, there's no study. So, what's that comparison going to be made with? Por cyto, scientific associations, Mr. Rico, excellent, have, like exclente, an acreed farm at Basurto. There is no clear established scientific reason. There are notable differences between studies in different countries: for example, an Australian study does not find differences between small and large centers; in other studies, where there are differences, a large center is considered if it performs more than 150 interventions per year. By the way, Basurto performs around 275 interventions. And if the volume of surgeries is key, why is this criterion not used or not applied to child heart surgery in Cruces, when the volume is much lower than the 275 interventions, much lower? And if you want to do those 600-700 Cruces surgeries, how do you plan to do those child heart surgeries? How do you plan to do those congenital surgeries? How are they going to get to the volume that is being made today or improve that volume? They'll explain it to us. More inconsistencies within the health system itself. Why will the only public center in Basque Herria, Osakidetza, 600-700 surgeries per year be required, and the private center in Donosti will not be required, when Osakidetza patients are to be referred to the private... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... a year, and the private center in Donosti is not going to be required, when they are going to turn the patients from Osakidetza to the private? Two measuring rods? Are there going to be first-rate patients and second-rate patients? Does the public health system want to be strengthened? Do you want to strengthen the private? What's the model you're promoting? What's the model? Then, on the other hand, economic expense. You're telling us that he makes an incredible investment in public health keeping his quality. The only thing you do is put him in the trash. And that's where we see the lack of planning. Deficiency of planning. Five years ago, 15 million euros to strengthen the Basurto. Now, to the trash. And we make other works. The lack of a para la CA, no hay Indi vision. Access to the patients, what will the entrance be? Riesgo para los pacentes, aureento de las listas de experimenta. 'Cuál es el model?' And what we'll have is at last the only place in the public health system of the Osarean is the only one. That only facility will be requested for 600-700 interference. In the meantime, we're going to drive private from the public and ask them for $600 and 700 interference? Is that the quality? Is that the basis? What's in it to evaluate? There's no support here, maybe there's another strategy we don't know. And the most important thing here should be patients. They should be patients. And this isn't a hospital contest, but it's a strategy that we need to watch for all EAE on our way to Osade. And the decisions to be taken in this strategy from the data. And at the moment we don't know the data of the Basurto, the data of the Cross, and we don't know because you're trying to improve in the data or why this decision has been made. For it might have been decided to bring out of the Cross of the boars, because it is an acre as an excelite residence, but it has not been done. And this will affect form, enquiry, etc. And it will affect the congenital surgery on cross-roads. So we apply here whether scientific evidence interests or not, don't we? We have to be serious. And scientific evidence must always be spoken of as a warning to the reality that has been published. And there's really something in it (? .).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u97	Thank you, Mrs. President. As Mr Rico was telling us if we rejected the merger, for we certainly do, because we do not understand it justified according to reasonable criteria. As much as you have made recommendations from scientific societies. Look, it draws my attention because I don't think there's an agreement on the figures. I have here the counselor's answer to the inquiry, and she was talking about the fact that between the two hospitals they perform more than 700 surgeries a year, with figures that vary each year, but that they are between 400 and 500 in Cruces and 200-300 in Basurto. I mean, we're not talking about 600. Looks like they're more, looks like they're more. But I also tell you look, five years ago an investment of 17 million euros was made, why was that investment made? How was that investment justified? Because it was understood that it was a hospital that needed to be improved and in relation to investments to provide adequate quality in the future, also in the cardiac surgery service. Undoubtedly in the cardiac surgery department. Or on the basis of what was that decision to invest EUR 17 million five years ago? What was 17 million euros thrown away? It's just that this has to be explained to Basque citizens, because it would be very serious. We also assume, if we stay there are less than 600, but if they are increasing this type of intervention by the Basque population that demands this type of intervention and by the aging of the Basque population itself. I mean, we're not gonna miss it, we're gonna miss it. And I'm telling you, the figures were 700 that were said here, in that answer. So, we do understand... Mrs Berrojalbiz has pointed out that there is an internal audit. Of course, there's an internal audit, there's an internal justification and that's it. That is why we have asked for an external audit, because it seems to us that between the criteria of the department and Osakidetza, of the management of the Department of Health in making this decision to merge the two services, which do not agree with the professionals of both centers, which in addition, has generated a major controversy, it is not enough the reports or the justifications that the Basque Department has found within the Basque Department itself to justify this decision. That is why we - unlike EH Bildu - are asking for an external audit, given the controversy that exists. But I will end by telling you if it was necessary to merge these two services because it is not the minimum recommended, that I tell you that there is a disparity in the dates in the figures, why has this merger not been made before? Why is it done now and after an investment of 17 million euros? It's just that it's absolutely contradictory. It seems that decisions are being made because I do not know what and that they are absolutely unjustified and, rather, it sounds like another kind of justification. But I do not think that behind this decision is a technical scientific justification, however much you are appealing today to reports from scientific societies. Because if scientific society reports are being appealed this decision, they would of course have made it earlier, and of course they would have made it before investing 17 million in this hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u98	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ...in this hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u99	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u100	Thank you, President. Mrs. Ubera said that we seem to be living different realities. And no, we don't live in different realities, what happens is that there are those who strive to see differently and, above all, to show that reality is different. And that has to be very expensive, actually. Starting at the last. It's just that I... My capacity for astonishment in this Parliament is being wonderful, and the good thing is that one starts a new session and continues to be amazed. And it's really positive. I want to take it as something positive, because, well. But it is also true that in some cases it attracts much attention. Because I understand that it's up to us all from time to time to get out here to do an exercise of me to sell this; but trying to move a number of issues like those that have moved us here, without any scientific basis, seems amazing to me. I have asked you to give me a single reference to a single scientific society. None. I heard a study from Australia. I don't know what kind of studio... No, no, an Australian study. And I have to believe it? I told you to page 33 of the report where you can pick it up, I gave you the names, I gave them in March, in March 2021. Can I have them? No, they can't beat me, because even in June, when the members of the service appeared, I asked them that question. And they recognized that the reports say that. Well, you've gone further and denied that that's scientific evidence. No, they didn't even deny it. Well, you do, because you don't care, you don't care. There's bronchi in Bilbao on this subject, there's a municipal election nearby, because we're gonna throw it around here. Even if this goes against what the PP ministries collected in writing in their recommendations and even if we have the data we say we don't have. What's wrong with EH Bildu? Of course, I've been hallucinated by the Australian center; I really have to tell you. I don't think it's very serious coming here that there's a studio in Australia. Okay, so please tell me what I'm studying and we value it. As it seems to me very little serious to say "there is disparity in numbers because the counselor spoke of 700". No, it is not that the studies say minimum 600; minimum. And I said that in my previous speech, it is there, in the sitting paper, that European standards are well above those 600, Mrs Garrido. No, no, there's no disparity, there's no disparity, there's no disparity. Of course, it also seems to me very serious - and I have to say - that on the part of EH Bildu this is posing as a competition between hospitals. Up to this point EH Bildu has lost his hand in this, that if one reads his initiative he sees how in the last sentence of the third paragraph he says "today we still do not know the results of the cardiac surgery of Cruces"; not of Basurto. EH Bildu with this initiative is also questioning the prestige of the Hospital de Cruces; it is good that the Service of Cardiology of Basurto is excellent – I have faith, it is excellent – but it doubts that the Hospital de Cruces is. And I, Mrs. Ubera, can't afford that. No, no, Because we are for the defense of the public, but as you have done today, the public is not defended. As you have done today, the public is not defended. And we also say one thing and the other. They have to make synergies, it doesn't have to be competing. It doesn't have to be competing, if what we're doing is just working on the net. And you're opposed. Well, but I have already said it on more than one occasion and I say it again, I believe that today EH Bildu in any matter of health would oppose, would oppose even launching the electronic recipe. I told him in June, it's that today they'd oppose, they'd say they're cuts. Comrade Gustavo de Podemos I have to tell him if there is a single personal cut I go with you to the demonstration and I bring the initiative here. I bring the initiative here, of course; if there is only one staff cut. Because one of the department's commitments is that, precisely, there's not going to be a single staff cut. And in that sense, this is what we are talking about, because scientific societies are asking for it; none of those who are opposed today have been able to give a single data or a single scientific society that endorses their position and because this is going to reverse in greater security and lower mortality of citizens who have to make use of major heart surgery. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u101	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Membership will manage its resources. I don't know what you've been up to with the private man, but the member will manage his resources, and he's doing the best he can. In this case, I'm sorry, Mrs. Ubera, but in this case too. And in this case, evidence has brought them forward to carry this project. That − will be well served as it has been before, but because it is a project intended for improvement. It's evidence and it's a project that's been moved forward by data. I don't know, I haven't seen any data yet, no evidence. As Mr. Rico said, you've brought in a report from Australia, but based on data and evidence, it's a project that the government and we've got on it, and it's a project that we're protecting. As I said, it improves in quality, with evidence and scientific support, contrasts with equipment, improves on the waiting list and with the available data. That I don't know if it's an analysis, an audit, I don't know what you want to call it, but it's data analysis what Osakidetza does day by day, with the results and the evidence that... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... and with the available data. That I don't know if it's an analysis, an audit, I don't know what you want to call it, but it's data analysis what Osakidetza does day by day, with the results and evidence they have internally. I am curious that Mrs Garrido tells me that this analysis, this internal audit does not work, analysis carried out by the professionals and professionals of Osakidetza. It certainly seems to me serious that you do not trust the analyses and the results of the data studied and analyzed by the professionals and professionals of Osakidetza, and want, to make excuses or use arguments to paralyze this project, an analysis of an external society. Eta, datuei dagokienez, ez dakit, Ubera andreari galdetuko diot berriz ere, to see if you would change your mind about this project, make that additional analysis that you ask. We already came here in March, and used any arguments to stop the project. We have already given him our arguments, the Government has sent him its evidence, its arguments, the data, a document that we have taught him in the first intervention, and so everything continues to block the project. So, do you think you would improve or change your position or position if Osakidetza did an analysis, or that external audit that you call you, when you have data, data from the two hospitals, when they are analyzed, when they are contrasted, and when, moreover, you support all that decision, that fit of the data, with scientific evidence? I don't know if you'd really change your mind, Mrs. Ubera. And then, about... Well, one question to Mr. Angulo, which is that I'm not going to answer your questions, because I think it's a question of ignorance. That is to say, an issue which you have not studied in detail - I am sorry to tell you, Mr Angulo - because you have raised here doubts and questions which we have answered today, which we answered in the March plenary and which are answered in the 300 or 400 pages sent by the Government. Therefore, it seems to me today to raise those questions, when they are clearly answered... We're not gonna waste any more time. And then, for the record, at Basurto Hospital and the mistake that makes with the investments. I believe that this project also bets on the Hospital de Basurto. We said this in our parliamentary agreement, which was adopted in March, and today we also ratify it again. Basurto has its own functional plan, is analyzed and reflected by the teams. In addition, not only did all the cardiology services that already existed continue to be offered, but it is also going to enhance its endowment and activity in Interventional Cardiology. That is, this project not only means improving the services of cardiac surgery, which is already being offered with good quality, but it has that vision of improvements in which, in addition, Basurto continues to have his own future project. And for all this, and for all that we have detailed, and for all the information we have available to all the political groups, EH Bildu today, as the driving force behind this initiative, and to which the People's Party and Podemos are also joining today, amazes me - I said earlier in my first speech that I dislike - that for all these arguments and evidences and data they intend to stop a project like this, and the only thing that can mean is that more than moving forward is still to stop projects. That they feel more comfortable in the front row of the demonstration than in the work for construction and improvement, and that the project of fusion of Cardiac Surgery of Basurto has become the spearhead of a more global claim, of struggle against an alleged dismantling of the Hospital of Basurto and Osakidetza as a whole, to which, by the way, I will not stop to give data that would, obviously, dismantle its argumentary, because we have already done it on numerous occasions and also did it the lehendakari recently. Therefore, today we see two ways of doing and understanding politics, Mrs Ubera. You said we have two realities today. Indeed, the policy for the benefit of people, for the advancement and for the greater well-being, on that side we will be, this is our model, or the policy dispenses with the general interest and remains in particular, which you are doing today. I ask you to change course because we have many challenges ahead, very important challenges that we will better overcome if we go together and together. Put the long lights, and let us agree on the great challenges and the great pillars and challenges that we have in our country, because we need it. And our Basque health service needs it too. Instead, as I said before, our hand stretched out, mano tendida. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Together Podemos-Toy won't speak. [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 70; the votes given, 71; the rivals, 26; the contrary, 39; abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u104	Not accepted. We'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; the contrary, 28; the contrary, 38. Abstentions, 5; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u105	Not accepted. And finally, Euscal... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; the contrary, 28; the contrary, 38. Abstentions, 5; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u106	Not accepted. And in the end, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the eucalypologists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; supporters of the league, 38; the opponents, 33; abstations, 0; white; 0.1,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-09-29.u107	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two-and-thirty.
