ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To discuss these other proposals of law together, and to take up the final resolution: In order to discuss the rapid process, to collect E.H., and together with the other proposal made by the parliamentary Society of Podemos, by the same way, by the same way, by way of peace; In order to discuss the rapid procedure, the same proposal as the parliamentary team of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans, the one-sided proposal of President Sánchez on the 14th of March 2022, was made by the Basque parliamentary Act of the United States about the state of the Western Sahara." The next round of the proposed team is Mr Martínz who represents the Podemos-Nozzer of the Animal Party together has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u1	Egun on. Mr Mohamed Liman Ali Ami, delegate of the Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic in the Basque Country, egun on, ongi etorri. And ongi etorri ere bai to the rest of the representatives of the Saharan people present today at this plenary meeting. Egun where you're going. Today, we have to discuss... we forced ourselves to introduce this enterprise. Pedro Sánchez, acting ill on the President of Spain has made us do this initiative. Pedro Sánchez from behind his own government, from behind Congress, decided in a totally unilateral way to change a historical position of the Spanish State in considering the Moroccan proposal. (?) He spoke of Saharawi autonomy within the territory of the Kingdom of Morocco as the proposal, and I read textual, "more serious, realistic and credible", in which in that letter that Pedro Sánchez sent to the king of Morocco last 14 March. This position, which I recall again, is unique and exclusive to the President of the Spanish Government and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, as demonstrated in the Plenary Session of the Congress, and where it will also be demonstrated today; that is, the House of Representatives of the State as a whole, and also today this Parliament, will reject that unilateral proposal of the President of the Government. A 180-degree turn, a irresponsibility and a violation of international law for several reasons: first, because the Spanish State remains the administering power of (?), of Western Sahara, both by international law, by the United Nations, and also by judgement of the National High Court, by the present Minister of the Interior of the Government. And, by the way, Morocco remains, in fact, unfortunately, the occupying power. Secondly, because United Nations resolutions establish the referendum on self-determination as the inalienable right of the Saharan people. And for that the (?) was also created. in 1991, to organize a referendum that is taking too long. A creation agreed by the two parties to the conflict, which must logically be respected. Thirdly, because war and military confrontation have returned after the Moroccan attack in Guerguerat on 13 November 2020, and to stand on the side of the occupying power does not seem the best contribution to peace. Fourthly, because the last judgments of the General Court of the European Union of 29 September 2021 clearly and solemnly annul the agreements between the European Union and Morocco, confirming once again the fact that Morocco and Western Sahara are two different and separate territories, and that no agreement affecting the Saharawi territory may disregard the criterion and must have the consent of the people and their only representative, who is the Frente Polisario. Also, fifth, because the African Union recognizes RASD as a member state... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ...of the people and their only representative, who is the Frente Polisario. Also, fifth, because the African Union recognizes RASD as a member state and supports the resolution of the referendum and previous agreements. Because, moreover, trying to please Morocco with this decision or with this letter and the return of its ambassador to Madrid has managed, in a clear exercise of diplomatic pyrotechnics, to call Algeria to consult its ambassador to Algiers, opening an unprecedented crisis with Algeria, I remember, the main gas supplier of the Spanish State. And that he has also stated in a recent interview his president this weekend that his ambassador will not return until he solves this issue. Because it places, on behalf of the President of the Government, the entire State on an irresponsible path to continue another diplomatic pyrotechnic, which was the recognition of Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara by President Trump, by the French President and by the State of Israel, another occupier in this case of Palestine, the best ally at this time of the Alawite regime. Because we cannot grant Morocco, in such a shoddy way, the right of veto over our foreign policy. With Morocco and the Maghreb as a whole, and with the Sahel region, dialogue is needed and a neighbourhood policy must be negotiated that ensures sustainable development, the management of natural resources for the benefit of peoples and the planet, respect for human rights, safe migratory movements, the fight against terrorism, etc. That is why it is irresponsible to grant the European Union's foreign policy right to an authoritarian regime such as Morocco. A regime which, in addition to harshly repressing the Saharan people in the occupied territories and being at war with the Sahara at the moment, also treats the Moroccan democratic opposition and, for example, the Rifan people in a healthy and harsh manner, as we have also denounced on many occasions in this Parliament. Today, therefore, from this Parliament, we express our unconditional support for the cause of the Saharan people and for the Frente Polisario in their struggle for national liberation, convinced, as I said now, that stability in North Africa cannot be achieved by mocking international legality, by eliminating a people that has fought courageously, tenaciously, for too many decades, for its liberation and that the right of force cannot be given precedence over the force of law. Today, it was important to give a strong answer to this situation from the Basque parliament and reject the personal decision of Pedro Sánchez. We ask the Spanish Government to encourage and protect in an active manner the political solution to the organization of the United Nations, the European Union, and the other international organizations according to the solutions of the international right and the organization of the United Nations. The State of Spain has a right responsibility for the political conflict in the Western Sahara, and that is why it's very important to protect the efforts of the personal representative of Staffan de Sahaera from Europe. And the new letter and attitude opposes MINURSO to the head of Mistur. We believe that in this enterprise and the several solutions of the United Nations, it is necessary to give or to give a solution to the conflict of the Western Sahara, the right of self-determination of the people. And again, we say, the new attitude of Pedro Sánchez is against it. The Spanish State, by history and also by being the administering power of the Iure of Western Sahara, has to play an active, pro-diplomatic role, based on international law and international law and also on active mediation. And, let's say again, this decision is to stand aside. That is why today, in the name of responsibility, of law, but also of the majority of investiture, we insist on the Socialist Party that it is necessary to return to the previous situation in this area. Surely those who defend this step taken by President Sánchez will tell us that what you are going to do, that so many years later something had to be done, that Morocco can have a lot of weight, that it has a lot of strength, etc., etc. And I raise a question: Would it be possible to tell the Ukrainian people the same thing? It's not that the Russian army is very strong and we can't do anything against them. No, no, The Ukrainian people are being supported. And let's be serious. If we are against the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we should unanimously be against the Moroccan occupation of the Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic. And also, let us not forget, the Israeli occupation of Palestine. Together, Podemos-I, we have a clear idea that we'll always be with victims, with victims, with international rights. And, yes, if we have to manage contradictories, we can manage them; but it is not possible to act on basic things as it has been done with this subject. I would like to finish the speech of this day, to prolong our entire surrender to the people of Sheba, to their government, to all their institutions, to their wives, and to all the saharauis who live among us. We would like to end with a recognition of the Saharan people, the Saharan Government, their institutions, the Saharan women and also all the Saharan Basques who live with us and ourselves. And also to all social organizations. And also to the Basque institutions, to this very Parliament, which we have an unwavering commitment to the RCDs and the Saharan people. To all Basque families who have welcomed Saharan girls and boys for so many decades for such a peaceful holiday. Today, in the Basque Act, we confirm the commitment to the sahara of the Basque Society and to its freedom. Sahara water.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u2	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. [[Applause]] The representative of the EH Collect Group has the word to present his initiative. Mr. Estarrona, your word is... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... Sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u3	Sahara RASD, Sahra's diaspo, fellow fellow fellow union, legitimate representative of Fronte Polisarius, a warm greeting. You know that you are always welcome to this chamber which represents Araba, Bizia, and the political will of Gipuar. And today we'd like to send a special hug to the feminist and defender of the land of Sultana Khayas. We know that you feel betrayed, that you feel pain and anger at this moment, because your pain and anger are also ours. And that's why we wanted to have this parliamentary discussion with you together today. And in this respect, thanks to the presidency, for enabling invitations. It is a matter of discussion, as it may be said, of three weeks ago, that a large majority of the legislatures, owing to the change in the government of Spain, understood that the political position of this chamber was a Urgent, but some of them thought it unnecessary to discuss the subject by Urgence. In particular, we needed this discussion on April 7, the same day Pedro Sánchez Mohamed VI. But why did President Sánchez go to Rabat? There are, indeed, a few who will know the real reason, for most of all there has been a terrible lack of information and transparency about it. About this radical and unilateral change of Sánchez's government with regard to the Sahara conflict, above all, what has happened is lack of information, obscurantism and lack of transparency. Why has the position on Sahara changed unilaterally, aligning itself in this way with the Moroccan regime? In exchange for what? What is so important to betray the commitment, longing and confidence of the Saharan people? How does this proposal help the Saharawis? Why have socialists abandoned, abandoned what is a social consensus, what is a majority political consensus as few, which involves supporting United Nations resolutions for a just, lasting and democratic solution based on the self-determination of Western Sahara, of the right of self-determination? Why? What's behind it? Let us focus briefly on this concept as full of content as is the right of self-determination, that word that some use depending on how they rise, or, rather, how and who lifts it. Ez dago, ez da existen self-determination skubidea bath kontzeptu demokratikoagorik, herritarren part-hartzea eta ahalduntzea ardaz hartuta, norberak beharrei weretzuteko komunitatean nola antolatzen den erabakitzeaz ari garelako, balore demokratiko eta baketsuetan oinarrituta. Eta Mendebaldeko Sahararen self-determinaziorako eskubidea da, zehazki, Alderdi Sozialistak urratu duena drink autonomy proposed Amenarekin. Eta, urraketa horrekin, Nazio Batuen Erakundeko 74 ebazpenen kontra egin du. Not one more, not one less. 74 are the resolutions of the United Nations that have jumped with the radical and unilateral turn that, by unmistakably betting on the Moroccan autonomy plan of 2007, implies fully aligning itself with the aspirations of the Kingdom of Morocco to consider the territory of Western Sahara as its own. And if they thought that the war in Ukraine would hide such treason, they were wrong. He got the wrong guy. It's wrong, in our opinion, it's wrong, not just that. We believe that the social president who has passed on March 14th was more than a fault in the Spanish state change expressed in one-sided terms by Mohammed VI, and was treason, injustice, injustice against the people of Saharar. But besides that, political and diplomatic slipper. And thus it has been pointed out and accused in various instances and institutions. For instance, Sánchez himself went to Rabat on the day before, on April 6th, the Congress of the Spanish States has been named −, EH collect, ERC, and other proposal made by Unidas Podemos. A resolution was adopted the day before Sánchez's visit to Rabat to King Mohamed VI, a resolution was adopted in the Congress of Deputies, ratifying the commitment for a negotiated solution within the framework of the United Nations, and which strongly rejects the decision taken behind the backs of Parliament, and on the part of that Spanish government. A proposal that only counted on the rejection of the socialists; only on the rejection of the socialists. And today, the Basque Socialists have an opportunity to help amend that mistake, that mistake that their comrades in Madrid have made in support of the unilateral change of position of the government. Well, it's fair to admit, it's fair to acknowledge – and so we do – that not everyone made that mistake: a Basque socialist stood out from betrayal in that same vote. Follow his example and that of Eibar's companions: today they can amend that error by supporting the joint initiative that we have presented PNV, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, to whom I want to thank all the consensus and all the margin of agreement that we have had on this issue. It is a very clear initiative, consisting of six points: rejection of the proposal for autonomy; direct responsibility of the Spanish State; support for the mediation of Staffan de Mistura; compliance with the United Nations resolutions of international law based on the right to self-determination of the Saharawi people; recognition of the Saharawi Democratic Arab Republic; and, lastly, the political solution as an element for the stability and prosperity of the region and the Maghreb countries. And today, this initiative will be accepted with a large majority, which is what we should put into value and what I would like to put into value. because there is no such protection in the whole State as the people of Sahaa, because there is no such thing as − Legislature throughout the United States. There is no legislature in the whole state with more than 80% consent from Sánchez... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... there is no legislature in the whole state with more than 80% consent that Sánchez will reject his decision of one-sidedness. And this is not a coincidence, it's not a coincidence. For the commitment to Saah in the Basque Country has been historically complete. A commitment, an ethical commitment, a commitment to human rights, a commitment to the struggle for the people of Saharar. The arrangement must be given to Sahara's case for many years, and the suggestion of autonomy is not to be made because it is not possible to solve it, either because it is not realistic. There's no other solution to Sahar's autodetermination referendum. Every proposition that doesn't go through there is to sell Sahara and his people. There are no phosphatos in the world, fishing banks, even oils, gas or minerals, and no other police interests justify the systematic subpoena of human rights. Since the beginning of the conflict, 47 years old, Socialists have not thought about the Saharese and their rights. And suffering is growing too long. And instead of ending this, the Social Party, PSOE, wants to sell the Sahara this time. The PSOE, we do not know at what price, intends to sell the Sahara, as it did corrupt emeritus in 1975 with the support of dictator Francisco Franco himself. That corrupt emeritus who now enjoys family visits to his Abu Dhabi chalet. That corrupt emeritus that sold Western Sahara to Morocco in exchange for United States support and maintaining the territorial integrity of Ceuta and Melilla. In fact, the current situation and that of the last 46 years are a consequence of that; therefore, it is the direct fault and responsibility of the Spanish State. And this is to be put an end to this injustice, and the representatives of the political will of the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, shall today send a clear and firm message to the President of the Spanish State of PSOE: Against the treason committed in Sahara, against the totalitarian regime of Morocco, and for the right of self-determination in favor of the democracy. That's what we're going to do today for Sahara.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u4	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. The eubertarian is the representative of the group, Mrs. Ipiñazar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u5	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Lehendakari, Sailburu, legebiltzarkideok, and so on. This is particularly true of all the guests who are accompanying us today in this debate, which is so important and so special for everyone and everyone. Today, the other proposal which we discuss in this legislature, as has been said, the President of Spain on the 14th of March 2022, has the foundation of a letter addressed to the King of Morocco to the 6th of Mohammed. It is true that we have often protected the several enterprises in favor of the protection of the Saxon people, not only from this tribe, but also through the medium. But we may say that the other proposition, as we have today, has another quality, or another dependence, especially as I have said − is based on that letter. I begin, as always, from the beginning, from the first point of our initiative, to say loud and clear that we reject the support that the President of the Spanish Government has shown the Moroccan king with regard to the autonomy of Western Sahara. From our group, Euzko Abertzaleak-Vascos Nationalists, we reject the change of position of the central government on the Sahara. And it is that according to that famous letter - which I am not going to enter into the way in which we have known the content, because it is difficult - the proposal of the Spanish Government is the Moroccan autonomy proposal presented in 2007, indicating that it is the most serious, credible and realistic for the resolution of this dispute; it literally reflects it in the letter. And what is this proposal? Let us not forget that it came hand in hand from Morocco, in a totally unilateral manner. Basically the points on which the autonomy of Western Sahara would be based would be focused on the administrative, economic, fiscal, infrastructure, exploitation of cultural and environmental resources. In the meantime, the Moroccan State would have exclusive jurisdiction in matters of sovereignty such as the flag or national currency, religious, constitutional issues relating to the figure of the king, national security, defence, territorial integrity, foreign relations and judicial power of the kingdom, exclusive jurisdiction of the Moroccan State. Do you really think this is the way we should go? Is it really considered that this totally unilateral proposal is the right one for the freedom of the Saharan people? We and we from our group, and also the groups that have signed this initiative, have a clear answer: no, it is not the way; neither the Spanish Government nor Morocco must decide on the future of the Saharawi people. It is they and they, the Saharan people, who must decide freely about their people and their future. This is precisely what UN Resolution 2602 says, since the UN in this resolution advocates a solution that provides for the self-determination of Western Sahara; not the autonomy that Morocco wants to bring to the Saharawi people. After 46 years of impositions, invasions, human rights violations, rapes of women and girls - a strong embrace, by the way, of Sultan Jaya. Chantajes on the part of Morocco, not only to the Saharan people, but also to the Spanish State. And they will still pretend to accept your proposal for autonomy or nothing. From the Basque Nationalist Party we believe that the way should be a free-trade negotiation process... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... Your proposal for autonomy or nothing. From the Basque Nationalist Party we believe that the way should be a negotiating process based on the free choice of the Saharan people. That is why, in the second point of our initiative too, as Mr Estarrona has said, we call for the resumption of the political process of negotiation between the parties. We have said that in the Congress of Deputies, in the Senate, even in Europe. And we repeat it again in our Parliament: Saharar Herriak aukeratu behar du zein izango den bere etorkizuna. Eta hori, Saharar Herriaren self-determination eskubidetik passatzen da. Euskadi free beat amesten dugunok, Sahara free beat amesten dugulako. And in the meantime we will continue to support, as this society and its institutions have always done, the Saharans living in Western Sahara and the Tindouf camps. Political support to achieve self-determination; and humanitarian support to improve their living conditions. They live in an extreme situation, and they survive thanks to the humanitarian aid we provide from abroad. That is why it is important that we all keep alive our values of solidarity and social justice. Because it is this solidarity that will improve their way of life. It's been a long time since there's been a fight of peace and resistance. Always to be in cascade (... ), and we shall continue this way. To reveal the state of your people, to answer immediate wants, and in all the undertakings which enable us to seek a solution by combat, you will have our support. Sahara (... .).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. The Basque Group is represented by the popular-Ciudados. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u7	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, councillors, councillors. First, to greet the representative of the Saharawi people who are accompanying us today in this session. They have always been able to find affection in this Parliament, they have always been able to find support, welcome. Those who have visited us so many times, and so many times have invited us to their homes and their jaimas, in the occupied territories or in the refugee camps. So many hours, so many teas. So many conversations out there in the desert. Thank you very much for your presence, and may God bless you. Well, it's a lot of work and meeting hours. The hours here and the hours in the desert. There are many encounters with Saharan families in refugee camps or in the occupied Sahara. Also the meeting with authorities, with Saharan representatives; and with human rights defenders in Western Sahara. They mentioned the Sultan, and his example. There are many encounters with victims of the Moroccan occupation. There are many statements and communiqués from this Parliament, from the Commission on Human Rights, and from the Parliamentary Intergroup "Peace and Freedom for the Saharawi People". There are many Intergroup conferences. The Eukocos, which are the international conferences in support of the Saharawi people. And the other conventions that have been held in different parts of Spain, Europe and Africa. There are also several complicated moments when the Moroccan occupying authority has not let parliamentary delegations into Aaiún. Some of us here know that, and some of us before that. They are appointments and meetings in which we have participated many of us, and many of those who today do not sit in these seats. Of all the parliamentary groups, and with a common and constant denominator: support for the cause of the Saharan people, and their freedom. As simple as that. And all that we want to remember today, without having to take any step back in this Parliament, no step back in this Parliament. No step back. And if the Basque Parliament has had some role in supporting the Saharan cause, it has been Basque society that has best expressed solidarity and affection for that people, with whom Spain still has a outstanding debt for 47 years. Most of our peoples, cities, territories, have twinned with (...) Saharans. The programmes for the reception of "Holidays in Peace" have always welcomed, and have resulted in thousands of Basque families having closer ties of affection with Saharan families. The caravans of solidarity, the development aid programmes we know well; they have expressed that solidarity and that work of exemplary Basque associations of friendship with the Sahara, non-governmental organizations operating in our land, which also operate in the Sahara. And people, and hundreds and thousands of anonymous people devoted to that work of solidarity and cooperation and affection for so many years. Nor can we fail those people, those families, those collectives who have worked for freedom, for the right of that people to decide their future in accordance with international law, in accordance with international law, in accordance with United Nations resolutions. Therefore, neither legal nor political nor diplomatically, President Sánchez's unilateral initiative regarding the acceptance of the Moroccan proposal for Western Sahara is understandable. Neither the President's parliamentary appearance on the subject, nor the press release from the Rabat meeting, have defined the keys to the agreement. The letter to Morocco announces a personal position that can never be considered as a position of the Kingdom of Spain, not even of the Government of Spain, however much its prime minister subscribes to it. And let us not say, with the opposition, or with the United Nations, or with strategic allies such as Algeria, or with the Saharawi people themselves, the Frente Polisario. For this reason, there are a number of considerations that show that Sánchez's attitude means an incomprehensible unilateral position, which cannot be described as a new and unexpected source of problems for Spain... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... unilateral position, which cannot be described as a new and unexpected source of problems for Spain. First. Spain has a outstanding debt to Western Sahara. The Government of Franco organized an illegal surrender of the Sahara, a colony of Spain, in the Madrid Tripartite Agreement in 1975 to Morocco and Mauritania. This delivery caused a war and was never recognized as valid by the United Nations. The deal, the flag deal backwards, is the next step, 47 years after a great injustice. Second. The United Nations adopted in 1990 and 91, through its resolutions, a settlement plan that established as a basic element for the decolonization of the Territory a referendum on self-determination, and for this purpose created the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara, which is still in the area and which is so annoying to the Government of Rabat. We've been able to verify that. Third. Sánchez's support for Morocco is based on a false premise that Morocco holds the sovereignty of the ex-colonia, and therefore gives value to the unilateral Moroccan proposal of 2007 that proposes autonomy. It ignores the fact that Western Sahara is currently a non-self-governing territory awaiting decolonization. The UN rejected the 2007 Moroccan proposal as unfeasible. That is, if there is no sovereignty over Western Sahara, there can be no granting of autonomy. Fourth. Without an option to independence, therefore, there is no self-determination. That is why Sánchez's initiative dispels alone, without the support of the Government or Congress, the resolutions of the United Nations and of international law. The option of autonomy defended by Morocco would be a step after the decision of the Saharans to settle in the referendum to integrate into the later, never previous, Alawite kingdom. Fifth. Western Sahara today is a Non-Self-Governing Territory, which was proclaimed a Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic on 14 November 1975. And it's been recognized by more than 80 states around the world. Sixth. RASD is a founding member of the African Union, the AU. A continental organization similar to the European Union, which in 2001 replaced the dissolved Organization for African Unity, the well-known OAU. Morocco did not join the AU, the African Union, until 2017. Algeria and South Africa in the African Union, together with other African countries, Algeria and South Africa are the great supporters of the Saharans at the international concert. They're well-recognized. The African Union is an observer member of the United Nations. The Saharans are founding members of the African Union. Not Morocco. Important. Seventh. The sixth Summit of Heads of State and Government of the European Union and the African Union was held in Brussels on 17 and 18 December 2022. The representation of the Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic with Brahim Gali, its president, at the head participated as a full member at that summit. At no point in the summit was there any talk of the illegitimacy of the Saharawi presence or of any autonomy plan in the area. The scrupulous respect for United Nations resolutions marked the positions of the states; not even President Sánchez, let alone his foreign minister, dared to say anything at that meeting, at that summit at the highest level between the African Union and the European Union. Eighth. The judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the exploitation of resources in Western Sahara have been very clear. Trade and economic agreements between the European Union and Morocco cannot be expected to affect the resources of Western Sahara. The European Union, through its Court, has made it clear that Western Sahara is a non-self-governing territory, and that only the expression of the will of the Saharans can validate the agreements that the European Union makes in the area, but not through relations with the Alawite kingdom, which has no sovereignty over that territory. We're talking about a robbery and a looting. That is, these issues are clear and have been resolved by the Court of the European Union. Ninth. Sánchez cannot deny what is due to Western Sahara. The consequences of incomplete and illegal decolonization, Sánchez's maneuver cannot put an end to that historic bond; it would be to increase debt, especially to satisfy a country that oppresses with its migratory waves, with drugs, with insecurity at our borders, with the jihadist threat and with its diplomatic patalets that so bitterly bitter our foreign ministers. Tenth. Alongside Algeria - I am now the president - together with Algeria, the Frente Polisario is the main actor whom Sánchez has also marginalized and betrayed. There is always talk that the resolution process requires a just, lasting and acceptable political solution for all parties. And this Sanchez has blown him up with his missive to King Mohamed VI. The Frente Polisario is the legitimate representation of the Saharan people, and the Spanish president cannot ignore this internationally recognized reality. Finally, President Sánchez's initiative runs counter to the value of peace, security and respect in the territories. And that's what I told you the other day too, I reminded the lehendakari to pass it on to President Sanchez as well. As that decision bets on an unbearable solution for territories that have been invaded militarily and illegally occupied, as Felipe Briones, president of the International Association of Jurists for Western Sahara, rightly said. We are presenting a non-legislative proposal that builds up in this debate. We understood that the two could be voted on. The president understands that she doesn't. We ask you to reflect, that our non-legislative proposal is important, collects and reaffirms the institutional declarations made by different parliamentary bodies. There they are, more than 25 throughout the history of this Parliament. And our commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u8	Finish it, please, because it's time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u9	Thank you very much. And again, thank you very much to the people of Saharaui.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u10	Thank you. Passing over the teams that don't run, the socialist Basques, Mr Pricee, the word is yours... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u11	President, ladies and gentlemen. Greetings to the Saharan delegation. I see they have a lot of interest in talking about Pedro Sánchez; they have repeatedly quoted him. I too, because it is always upbuilding to speak of a great president, with such an accused social profile and with such capacity to make politics work, for the government to function, for this to be done without a majority, for the permanent obstruction of the extreme right to be overcome, for dialogue and agreement to be made on the basis of the fragmented and pluralistic parliamentary arc to accompany him in the most important matters, so that citizens find solutions, reliefs and opportunities to the problems we live in. But before going into flour, I want to say to the Saharan people that the commitment of the Socialist Party and the socialist government, with a solution to their situation, has been, is and will be unequivocal. It is in political terms, so I will add later, and it is in solidarity actions. Spain is the first bilateral European donor of aid. Through the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation for Development, we meet food and health needs, which we want to extend to education. We have done this for EUR 5 and a half million in 2020, and EUR 7.7 million in 2021. And to this growing solidarity of the present Government, which, by the way, has not been so in all governments, we must add what is provided by autonomous communities and local entities. Ladies and gentlemen, the origin of this debate is the letter sent on 14 March by the President of the Government of Spain to the King of Morocco proposing a new relationship between the two countries and trying to overcome problems of the recent past and also of the present. In this letter the President of the Government, inter alia, said: "I recognize the importance of the question of Western Sahara to Morocco, and Morocco's serious and credible efforts within the United Nations framework to find a mutually acceptable solution. In this sense, Spain considers the Moroccan proposal of autonomy presented in 2007 as the most serious, credible and realistic basis for the resolution of this dispute." It is clear that this letter has diplomatic value and has created no less political debate. It is also evident that around this house there is much exaggeration, much opportunism and much occultism on the part of many political formations. Exaggeration, because he is accused of a legal setback to international law, and because it may be a reason for an escalation of war from Morocco in the Sahara. These statements can only be made from ignorance or from wickedness, or from both circumstances. There is opportunism in criticism, because when criticism of the Government is made in the absence of repression and proportionality the objective is not the letter, but to feed the atmosphere of criticism with a goal of intended wear. Occultism, because there is not a single term, an expression, an orientation of that letter that is not reflected in UN resolutions, as you know or should know. Ladies and gentlemen, UN Resolution 690 of 1991 is pronounced by a referendum on the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara to choose between independence and integration in Morocco. Sixteen years later, in 2007, Morocco proposes an autonomy plan for Western Sahara to the United Nations; indeed, a plan that has other background that I will comment on later. The UN has been saying in this regard about this 2007 proposal by Morocco, which welcomes the serious and credible efforts to move the process forward towards a resolution, and says more. He said that the parties, Western Sahara and Morocco, showed political will on the respective proposals; otherwise, on proclaiming independence, on integration in Morocco or on the autonomy plan. In addition, the United Nations invites the parties, Western Sahara and Morocco, to work with concepts such as realism and a spirit of compromise, and also adds that it encourages neighbouring countries to contribute to the political process. And the UN again insists on the need for a political solution that is realistic, viable, lasting and acceptable to all parties. And this is done in Resolution 2602 of 29 October 2021, a few months ago, too few for them to want to hide it, and it also does so in numerous resolutions from 2007 until today. Do you want to tell me what the difference is between the terms of the resolution I mentioned and the President's letter? Will anyone here deny that the UN when it talks about the affected parties refers to Western Sahara and Morocco? Ladies and gentlemen, as you put it, since 2007 the UN resolutions have been speaking in these terms. I would ask myself who they want to oppose: the President of the Government or the UN. Ladies and gentlemen, to be sure, today the resolution that has the most institutional and political value for socialists, as well as the UN, is the 1991 resolution on the organization of a referendum on self-determination. An approach that no one denies as a first and main option, but which is not the only one, and that, whatever it is, we all bet that it is done within the framework of the United Nations and that it is up to the parties concerned to agree. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at some other background that I referred to earlier. The proposal of autonomy in two different versions, one of autonomy with its corresponding competences and another of competence autonomy for five years and referendum of determination, the first dealt with in 2000 and the second in 2003, does not make it Morocco, which does so in 2007: it is done by the special representative of the UN Secretary-General for Western Sahara. Before the first proposal, that of 2000, the Frente Polisario said he was willing to study it, although then I rejected them; before the second it was Morocco that said no. There were even other proposals, such as that of Algeria and the Frente Polisario, to divide the territory between the parties. Ladies and gentlemen, since when have the proposals not been included in democratic policy? Who demands unique thought? Who refuses to offer options and opportunities in the face of the conflicts that have been overtaken and of very long duration? Since when is a reference to a text that appears repeatedly in UN resolutions a legal, political and diplomatic setback...?... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... duration?, since when is a reference to a text that appears repeatedly in UN resolutions a legal, political and diplomatic setback, as it says in one of the initiatives?, what is this, ignorance or evil? I understand the displeasure of your ladies and gentlemen, because the President of the Government of Spain does not exercise diplomacy in an assembly manner, asking for permission from the investiture partners or subjecting it to public debate to see who makes it fatter. Some naïve people must have thought that being in a minority is being gagged, tied to their feet and hands, or waiting for them to give you permission to do politics. And I also understand, because in the world there has to be a little bit of everything. And because I understand that, too, I'm going to tell you two things, in case they might be of interest to you. The first is the following: in recent years, relations between Spain and Morocco have not worked in the best way. Spain has serious problems, some of which are already being overcome, with migratory flows, with security, with cooperation in anti-terrorist matters, with business and commercial relations, with land and maritime borders, and the Government, in defence of the interests of Spanish citizens, especially Ceuta, Melilla, Canarias, Andalusia, Murcia or Valencian Community, among others, has a duty to resolve, has the responsibility to do so, and also, as can be seen, the determination that today offers interesting results, because determination is universal heritage, it has the Polisario Front to defend its political positions, and it has the Government of Spain to use diplomacy and defend its own. The second thing I want to share is this: since 1975 there has been the conflict in Western Sahara. Since 1991, there has been a UN resolution on self-determination. Since that same year, the interest of the United Nations in contributing to the organization and monitoring of a referendum has been in place. As of today, there is no voter census. It has been 47 years since the start of the conflict and 31 years since the proposed and unimplemented solution. It is clear that this conflict today is blocked, that from maximalist positions by the parties on the horizon there is no movement. It is also evident that the time and circumstances of conflict are not the same for those who live and suffer it as for those who are far from the place where it is produced and in very acceptable living conditions. This allows us with some comfort to invoke the epic of resistance, without needing to ask us more questions, and feeling great self-satisfaction for the beauty and roundness of the words with which we send breath. A conflict always needs an agreement. The essence of the agreement has three parts: mutual recognition of the interlocutors, the ability to listen between the parties, and the willingness to yield by the parties to find satisfactory content. Socialists bet on recognition, listening and meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, in conflicts and resignations there are no agreements, life teaches it. In conflicts with maximalism and immobilism there are no solutions, as life teaches. In one Government diplomacy is to be used, life also teaches it, as well as life teaches that the parties directly affected are those who are entitled to decide and those who will decide. Socialists are only helping, we are only in that everything that comes is within the framework of the UN, and if it goes beyond the theoretical and applies in practice, great, thinking about the Saharan citizens 47 years well worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u12	Thank you, Mr Price. Mythto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u13	Thank you, Madam President, Lehendakari, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, and good morning also especially to the Saharan representatives present here today, to whom we extend a hug and a cordial greeting. In secret and through the back door, surprisingly and without counting on anyone, and when I say nobody is anyone. This is the way Mr Sánchez and the Socialist Party do politics and understand the rule of law and parliamentary democracy. Nothing that surprises us, and nothing that we are not used to at this point, but not since Vox we will stop denouncing the irresponsible and interested granting of Western Sahara to the Kingdom of Morocco. A concession, in any case, that for Vox is neither binding nor binding on us. We are talking about an individual decision by Mr Sánchez, a unilateral concession that did not have the courage to consult his own Government. Nor did he bother to seek parliamentary or diplomatic support. Moreover, the Royal House and its Majesty the King, found out like all of us about a leak from the Moroccan press. This is the loyalty and respect that the President of the Government and the Socialist Party have for Spain and the Spanish. The letter sent to the king of Morocco represents a double betrayal of the Saharan people, of whom we are the administering power, do not forget, and of the Spanish people, especially the Spaniards also of Ceuta, Melilla and Canarias. Have you stopped to think for a moment about the image we are giving around the world? Morocco is throwing us waves of immigrants who are attacking our borders and Spain responds to this blackmail by agreeing to its demands. "A new stage of relations with Morocco", we are sold from Moncloa. Let them tell the Ceutis, Melilenses and Canaries who have suffered the consequences of illegal immigration, insecurity and fear in their cities for years. The headline is quite different, ladies and gentlemen. Spain rewards Morocco after pushing the massive assault of Moroccans on its border. That's the reading that everybody's press does. In the face of the Moroccan oppression, the Spanish President's concession, the prestige and international respect of our nation has risen to the level of the betun. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the letter sent by Sánchez and endorsed by the Socialist Party also puts an end to Spain's position for nearly 50 years. It is an insult to all Spaniards, which is also neither binding nor committing us to anything. We do not feel bound to wrong decisions, lacking responsibility and common sense. The letter sent by Sánchez to Mohamed VI is a new smoke curtain to hide the social and economic crisis we are going through, because while the government takes the photo in the gala dining room next to the Moroccan king... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... It's a new smokescreen to hide the social and economic crisis we're going through. Because as the government takes the picture in the gala dining room next to the Moroccan king, the Spanish continue to face the difficult reality of the past year: historical inflation, light from the clouds, gas fired and broken businesses. By the way, a dinner in Morocco by Mr Sánchez in which the Spanish flag appears on the reverse. In protocol it is a way of declaring surrender to a foreign armed force. The humiliation towards Spain is expressed by putting the flag of the reverse. Carelessness or humiliation? That is the paper that the PSE has to defend here today in this House. Am I wrong or are you part of that group of socialist dissidents who don't approve of acting as president? By his intervention, we understand that he does not. We understand that also here in the Basque Country they defend the indefensible and they abide by the discipline of voting. One more of the same evidence that the PSE is as unreliable as the Philippian Sánchez and, consequently, as the government that co-aligns in the Basque Country, null credibility and null reliability. Once again the PSE joins the game, despite having compromised with the official criticism made by the Basque Executive when the leak of the letter sent was known. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, your amendment to the whole of the PSE is to Mortadelo and Filemón. They ratify their support for UN resolutions. But if the president has failed them all, and also without blushing. Look, for a moment, I thought they were amending Sanchez himself. And it is also particularly painful that Podemos, the largest partner, the largest partner right now, of the Government of Spain, should bring us today an initiative rejecting the support of the Spanish Government, of which they are part, for the proposal of the Kingdom of Morocco on the autonomy of the Sahara. Are you still not aware that you are part of this government, even if it is a minority? You are also responsible for the decisions your government partner makes, so are the rules of the game. In Vox of course we bet that the United Nations agreements on Western Sahara are respected, as it cannot be otherwise. But reading is much broader. We see the pernicious tandem that forms the coalition that represents, or at least should represent, all Spaniards and ensure their interests. In Vox we are clear that the traitor is in Moncloa. But you, gentlemen of Podemos, have it at home. And they have done nothing to prevent this troop, to avoid this attack on the interests of all Spaniards and the Saharan people. A government that does not represent itself can hardly be legitimized to represent all Spaniards. This blank cheque to Mohamed VI has even more consequences. It comes in the midst of an energy crisis that endangers relations with one of our main gas suppliers, Algeria. The reaction of the Algerian authorities to this inflection in Spanish foreign policy on the Sahara was a matter of hours. "Spain betrays the Saharans" could be read in the Algerian press after the change of position. A tradition that has put into tension diplomatic relations, with cancellation of flights from Iberia between the two countries and suspension of repatriations. Another effect called on the arrival of new pateras. Mr Sánchez is able to jeopardize relations with Algeria in full energy conflict. And it's also closing the door to our country's own gas extraction. Now what? Because this surrender to the Moroccan kingdom has also not served to curb the annexationist pretensions of our neighbour in North Africa, who has not hesitated to reclaim the territories of Ceuta and Melilla. This is the government that we have all the Spaniards and all the Basques. And those who do not lack the support of some of the parties in this House, PNV and Bildu, also signatories today of the non-legislative proposal that we are debating. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the great strategist with whom they exchange letters in Congress. So, we see he's not a very reliable partner. Going back to the initiative. It should be recalled that Western Sahara is now a Non-Self-Governing Territory. And today it is not up to go beyond, it is not up to recognize what the Saharan people have not decided to be. I think they're the ones who have to decide. His secessionist obsession, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and Bildu, too, Podemos, is only his. And ladies and gentlemen of the PP, they would do well to unite positions on this issue. And we also say it with all our love. On the ground, in one of the enclaves most punished by the annexationist delusions of the Moroccan kingdom and by the continuous assaults on its border fence, the popular president in the Autonomous City of Ceuta, Mr. Vivas, took very little time to celebrate this abandonment of Spanish neutrality in the conflict in Western Sahara, as, according to his own words, it satisfies the interests of the Ceutis. There, within the Assembly of the Autonomous City, Vox said exactly the same thing that I have heard in this House today: Sánchez's support for an autonomy for the Sahara, as Rabat proposes, is a betrayal of Spain. In Vox we will always hear the same speech in all the Spanish provinces; we do not change depending on where we are. This government of arbitrary impulses and clandestine actions has led Spain to an unsustainable situation. We are facing the worst government with the worst partners and at the worst time. We stand before the worst government, forged with all the enemies of unity, with all the enemies of equality and with all the enemies of the well-being of the Spaniards. In Vox we are in what Spain needs, we look after the interests of all Spaniards and all Basques. And what Spain needs is a government that adheres to international legality and that maintains a logical, sensible and prudent position in this conflict, of course that always looks after the interests of each and every one of us Spaniards and of course that also takes into account the interests of the whole Saharan people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u14	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answering round, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer Group, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u15	The commitment of the We May, the We May and the Left United with the cause of the Saharan people is irrevocable and unnegotiable. And there is not a single line in the electoral program and the government program that unites us to the Socialist Party in the government of the state that we are failing to comply with. What they are doing is the president of the government, Pedro Sánchez, with all the legitimacy of the world, I say, and with all the contradictions that must be managed, we say, but who has put the coalition in that sense, in... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... Government, Pedro Sánchez, with all the legitimacy of the world, I say, and with all the contradictions to be managed, we say, but who has put the coalition in that sense, in that problem has been the President of the Government. And, Mr. Prieto, you were talking about occultism. What has hidden the President of the Government is this letter, sent to the King of Morocco, without consulting anyone at all; I know that not even with the executive of his party. Nor with the Vice-President of the Government. Neither can we with United We can. Nor with the majority of the Government. Nor, even, with the main opposition party. That's occultism. And I thought, at least, that they were going to make a humble, quiet, explanatory intervention, but no, he accused us of the others of unique thinking, the rest of the House, the rest of Congress, 90% of State society, almost 99% of the Basque people. Of unique thought he has accused the rest of us; to formations as different as those we have spoken here. I don't know, I recommend temperance for the second intervention. Templanza, which is the one that is needed in this solution to this problem. Because you have also made the full amendment to the statement by the President of the Balearic Islands, her party; or the President of the Canary Islands, her party; or to the motion adopted yesterday in the City of Eibar, by her party. You have accused others of... once again, of unique thought and occultism. That letter was sent to the king of Morocco, without consulting either the other party in conflict, the Frente Polisario, the Saharaui Arab Democratic Republic, a recognized state - as has already been said - by more than 80 countries. Without consulting with Algeria, in a master game of trying to bring an ambassador who was called to consultations by his government, which has resulted in the main gas supplier and a neighbor as important as Algeria calling to consultations with his government. Praying you have to be there so you don't cut the gas, as it looks like you're not going to do fortunately. You do it from a position of weakness, and putting solidarity as a currency of change. Solidarity as a concept and cooperation as a concept must be a concept that does not require currency exchange. And I would never make the mistake of speaking on behalf of the Saharan people, but I have heard countless times from representatives of the Saharan people that they will not change the solidarity they need, because they live in very complicated conditions in the Saharan camps and also in the territories occupied by political positions. That's not gonna happen. And, by putting at the first point in his speech the element that we are in solidarity – it would be more lacking – he is doing that: he is asking for currency exchange. And that the Saharan people will not accept. I was talking about a referendum. Well, let's get going, by helping MINURSO organize that referendum, the census already in MINURSO made a proposal, for example. You say there was no access; well, there was a proposal. There was a proposal for a referendum. Autonomy may be an option, but what is an agreement that needs to be implemented is a referendum of self-determination by the Saharan people, who have to make those decisions. Not you, endorsing as the most serious and credible proposal one of the proposals of the parties. And that can't be. Because you were also talking about divestitures: that the parties have to give in. I would ask you, Mr Prieto, what the Saharan people must yield to. After decades of suffering, after decades of exile, after decades of murder, torture, imprisonment, rape, with very complicated living conditions in the desert. What else does he have to give up? More lives in exchange for freedom? More lives in return for the people becoming smaller and smaller? What does the Saharan people have to give up, Mr. Prieto?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u16	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, yours... [[Microphone Off spoke]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Okultismaz, pentsakera bakarraz, ignorant edo gaiztakeriaz. Occultism, unique thought, ignorance or evil. The truth is that I am not going to waste too much time in your speech, Mr Prieto, because I believe that your words speak for themselves. But from the bottom of it, yes, I'd like to go because once in a while, after this change of attitude, you're cheating. You cheat, and in your today's correction we also check on the − again what you want-that is to say, your purpose. And this is your one-sided attitude to these resolutions, these international resolutions, and your historical attitude. And that's not true. That's not the case. That's not the case, Mr. Prieto. There is a letter to which we parliamentarians have had access, in which the Spanish Association of Teachers of International Law and International Relations points out that the socialist position does not respect international legality, and it is very strong. And, if that were not enough, those United Nations resolutions - in the 74 that I have already commented on - there is no way of saying what you are defending and what you are saying. It is not said that Morocco's proposal for autonomy is the most credible way out, the most likely way out would be the conflict and occupation of Western Sahara. There's nothing to say. That is why we believe it is important, and we say it sincerely, that they rectify. All groups are asking you, please, to rectify. And let them do so as soon as possible, and let them cease to be a Moroccan actor in what they have become. And that is the agreement that stands in that shameful letter that Mr. Martinez has taught. That letter in which they argue that the Moroccan proposal is the most serious, the most realistic and the most credible. And if we consider that today in occupied Western Sahara the Saharan population lives, as has been said, in a situation of exclusion, vulnerability, invisibility, how is it possible for you to say...?... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... occupied the Saharan population lives, as has been said, in a situation of exclusion, vulnerability, invisibility, how is it possible for you to say that this exit is the most credible and the most serious? It doesn't make sense. If, moreover, we take into account that the Democratic Saharawi Arab Republic - the unoccupied part of the Sahara - is a state recognized by 80, 80 countries, 80 countries in the world, and that it is also a founding member of the African Union, it turns out that the proposal that you support - which is nothing other than the autonomy of Morocco - is impossible. It is unrealizable in terms of international law. Therefore, it is a pointless one to say that it is the most serious, that it is the realistic and the credible. And what you have to tell us – and you've talked about occultism – is what's behind this. Why? Because you haven't said anything about that, Mr. Prieto. Why have they unilaterally changed that historic position that generated so much social and political consensus with regard to Western Sahara? Because if we do not know what the conditions for this change are, we do not know what the consequences or the extent of this serious change are. In exchange for what? And as I said before, we don't think we know what's behind this, and there's been a terrible lack of transparency in all this. But I have said that there is no material primary in the world, no gepolitical or strategic interest in making a systematic irrigation of human rights for a state or kingdom, and opposing the Saxon people, in order to sell Sahara in this manner. And we hope, and it's really honest, to recite, as I said before, before it was too late. And finally, as I said at first, the pain and anger you feel are also ours. That's what we want to get to you. And therefore, not only in the plane of solidarity, but in every shot we will continue to fight for you. We'll continue to fight for you. Porque tat y como dice un proverbio saharaui, el que no vive para servir, no sirve para vivir. Y esto dicho de una philosophosía de vida de pueblo que antepone los desos de la comunidad (Applause) lounitari, las luchas colectivas por encima de eros. And, citizens of Esscal, the Basque People knows something about this because there is also part of our history. And that's why you'll be members and allies. And that's why yesterday, today and in the future we'll be on the side of the sahara. Go up Sahara. Shahara Hurra!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. The word is yours, Madam.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u19	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Well, Mr. Prieto, you come to tell us practically that we are no one or that we cannot censor Mr. Sánchez's proposal or bet because we do not live the conflict, because we are not living the conflict. It is precisely the Saharawi people who are experiencing the conflict, and it is the Saharawi people themselves who have censored this proposal and Sánchez's bet. It's them and them, not us, well, so are we, but it's them and they that have censored him. You said that the first or main option is not to rule out the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara, but that there is more. Of course, it is not precisely for that, which is what the UN resolution of 29 October 2021 says: that it should advocate for the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara. And the letter is very clear. It does not advocate dialogue, it advocates the autonomy that Morocco wants to impose, and not the right of self-determination of the Saharan people. And I say again: the letter is very clear. In fact, it is called for autonomy or for nothing. And no path is ruled out, but, of course, it is not advocated for what the United Nations resolution says. However, I would not like to end this debate like this. I believe that what we need to highlight today is the consensus, the agreement that we have reached by the majority, more than 80% of this House, I would not like our guests to be left with the image of a broncho debate, because I do not think they deserve it either they or the Saharawi people. As I have said in my first Intervention, from our own group, the Euncist, the Basque Society, and all the Basque Institutions, will be with you, and we will continue your journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u21	Thank you, President. My intervention, I have endeavoured at the first moment of my intervention to say what this was. Because it is our position, what is our tradition, what is our approach, what have we been working on here? And what we are basing our position on cannot be removed from a pen. We are going to leave the dark and unilateral diplomacy that will fix this situation. And what about that political recognition, those statements, those communiqués from so many institutions in this country, that cooperation that the flag of Saharawi freedom has behind it? With these caravans, with these twinnings of cities, of Spanish and Basque provinces with such exemplary reception programs, with this population also residing in our land, which is welcomed and which integrates with us and those we know? With these public human rights programs? Here we have a programme of human rights of the Basque Government, where we have to welcome militants and Saharan human rights defenders because they are under military occupation, the illegal Moroccan occupation in the occupied territories. That must be answered, that cannot be removed from a pen. I know, Mr Prieto, that it is a complicated position of yours in relation to what has been the history of the Basque Socialist Party. I have also met coordinators of the Socialist Party of Euskadi at the head of the... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ...delicate yours in relation to what has been the history of the Basque Socialist Party. I have also met coordinators of the Basque Socialist Party at the head of the Parliamentary Intergroup Conferences. And here are their examples and the statements that we have adopted with them. I have here a summary of the more than 30 intergroup parliamentary conferences throughout Spain, throughout Spain since 1992, where we have said the same thing some of us are going to say today. The only difference is the Socialist Party. That is, that in that sense it is not a question of diplomatic alternatives, it is not a question of making a diplomat, a diplomacy of discretion. No, no. It is to respond to needs. And the one, and the only way out, the only, because anyone else isn't going to be a way out. The only way out is the referendum on self-determination for Western Sahara. She's the only one. She's the only one. That still, and that has been the constant since the 1990s, when United Nations resolutions were made, is MINURSO; that is the United Nations mission for the referendum in Western Sahara. And that's not what the UN has thrown down, that's what it reaffirms every day. In some matters, words or diplomatic language may be one or the other. But the extension of MINURSO and the role of MINURSO is constant. And that's for something, for something. And we also have to recognize that it was the fundamental work of the United Nations throughout this issue, it was the Baker Plan, the Baker Plan, where the date of the referendum was already being discussed. The boycott of Morocco threw him to the ground at the time. We in this Parliament have gone with Basque cooperation, we have gone to (...), which is the most extreme point of Western Sahara, of the territories liberated next to Mauritania, to inaugurate a campaign hospital for the referendum; at that time, sponsored by the Baker Plan. So that's a walk. That's a hoax we have here, and we have to defend it. I certainly do not want to confront the Socialist Party. I know what the Socialist Party has done. As far as I am concerned, my fellow Members, with whom we have spent so many hours in the refugee camps, in the occupied territories. They stopped us from coming in. I mean, we've lived many hours that unite us, of course. And to unite us with the Saharan cause, to unite us with the Saharan people. Behind, behind all that, all that experience, all that walk, behind, there is nothing but the freedom of the Saharan people. Freedom, and its ability to choose what that freedom should be like. And so do we, over many more years. The statements of the... United Nations resolutions, of 90; but earlier there was more. And this Parliament itself has had resolutions long since the 1980s, since the beginning of its course on this subject. And those resolutions have always said support for a free and transparent referendum in Western Sahara, support for a free, transparent referendum on the future free of the Saharawi people. These have been our resolutions, not those of the United Nations, are the statements of this Basque Parliament. But they have a lot of value. That can't be done by giving a folder and saying that you have to leave a diplomacy, that no one understands it, that no one knows what it is to keep driving. No, no, Sánchez's proposed autonomy is illegal. And when one thing is illegal you say it, and you assume it. Say what you are doing with an illegal approach, but bear the consequences. Because that's what the letter reflects. In short, I want to reaffirm our historic position in this House. I've tried to make arguments. I'm not here to read a government side. The situation needs to be addressed in a coherent and legal manner. Someone says: relations between Spain and Morocco have not worked the best way. Suspense points. Conclusion: we give them Western Sahara. These are the solutions proposed by the Socialist Party. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u22	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u23	President, ladies and gentlemen. I am very grateful for Mr Barrio and also for Mr Estarrona's intervention, because it allows me to make practically this reply. Mr. Barrio, he said that he was a special UN envoy, Mr. (...), the one who started talking about autonomy in 2000. And then I repeat it in 2003. Then came Morocco's 2007 proposal. And then the question is why is it a crime to talk about autonomy in a letter? Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a Parliament. That in this Parliament saying that the paragraph with a letter is illegal and is contrary to international law, in short, is to make it look at it Since when is a diplomatic definition illegal? Since when is a political proposal illegal? When we talk in this Parliament about the right to decide, is it illegal? Is it constitutionally collected? But what are we talking about? But why is overreacting in criticism of the President of the Government, and of the Government, and of the Socialist Party more important than reason? But why? That's the problem. They are trapped in the need to make criticism, and therefore, they are absent from reason. But there has been talk of autonomy on countless occasions. Mr Estarrona has not read resolution 2,602, because, if he had read it on page two, he says: "taking note of the proposal submitted to the Secretary-General on 11 April 2007, and welcoming Morocco's serious and credible efforts to move the process towards a solution". For the proposal he made in 2007, this says the UN resolution To whom do they amend, the President of the Government of Spain, or the UN? I think we're at another point in the play. I believe that this letter, which has a remarkable diplomatic effect; that of course it has a political content, that it is obvious that it generates a controversy and that it can be made... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... that it has a remarkable diplomatic effect; that of course it has a political content, that it is obvious that it generates a controversy and that it can be done in an absolutely reasonable way, it is very dislocated and very disoriented, mainly because we are in that political setting in which anything is attempted to give wax to the Government of Spain. And I understand him. I get it. And most of all I understand it very much from the extreme right and the extreme right, which are like a fly in a bottle. Have you ever tried putting a musk in a bottle? Well, just... The only proposal of the bottle is a tinnitus. There's no more. A tinnitus, moreover, unpleasant. So, this is the big problem, being permanently fine-tuning in a toneless criticism. Since when did...? Mr. Martinez said, "What do the Saharans have to give up?" Very simple, whatever they want. Because no one questions that this is done within the framework of the United Nations. And no one questions the legitimacy of the parties and only of them, nothing more than them. You who talk so much about international law should know it a little more. Only the parties concerned could resolve this within the framework of international law. And who supplants the Saharan front or the Saharan people? Who's supplanting you? Or who supplants Morocco? Absolutely no one. Nor does the United Nations indicate a path. And when that path is in a phase, at least let's recognize it. Let's not talk about the failure of the UN. But let us talk about a path in which the years pass and pass and pass and absolutely nothing is solved. Well it seems that talking about more things, as is usually the case in all the conflicts that are being conquered, does not seem to be such a serious problem and certainly does not seem to be a taboo problem for politics. Listen, that the political position it defends..., rather than the political position, the terms of that letter that are in the UN resolutions are also terms that have been recognized, supported by France, by Germany, by the European Union. That is, it is not something that is outside political reason, diplomatic reason or the reason for thinking in the world in the face of conflict. Finally, I believe that they have come so eagerly to criticise a government that certainly does miracles. Listen, with the opposition that we have and being in the minority, that this country is working and that today we are making the social policy more recognizable than those that are being made in Europe and that today we have this excellent news that the leadership of the Spanish Government allows the Iberian peninsula to have another treatment in the price of gas in order to be able to combat inflation and to be able to alleviate the economic situation of companies because I know that it is good for the citizens and that it is bad for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u24	Thank you, Mr Price. Missa-Vox. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I will be very brief, because it is also not necessary to continue to influence all those kindnesses that Mr Prieto has sold us from this Government of Spain. I can assure you that right now, if we ask the citizenry, we are at the worst time in the world, electricity by the clouds, number of closed shops that do not reach the end of the month. And you're selling us a news that we still don't understand, and it's been to leave a little bit here in height to the PSOE. But what we have very clearly, Mr Prieto, is that the President has acted in a totally opaque way. Because if you really thought that the performance you had had was positive, you would have transferred it to us all, you would have acted with that clarity that you sell that you have the PSOE, when it hasn't been so. In fact, we repeat, it is not a ballad that at that dinner that Mr Sánchez had with Mohamed VI was the flag of Spain of the other side. With all the protocol Mr Sánchez carries in the falcon every time he moves, we cannot give any credit that he has not seen the position of the Spanish flag. And, I repeat, I don't know if you know protocol, but protocol when a flag appears upside down is sign of surrender and humiliation. Something Mr Sánchez has brought to all the Spaniards, no matter how much he weighs you. Having said that, I will end up simply thanking the Saharan people again for being here. To say that we are in favour of all your requests, of course we are. But neither can we approve that certain parties now want to equal you in the suffering that you are going through, because it has absolutely nothing to do with it. Spain has recognized Euskadi as one of its provinces. And we can't allow Vox to want to interfere with his situation to get into that bag. Of course we support the Saharan people in all their defense because they are very large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u26	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. After discussion, we're going to vote with the Eubertians, collect EH, and together with the original text of the proposition as well as the Podemos-Nodemo teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 64; the opponents 10; the scores 1, the white ones; the white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u27	So another legal proposal has been accepted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u28	juanak: Madam President, for the record, I ask that our non-law proposal also be voted on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u29	You know we can't vote. At the spokesman's committee, all the teams have explained that the procedure will continue. And it wasn't my business, but all the teams have given their opinion and... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... It has been explained that the procedure in question will follow. And it wasn't my business, but all the teams have given their opinion, and that's decided on the vote. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal, as a parlamentary group of myths, concerning the actual execution of the fundamental rights of political nature. Discipline and final resolution. Ms. Martínnez, representative of the Mistto-Vox team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u30	Good morning to you all again. I promise to be brief, because what we are proposing here today has little discussion. It is a question of the most elementary democratic common sense. Moreover, it has become particularly topical once the harassment suffered by a PP militant in Vitoria, similar, by the way, to which Vox militants, one of them in Alegria, have also suffered for a long time. In fact, I want to start my speech by expressing my party's and my personal condemnation of the harassment that a person suffers from being a PP militant, as I said, just as others of Vox suffer, something that Bildu resists to reject, perhaps because of political affinity with the harassers. It is outrageous that our young Basques are targets of radicals for the mere fact of thinking differently, is this not a hate crime, Mr Erkoreka? And even today, I'm going to remind you of something that Javier Vizcaíno wrote yesterday in Deia. Always criticizing, moreover, with Spain and everything that sounds Spanish. Thus he closed an article about this umpteenth harassment: "It is tremendous to tell you something like this at this point in the calendar, but it is even worse that we have not yet gotten rid of these miserable behaviors, not only because there are those who practice them, but because there are still too many who justify it. But I am afraid it will prove today that there are many of the people sitting in this Parliament among those too many. That being said, one of two: either we agree on the right of any political group to the free exercise of political action anywhere, of course, also on the public road, or the four of the cordon will endorse in Parliament the use of violence to undermine that right to the political adversary. Either you're free or you're protecting the use of violence, there's no other option. The photographer's ready. Now we'll see who gets on one side and who gets on the other. We are clear that today the ultra-left formations that openly defend the use of violence against Vox, but also against the PP, Citizens, and even against the PSOE, are going to reject our initiative, but, what are the government partners going to support today?, we will see if they are advocates of equal rights. I must confess that there have been times when we have assumed as normal the abnormality of being surrounded by agents of Ertzaintza antidisturbations in every political act, whatever type, but we are already tired of resorting to police protection to defend our political idea, as legitimate as that of anyone, and doubtless much more than that of those who vitiate murderers or defend slavery as a form of political action. The trigger was the inauguration of our headquarters in San Sebastián. It is an event that all political parties consider festive, a time to share with people who join you ideas, projects for the future, and ways to understand the country and the environment. But in our case it was a party that had to be organized with a lot of prevention, knowing that the friends of the slaves and the nostalgics of violence etarra would do everything imaginable to defile the moment. The day chosen for the inauguration of the headquarters of Vox in San Sebastián was last March 18. That day we closed the circle and completed our presence in the three Basque capitals. There were people in our environment who preferred not to advertise the event, who feared that the irreducibles of Sortu and Podemos would try to destroy the moment with that violence that they have shown for decades. They wanted a party in peace without energizing shouting on the street, without despicable willingness to everything for the political adversary to flee, which is exactly what ETA did for decades. But we were faithful to our motto without fear of anything or anyone and defeated the option of celebrating that moment as any other political party would. That is, in our case, protected by Ertzaintza and stunned by that nationalist media brunette, convinced of her moral and ethical superiority. And during the inauguration there were the hosts of supporters of the bench that neither condemns nor rejects the violence of ETA, similar to a party that has made the threat and violence their sign of identity. By the way, it would be like magic that the previous day appeared in the place a palé with work material that with very good tenor and professionalism the Ertzaintza included within the police cordon, out of the reach of those entrepreneurs who insulted and threatened militants and affiliates of Vox. It would be a fatal coincidence or maybe not. Can you imagine something similar happening at the inauguration of the headquarters of any other political party? We would see an avalanche of condemnation reactions, harsh criticism of ETA nostalgics, demands for rejection and respect for the rest of the political options. But none of this happened, absolutely nothing. It is also true that no one is surprised that this is the case, because those who threaten and keep quiet are the ones in this Parliament who have agreed on an anti-democratic rope that Justice has unconstitutionalized. Undoubtedly a black milestone in the history of this institution. They sell their insult to democracy as one more phase of an anti-fascist pulse when fascism in this House represents it who still today do not consider violence as a tool for political imposition. They sell it as an exercise of democratic justice, when they are actually transferring to the citizenry the message that against Vox everything is worth, and not so, do not be mistaken. This is something that sooner or later will turn against you. Yes, the (?) Cordon tables have become co-responsible for the violence that pursues my party in every political act, in every inauguration, even at every moment of the day of our affiliates, co-responsible and complicit, although with their media and their propaganda they try to sell a parallel reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSOE, with their attitude, today they are legitimizing the persecution of ideas, and what is even worse, the aggression against the... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...a parallel reality. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSOE, with their attitude, today they are legitimizing the persecution of ideas, and what is even worse, the aggression against people. If today you do not support with your affirmative vote the free exercise of politics also for Vox, you are legitimizing the use of violence against those who think differently. Just for that. This same plenary room still hears ETA express defending the rights of murderers, extortioners and kidnappers. In this same plenary room, the State Security Forces and Bodies have been repeatedly insulted. For example, for the death of three murderers, the bomb of those who wanted to end the life of an innocent man broke out of their hands. In this same Hall of Plenos, respect for the Spanish Constitution is denied, its symbols are muddled, it is advocated for secession, and it is insulted to the Spanish. And all this with the complicit condescension of nationalists and socialists. But it's okay. All this is included in freedom of expression. You and your predecessors have always vehemently defended the right of any party to defend its ideas, provided that it is done in the absence of violence and in a peaceful and respectful manner. Because the one who poses it is Vox? You, both those who call on the use of violence and those who look elsewhere when that violence is aimed at Vox, are pursuing ideas and people. Regardless of the consequences, they don't stop to think about what example they're setting for citizens. And let me give you some of those moments that encourage the terrorist left and the ultra-left, and they are the protagonists of their faithful, their violent irreducibles. I'm sure everyone will remember the police cordon in Mondragon to ensure the safety of those of us who participated in an act against the abertzale left's pretension of publicly dressing an age-old killer. December 6, Constitution Day. Impresentable like the abertzale bench, they closed the door and forced the Ertzaintza to escort us to our cars. The police escort has been a constant in every event organized by Vox: in San Sebastián, in Ordizia, in the Bilbao neighborhood of San Francisco, in Sestao. In Sestao, where one of our deputies was savagely assaulted with a stone. Rocío de Meer was attacked by a stone, and I was at his side and was a direct witness to the violence that was taking place against us, for the only crime of holding an election rally, just as any other party was doing. It must also be honest and I must remember that the lehendakari Urkullu condemned this act through twitter, and said: those who today have assaulted the national deputy of Vox in the act of Sestao, and those who interfere with the acts of any political formation and/or harass people and parties who represent different choices, attack plurality and tolerance, which are identifying elements of a democracy; a system based on rules of play that must affect everyone in the same way, and are not legitimized to demand and claim anything. You remember that, don't you, Mr. Urkullu? You wrote it on twitter. We fully agree with your words, and we understand that, having said that, it will not be a sacrifice for your party today to support the initiative that we bring to this House today. To all these violent acts that I have enumerated, we could add those suffered by sympathizers and members of the PP; against citizens whose members were insulted in Renteria; and even as I said before, against representatives of the Socialist Party. As can be seen, freedom of expression continues to be threatened in the Basque Country by this horde of radical pro-eternal intransigents. And in this regard I would ask, why can both EH Bildu and Podemos, even the PNV, organize any kind of act without fear of the violent reaction of their political opponents? What is the relationship of the terrorist left and the ultra-left with the violence that is persecuting our political party, and others in this parliamentary arch, all of which we call Spanish? Obviously, the answer is clear: they are part of this violence. He comes through his youth or even sending his escorts to assault his political rivals. The consequence of all this is obvious, similar to those we live on our streets after years in which the defense of the unity of Spain and its symbols was punished with aggressions, extortions and threats, and even death. The ultra-left separatist becomes strong in the streets, while the rest want to force us to do politics in secret. And they say, for our safety and for our people's. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen. From this atrium we tell them that we will not hide, that we are not afraid of them, and that they will always have us in front. That's right, we won't turn our backs on them. Hey Bildu, Batasuna, Euskal Herritarrok, Herri Batasuna. In short, the political arm of ETA, has always had clear the importance of taking the streets, of socializing suffering. You remember that, don't you? In the face of all the violent acts that I have reported, and more that he told us because I lack the necessary time, what has the left abertzale done? That's right, silence. And the one who is silent, says, ladies and gentlemen, Is this how you want to contribute to progress in the construction of peace, when you are only investigating war and violence? Strange democratic criterion that you sell. It is clear that the violent ones, the nostalgics of pointing and harassment, are still among us. I also remind you that in 2009 the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Otegi's political project, that man of peace who has served prison for kidnapping an innocent man, did not respect the rules of democracy. I repeat, it was Bildu's leader, not Vox's, who did not respect the rules of democracy. You are on the opposite side of peace, freedom and democracy. For today I say to you that no matter how much you insult and threaten us, you will never get us to stop defending Spain and freedom on our land. And what about that leader of Sortu who with very little shame, reduced importance to the aggressions and painted from the left car in defense of Iñaki Ruiz, the assassin of Tomás Caballero, during his hunger strike. 103 attacks on headquarters and political parties took place during that month. It said this character that those paintings were removed with acetone, but that the death of an etrara inmate was not reversible. To that dark and moral being I would say: and the death of an innocent being at the hands of the ETA killers, is it reversible? Because you have not yet condemned the murders of ETA. Or does this immoral being consider that the murders of ETA are also removed with acetone? There you have our proposal. There you have the opportunity to vote in favour, or also to reject it, of course. The photographer's ready. They now decide whether or not to stand against the violence that they seek to limit - and in fact, limit - the right of any political party to the free exercise of its political activity on the street or where it considers it appropriate. That's right, respecting at all times the rules of the game, the legality in force... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the free exercise of its political activity on the street or where it considers it appropriate. That is so, respecting at all times the rules of the game, the legality in force, decide whether to defend that freedom for all or only for some. It's your decision. Photographers and journalists are out there to record what you do, although I fear that some of them are too to justify absolutely unjustifiable positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Popula-Ciudados, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President, Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats). A PNL that actually does only ask for compliance with the law. By reading it carefully and without detail, the only thing that can be deduced from it is that it calls for compliance with the law. PNL cites articles of Constitution 14, 16, 20, 21, 9 of the Political Parties Act, could cite more, 10 of the Human Dignity, 10.2 of the application of fundamental rights protected by international conventions in Spain. Resolutions from many international organizations, the Venice Commission, etc., etc. could be cited. But, finally, the PNL, in short, calls for other things, to recognize the right of legal parties to use the public way within the law, to condemn violent acts that limit it and to defend political plurality. All these are principles, criteria that fit into our constitutional text, which in addition defends, our Constitution actively defends this set of principles. In any democratic parliament in the world, in any democratic parliament in the world, a motion for a resolution like this would provoke two things: either a unanimous agreement of the House, or an absolute surprise as to why a motion for a resolution of these characteristics has to be brought here. It would be a real anomaly for some group to present it in a democratic parliament in a normal situation, why, because it is understood that the legal system, the constitutional system, protects these rights; that the public authorities, of course, defend it; and that the most important thing in this case, that all social bodies, civil society, have them perfectly assumed. Society itself has assumed them; however, here we are debating this non-law proposal today. The truth is that I am curious to see what the arguments that are going to be used by the groups supporting the Government, which we may hear, are going to be. I have seen that Mr Iturrate has changed his seat, perhaps he will intervene. We'll see, I'm curious to hear the arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, in this society, in this Parliament, the anomaly is not that Vox has a seat in this Parliament, the anomaly is that there is a political party that has not condemned the age-old violence, it is that there is a political party sitting here that has not condemned the age-old violence, and to which all political groups, except those of our group and the proposing group, have standardized it completely. Here it has been normalized that groups, that all groups in the House, bring PNL to condemn past regimes, past situations. Okay, okay, well, in those debates, besides, Bildu is particularly active; however, they still do not want to condemn the violence of the era. It has been normalized that there is absolutely no inconvenience in displaying any kind of flag, no longer in a private capacity, but even in institutions, (?) of other countries, of other regimes, of other places, well, it is well, the sign of some support, of support for certain causes, today we have seen it also in this Chamber; however, it has cost a number of lawsuits, a number of lawsuits to which was delegated from the government in Euskadi, Mr Carlos Urquijo, that the Basque institutions also display the Spanish flag as a mark the law, is that of this they do nothing, ladies and gentlemen, this was before yesterday. In short, here we have come to standardise that we use, and it is good that this is the case, the flag of the Autonomous Community, the Ikurriña everywhere, not only the public institutions, of course, but also in all private institutions, in NGOs, in companies, in associations. Hey, all right, that's normalized, but listen, and the one who pulls out a Spanish flag, have we normalized that? The one who takes out a Spanish flag is accused of provoking, is seen as a provocation. The lifting of a flag from Spain in Euskadi is seen as a provocative and pointed out by some groups in this House sitting here, and we all know who they are. It has been normalized, ladies and gentlemen, that there should be public spaces that are forbidden, barred from supporters and acts of certain parties. I no longer say acts of certain parties, which I could mention. So, Mrs Martínez has made a collection of acts, I was in one of them in Renteria, etc., well, but it is no longer just acts of political parties, it is that there are public spaces that are barred from the people who are identified as that we do not coincide with that thought, in this case, then nationalist, ultranationalist (?)"Filoetara, whatever you want to call it. And I mean, for example, the city parties. It's just that in my city, in Bilbao, we all know, when the Great Week arrives, the Nagusia Aste, we all know what happens in the Txoznas. As one goes, a militant who dares to go around, a militant of a political party, because of the PP, for example, of Citizens, Vox, listen, is that the one who rides, is that as they are recognized, there has to be a practically unknown one, because as they are recognized everyone knows the one who rides, and if you think about going, listen, because it is your city, because it is your right to move freely through your city, is that you are a provocateur, it is that you need police escort to be able to enter the area of the Txoznas. And this, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we are in this House. I'm not revealing any secrets here at all. We have come, ladies and gentlemen, to such an extent that even the youngest, imbued by that hatred of the different that for so long has poisoned the minds on this earth, that even the youngest are allowed to threaten those who think differently, and intend to prevent them from moving freely through their own city, Vitoria. Mrs Martinez has also said so before. I mean comrade Ander García Oñate... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... prevent him from moving freely through his own city, Vitoria. Mrs Martinez has also said so before. I mean comrade Ander García Oñate, whom you have pointed out, harassed and threatened for being a militant of a political party with which you do not... with whose ideas they do not agree. But where does that come from? Where does it come from that different people have to be treated with that kind of violence, with that rejection? Where did that come from? There are already two times that has happened with Ander García, twice, and twice that this harassment has occurred. And, well, Bildu, as we know, for he resists to condemn him. Other things do condemn them. But this doesn't condemn him. They have been normalized, ladies and gentlemen, and I am finished with so many abnormal things, so many abnormal things have been normalized, that in the end there is a group that brings to this House an initiative simply to say that the law is being enforced. And the truth is, it doesn't surprise anyone, it doesn't surprise anyone. Those who are going to vote against are not surprised and those who are going to vote in favour are not surprised either. We, ladies and gentlemen, are going to vote in favour of the initiative for two reasons. First of all, because all he says is that the law is enforced. Secondly, because it is necessary for this Parliament to send a clear message to society by delegitimizing these behaviours that are not normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos (?...?.). Basque Socialists shouldn't be part of it. Not even EH Collect. Not even eubertarians. So, Miss Mistto-Vox, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u34	Mr Gordillo, make no mistake, Mr Iturrate has played the lead, but he has not intervened, as is usual in any of the debates that Vox brings. The silence of this House, with the exception of yours, Mr Gordillo, leads me to doubt whether the initiative that they are refusing to discuss today has really been read. Or, as I am afraid, I am very afraid, they have remained in the name of the group that signs it, since it was sentenced by the Constitutional Court, the Mixto-Vox group, with all its letters and with all its equities, of course. And since the doubt is reasonable, let me remind you of the content of our non-law proposal because it is very simple. I understand that I should not have to remind you of some articles of our Constitution, those that allow you to sit here today, and of that Party Law, which I have already made clear on our initiative and which I believe is not welcome to repeat again because I understand that you are all aware of the Spanish Constitution, or so it should be. Despite all this, and as you well know, ladies and gentlemen, here, in the Basque Country, as in many other places in Spain, there are parties and collectives committed to limiting the right of Vox and other political formations to carry out their activities on the public road. And for this they use the threat and violence, in addition to the imposition of anti-democratic and institutional unconstitutional cords. That's why we pose today... And here I am going to be very mimetic. Listen carefully because I'm afraid that's what you're going to reject here today. One, "The Basque Parliament recognizes the right of any political formation legally established to use the public way for its political action, at all times respecting the legal rules applicable to each particular case". Why can't you support this? Point two. "The Basque Parliament condemns any violent act aimed at limiting the right of parties to political activity." I understand that you should also support this point. Why aren't you going to do it? And point three. "The Basque Parliament defends the political plurality and the right of individuals and parties to defend their ideas on an equal and free basis in the absence of violence." Nor do I understand why they cannot support it because I am widespread for all political parties. Do you allow it to be this way for some and not for others? We don't understand. You who are so brave and so brave show up here with Vox who refuse to discuss our proposal, do so because here we have one representative obviously. And besides, I'm a woman, right? Because they do argue with Vox in the Congress of Deputies. I mean mostly the bench on the left. Of course here you are very brave when you are majority and above the rival is a woman. It clearly means one thing: that you are sectarians and sexists. By the way, there has not been an institutional declaration today condemning the attacks on young people for thinking differently, demanding tolerance, respect for plurality and coexistence in our community, because there are still parties that support violence, threats and harassment. That is an indisputable symptom that freedom in the Basque Country does not exist. Do they also export that to delegations that open up in Europe or hide it because they are ashamed of it? I will end by saying that defending this is an anomaly in a democratic Parliament. I think you know that and what I don't know is how you can be with your head so high in front of these trophies that are being committed in this community. By the way, gentlemen of the PNV and the PSOE, on other occasions they have not discussed with Vox because they are part of their propaganda. Today I fear that it is because they have no argument to justify the unjustifiable sense of their vote, and I think that will be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u36	President. Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. I believe that the groups of the House and also those of the Government have lost an opportunity here today precisely to demonstrate one thing, and it is that, look, to fight some ideas the solution is not to isolate a party like Vox, to make a cord, to expel it from public space. Look, this has already been done by President Mitterrand in France, Socialist President Mitterrand, and has only served to feed the victimism of some, to give them more arguments and to make the extremes grow more. The solution here is to combat ideas in Parliament, in public spaces. You have to tell the proposals they bring why they're wrong, why they're... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... The solution here is to combat ideas in Parliament, in public spaces. We must tell the proposals why they are wrong, why they are wrong, why they are going to lead us to complicated, worse situations. That's what needs to be done. What needs to be done is to analyze each other's ideas, confront them, discuss them, censor them with arguments, proposing alternatives. The other way around is to feed victimism, particularly from the extremes. But this, ladies and gentlemen, you know it. And maybe, sadly, that's what they're trying to do. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u37	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. After discussion, we're going to vote with the original text of our proposition as the Mistto-Vox team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 75; the votes given are 75; the supporters 7; the opponents are 68. Absences, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u38	So, not allowed original text. Third point in theme list: "Punish another proposition of the law of the parliamentary gatherings, concerning the strengthening of the cyclones in the education of trade. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Iriart, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u39	Good morning, everyone. Congressmasters, members of the legislature, chiefs of departments, good days. By this other proposal of ours, as today, we aim to encourage it in the education of trade. And it is, after all, that in 2018, this Assembly of Laws consented to put the Laws concerning the Education of the Common-wealth, in the way of fulfilling them. 27. This proposition, as I have already mentioned, is the same as that of the Law of Education. In the article the development of the sustain would be the development of this point, which he speaks and reflects about presence and use. And that's what he says, among other things. pt: Educational training programs will confirm that it is a convenient continuation of the language established in the second school; so that the language made in the preceding stages may not be interrupted. The D pattern will be pushed into opening, and also in the example A will induce the eucalyptic lesson to be included. This is the Law concerning the Education of Job in 2018. The end, therefore, would be to develop the law mentioned by this legislature, and to give a small letter to this article 2, or 27. For we must clearly say that at the present day the euscal profession, as it has acquired excellence in other respects, has not yet attained it in the use and development of the eucalyptus. We believe in research, in methodology, in a network with corporations, in the study, as it is referred to internationality, it should also have reference in the eucalyptic. And this educational area ought to be guaranteed the rights of language. It is not, as I have said, a day's work that guarantees the study of eucatiousness. Today, the Educational Education does not fulfill the goals and the language challenges itself. And we may clearly say that it does not ensure that it follows with the use of language made in the foregoing, as it says. For the facts are clear: 66% of the DBH network, they choose to learn the type D from 71% and Batxiler. But in the Hebrew professions the type D is limited to 21,5%, and the average case is the A type, which prevails by about 58%. This puts it on the table that the purpose is not to be mentioned, that there is a pause between the students and students who make a leap in the Hezic studies at the Batxier and the DBH model. And in this sense, the other, as today, would like to face this. And in this sense, he would fain have it to be allowed him to make the language and study of those who study it for the sake of euphoria, and to maintain that example of study. For this proposition, which we make here today, was a maximist, and in this maximalism we might claim to guarantee the rights of the language of all the Basques. But it is plain, or was clear to us, that by this other law we intended to propose a journey, and that by this means we wished to go on in union, in harmony with all. And how? It's starting to work in specific areas. Because we also have to look into the future. Today, in Child Education and the First Education, they're starting to organize and rearrange the rooms. The whole education model is adapting itself to the demographic crisis. Not yet in the Heckish professions, but in the Professions the yearly license data is still up. For there are disciples, but this [is] its limit also, And its time [shall be] its appointed time. And then, if the language is not normalized and the way to learn it is not necessarily assured, we have a danger. And it will be dangerous to say to those eucacious eucalyptics, which when the centers of the Educational Schools begin to fight among themselves, what cycles they keep, how close and how least ratios it fills, there, the Basques, those who have the right to learn in the D model, now, as now often as it is, to hand them over to their plates, as it is at this time is, to connect in the cycle a minimum of students, and then to select a few lessons by the example B+. So we can't afford this chance to look into the future, we've got to start working today, and we've got to start today trying to make sure that we're able to learn about it. And for this purpose, as has been said, ours is a proposal to act upon exact subjects, which we do here today. Number one, light... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I can assure you of the opportunity to learn for yourself. And for this purpose, as has been said, ours is a proposal to act upon exact subjects, which we do here today. First, light: that there is also an insignia of our euska standard beyond the language of Euska. And now it's time to anticipate this campaign. Because the sign of our example, and beyond the insignia of our example, gives value to our economy, our society, and our − remarked model to −. It's also an economic industry model, because there's also one of our axes. Because of the confidence, the group, the people opening into the world, it shows that there is also a sign of the community and of the personality. We propose to make a guide to the second point, to the management of the profession and the orientation services of the schools, to the students and families of D, a guide, a protocol. Why? It's important to us that college orientations, even from the Hezik centers, should be a D- Pattern. Often, watching the minimal ratios of cycles and cycles and student plates close or get them, the license plate number B is used in the model. We think it's important to encourage a D pattern from the main point of view. And that's what we think it's important to make a protocol. Third, and this important thing also, that the student of the D model should descend from 12 to 8. We're asking for a positive discrimination. We ask the bureau to consider it, and in this sense, not by chance, but by changing the decree of the ratios, and applying the eucalyptic patterns from 12 to 8th ratio. The articles thus, or at this point, would increase the options for controlling the 27th article's language pattern. And fourthly, we proposed that the plan should be dissected, or we have, in order to insert the fundamental work of the Hezic cycles. In the day, the students who learn at the model A, do not endure the fundamental euphora which the decree says. Even students who learn in the example A do not listen to the eucature in class, and even the students who study the examples of B do not even listen to the eucaæ. Those who learn in the B model are taught by the students who study the B+ model by the intervention of certain associations, but those who stop at the model B are studied by the average of 100 percent. And this day is given, and we think it's not acceptable. That's why we proposed to make a plan, so that all those students who learn by day's rhyme should receive the least signs of support in class, as the law says. And lastly, we have proposed, in order to continue to make the work-world euphorate, measures and means also. "Dual?" () As soon as it is introduced into the sphere of euphorium and work, and as it is given in Hezik, the practice of the first year has begun to apply and apply it, and there are some programs which, from the next and next year, will appear to us to be necessarily strengthened by the use of the euphorium and eupilla, that the euphorium must be taken, and that in this case the action must be developed. Like it's done by the Blue Forum, but that should be done by the Department and it should be opened. For behind all this, what we show to our youth and society in general is eternal; and it is an ordinary event, which is subject to the language that is in a state of minorized and digestia. And as a child and a young man, for the sake of reading, for the sake of playing, for the sake of playing, for the sake of talking, the little language, the choice that is to be done is to insist, but then in the world of grown-ups, in important things, it is our language here. And that's what we're showing accidentally, just like this data shows. DBHn, Batxelian, eucature, D model, but when we're talking about your future, we're going to work here, we're going to work here, we're in black, we're in the 'A' example, in eloquence. And I don't know how far we know this or not, but this is what we open to society. We can run a lot, but this is the joke we get in everyday. And this is what little languages suffer. And we have to turn this around. And to turn this around is what we're proposing here today. And we've been looking for the deal. We've been looking for a deal, and I think we've been able to get close to it, even though we didn't get it. It seems to me that we have a great deal to do still, because in this course the law of Education has a responsibility for itself, and that this government must have its end, but that we must live with it, and that we want to be in our business and in our daily conversation, we have a responsibility, and that we have a need to turn back to that responsibility. For the data necessarily shows that there is something more to be done. We cannot confine ourselves to that article which the law says, and that these details are necessary at the present day. And today was the purpose: Trying to bind the details. And though at the last moment something has moved, it seems to us that it was not enough. We are animated by the law which was adopted on the previous day in the law, and we shall see each other on the way to the execution of the law, but there is a task and a course. And today, as I said, we wanted to make an agreement, but it seems to us that the first thing that was proposed to us was not a sufficient correction. At the moment, some signs have come to the other arrangement, but we felt that we were going to increase the degree of consecration. And it seems to us that, well, there has been some lack of road. And we can't forget them, in that sense, about the D model plate, and there must be a protocol for escalating the D pattern's license plate-that is to say, precise. The orientation services at school must be something definite, and it seems to us that it should be a protocol, and we were prepared to accept a guide, but there should be a protocol. To make mention of the indispensable work-world, we think that when the department is at work for the first year, and when the practice begins at the beginning of the first year, and so far as it is more and more hours in business, it is necessary to consider this. And we saw that it was important to do this or that point. And, as I said, it wasn't possible, right? However, we encourage the government... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... To do this or that particular point. And, as I said, it wasn't possible, right? However, we encourage the Government to take steps in this way, as far as it goes, we shall be with them or with you. And, as I said, it's important for us to take steps in the world to look at eucalycination. There are some, and the Gipuian Fordubia, or Alddudia of Arai, is taking several steps in it, but it seemed important to us that the several measures should be made and strengthened. For, as I have said, what we finally show by this sophistry here is an important language, and it is necessary to take hold of all the squares. The Euscarese must take the profession, the council of administration must take the eucalyptus, the parliament, and be normalized to the eucalyptic and its normalised use. We must cease to be fools, we want to be striped like all others, and all other languages in the world; and to-day-it is not given. And here, for some, the normalizations of language seem to end in education with the persistence of education, and these natural euphorations and the presence of eucalyptus in society, as the flower follows. And the administration has to take measures. And here we see that it is not enough to make up for the Esquilling of the Eascal, in those parts, in which the Batxigoeta DBHn −, which prevails in the −, that it does not come in the natural way, in this case, to the works of Hez. And there's departmental leaders, departments, and funk all over the place. And those are the measurements we've been proposing today. I thank you, and I thank Podemos that it was easy for him to agree, and I thank him for having signed the middle course of his journey. We, on the other hand, wanted to discuss the 27th article of the Civil Law of Education, and we wanted to have more company with it. We didn't make it. See you on the way. We're ready to go on cooking and cook. We like the kitchen, and before we come here, we'll be ready to cook the next time, maybe better. As I said today, we've brought this on our schedule, and it won't be the last time, and from now on we'll announce the steps of the Commercial Education and bring them back. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u40	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Chaus Group, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing vocational training today. And it is always good news that we do, because sometimes we give vocational training less attention than it deserves. And it's an educational segment that includes nothing more and nothing less than 47,000 students and more than 5,000 teachers. But we regret that today's debate is not focused on ideas to improve the quality of VET, to improve its results or to see how we improve the work of teachers or the pedagogical quality or how we improve the employment integration ratios; but we are doing so, we are debating how we increase the level of Basque. This shows what matters to each political group, and it is clear that what matters to Bildu about vocational training is that he speaks Basque. Then, whether students learn or not, whether they are satisfied with the training received, whether the pedagogical model is the right one or not, whether it achieves job integration or not, all that happens to a second place, or simply doesn't matter anything. In other words, for Bildu vocational training only seems to be one more instrument of euskaldunisation of the population. So, without anesthesia, without disguise and without blushing. The rest of the problems of vocational training have not earned a single point of their initiative. And in order to make clear our position from the outset on this subject, I insist that we agree that we must support Basque, vocational training and the rest of the fields; that we think it is very good that everyone who wants to study in Basque should be able to do so, as is already the case today. But with complete freedom. Because we will continue to clearly oppose all attempts to impose euskera, to force people in one way or another to speak in euskera even if they do not want to, to put euskera with footwear and to use education to euskaldunize society. And I must thank the Bildu group that with this initiative has shown that what we have been saying for years is true: that the aim of the nationalist parties is to put education at the service of the Euskaldunization; in this case, of the Vocational Training. This is clear from the last point of the GNP: that it expand the measures and means to continue to euskaldunize the world of work. I should also like to thank you for documenting without modesty what the Education Adviser has been denying for a long time, that enrolment campaigns are being used to force enrolment in model D. It is clear from point 2: that in order for the student to enroll in Basque, to develop and send to the guidance services of the centres and to the FP addresses a protocol containing the suitability to strengthen such enrolment. I think you have made, Mr Iriarte, an exercise in moderation by including the "re" particle in the word reinforce. That is to say, pressure is placed on the centres' addresses and guidance services to force enrollment in Basque. That's what white on black says. And it says so clearly because it does not escape, like us, that this has been the mechanism through which it has been possible to impose model B, model D, forgiveness, in all education. We all know that nationalist parties have been practicing these techniques for the past decades, until they have managed to de facto eliminate model A in primary and secondary education. Although it has to be recognized that these techniques are often made in a slightly more sibilian way in the hands of the PNV. And the initiative explicitly recognizes the purpose of all of this. To the end, he says, the student enrolls in Basque. In other words, the end of the FP is that the student runs the cycles in Basque to continue to euskaldunize education and the world of work. And the end is not training itself to have the best professionals as prepared as possible for their integration into the world of work... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and the end is not training itself to have the best professionals as prepared as possible for their integration into the world of work. And the current initiative aims to draw attention to the fact that this mechanism is not functioning in the same way in the FP, and what is called for is for its implementation to be stepped up and for it to be done more firmly. This shows that the current growing enrolments in model D are not the result of the freedom of choice of parents, as repeatedly defended by the Basque Government, but are the result of a mechanism of guidance and enrolment that forces freedom to choose the language. That is, this initiative is the perfect portrait of what has been done for decades with education and Basque society. And so, then what happens to us happens to us; on the one hand, we accumulate a growing social rejection towards the Basque country, and, on the other, we accumulate very low academic results. The truth is that the initiative we are discussing today is plagued with pearls. One of its most striking phrases says "having in model D 71% of the ESO network and 65% of that of Baccalaureate", he says, "it is not acceptable that in Vocational Training model D is limited to 21,5, while in the purely Castilian model it is 58,8". I find these three words fantastic: "it is not admissible". Isn't that admissible for who? Why isn't it admissible? I guess, Mr. Iriarte, you mean you don't like the data. But, of course, the data you do not like is not admissible. I mean, no one should admit them. You show a certain tendency, we would say genetic, to be intransigent with everything that you subjectively do not consider admissible. Well, look, I don't like the fact that 98% of public schools in Euskadi don't have model A. And even if I don't like it, I do think it's admissible, because I don't intend to impose my opinion on anyone. That is why we try to be consistent, and just as we ask that model A be offered in compulsory education, we also advocate that whoever wants to study in Basque his cycle of FP can do so. Therefore, the measures for the implementation and extension of models B and D in FP seem to us to be correct as long as it is on equal terms with A. What does not seem right to us is the affirmative policies of model D to force. Vocational training is very important, because it is the gateway to the world of work for thousands of students. What is our role as public representatives on this issue? Do you force the euskera or make the best tools available to them to make their formation in the best possible way and make life easier for them? We are in the second, and for those who believe that the best way to carry out their training is in Basque we believe that we must provide them with the channel to do so. But also, whoever wants to do it in Spanish must be able to do it without coercion and pressure. The FP has a finalist character. And that means that the important thing is to make sure that students acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for the performance of a job in the world of work. And we agree that, among this knowledge, languages have an important role, and among them especially Basque and English. But for this purpose it is not understood that it is intended to force certain subjects to be given necessarily in Basque; although it is understood that the objective, in fact, is another: that of the forced euskaldunization of the population. Measures like this, we always say, are counterproductive to the Basque. The imposition makes it unpleasant, when we should consider it a treasure. Because what will you think about the euskera who wants to do a cycle to train for a job in which you will not be required to euskera? And he doesn't know it, and you have several subjects in euskera within model A? That is why we propose three things. First, that the student's enrollment campaign for course 22-23 offers the same consideration to all language models in which each training cycle can be carried out, without promoting the suitability of one another. Two, that does not put vocational training at the service of the Euskaldunisation, but that places in the center the training of the students for their insertion in the world of work in the best conditions. And three, not to intervene from the public authorities the labour market from a linguistic point of view, respecting the richness of our two official languages and the importance of foreign languages for the performance of more and more jobs. In short: respect, respect for the two official languages; respect for the will of each person to speak and educate himself in the language he considers appropriate and respect for the centres and teachers so as not to condition the quality of teaching to other purely political objectives. It is regrettable to have to be from this rostrum asking for something as basic as respect for the continuing attacks of initiatives such as this, which seek to force the freedom of the population in relation to languages. But, finally, it is the times that have touched us to live and it is the causes that have touched us to defend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u42	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. The theory of communicating vessels is the name that receives a set of containers filled with liquid and communicated to each other. It is a very simple principle: to the extent that you fill some glasses, the others, for continuity, are filling up to the same level. And so, if we add a certain amount of extra fluid, it will move to the following levels, thus maintaining the balance between all the vessels. Education has always been said that it is that liquid that fills us with knowledge and that we will later apply in our daily lives and in future courses. In these times when we are both debating education and the educational model, we cannot forget the fundamental work that has been carried out and carried out by Vocational Training in Euskadi. For many years, we have been very proud of the role played by Vocational Training in both society and at the educational and labour levels. And through this educational way, this way of learning, thousands of young people have found a vocation, and also a way of life. But in the Vocational Training in Basque, in model D, we have a dam that prevents students from continuing their studies in the language they have started... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... but in vocational training in Basque, in model D, we have a dam that prevents students from continuing their studies in the language that they have started or completed the first part of their schooling. As mentioned earlier, whereas in model D it currently accounts for 71% of the network in ESO and 66% in Bachelor's degree, in vocational training it accounts for only 21% of pupils. And that despite the fact that the student studying FP comes to a large extent from the school model. It is therefore clear that there is a lack of continuity in the educational process. It is also paradoxical that in Euskadi, where 820 vocational training courses are offered, only 170 courses are offered exclusively in Basque, leaving this figure very relegated compared to the 460 offered in model A, exclusively in Spanish. I would also like to point out that more than 50% of the supply of training is from private concerted centres. It should also be noted that this year in the pupils of public-sector institutions they have chosen model D for their studies in 30% of the enrolments. This is significantly higher than those who choose model D in private or concerted centres. And if we put the B and D models together, in public ownership centres they exceed 50%. We said it in the last legislature when we voted against the Vocational Training Act and we repeat it again here today, we bet on public education as a backbone of the education system. And, as in ESO, we continue to believe and firmly believe that public vocational training is also a guarantee of Euskalduna vocational training. I think that we do have to reflect on why the student who in his first formation performs it in Basque and has the linguistic knowledge ends up choosing as the second formation exclusively the Castilian. And I'm sure there are many factors that determine one and the other option. I, who have been quite a bad student in Basque despite my many efforts, do believe, as point four of this GNP points out, that we have to... In some ways it is necessary to include the subject of Basque, obviously adapting it both to the possibilities of the centre and to the needs of the student present and future. Acquiring and strengthening language skills are also important for the student's future work. It is important that we continue teaching in Basque at the following educational stages, beyond school, both in universities and in vocational training. It makes little sense to encourage the teaching of Basque in classrooms, in school, if we do not give it a future continuity. This is highlighted by the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy itself in its Plan for the Promotion of Euskera in the Socio-economic Area 2020-2023, which sets an improvement rate of 20%. That is why we believe that important communication work must be done from our parliamentary group. On the one hand, at the general advertising level, it is necessary for society to know that if it has been able to study the fact... ESO or you can study Bachelor's degree in Basque, you can also perform that option in vocational training. And we also believe that communication should be made on a personal level with students from the guidance departments, because it is not the same as one FP. And, for example, any student who makes an FP in the health field has to know the importance that the Basque will have this training in his future. If these reinforcement measures were not enough, these positive measures would also not be enough to increase that 20% of which the Strategic Plan is talking about, in the initiative we are discussing today it is also proposed to lower the ratio of pupils needed to form a class. This is not a new proposal either, as it also applies to the sporting world. And it is easily assumed for vocational training, with another parallel benefit: the more personalized attention will give better academic results. In conclusion, throughout this journey the reflection of the euskaldunisation of vocational training will have a reflection in the world of work. And we believe from our political group that it is time to add that extra liquid to that... that additional knowledge, to the glass of vocational training and to break that barrier between ESO and FP. In this way, both companies and workers, in a natural way, will benefit from learning. (Besterik gabe?) Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I have to say I'm a little surprised that Bildu intends to generate a polemic about the euskera in the FP when we're talking about a law that barely comes into effect four years ago. It was 2018 when we passed the law. There has not even been time to make a reasonable assessment in time of how it has worked. Especially in an education like this, that of vocational training, which is aimed at a very specific and concrete student sector, which probably moves with interests and motivations different from that of the rest of the education system. And we are also talking about Basque vocational training, which we have to recognise is a benchmark in the European environment and that quality indices are probably in the highest acceptance rankings by Basque citizens. What the Executive has done is to deepen the internationalization of the Basque VET system, especially in exchange programmes between teachers and students, and, of course, without forgetting the Basque language. The department wants to extend the implementation of the bilingual model of Basque and Spanish, model B, in some classrooms that mostly today, it is true, teach in Spanish. It also indicates that it is imperative to extend the knowledge of English in vocational training, something that is not mentioned in the initiative. And that when we were talking about insertion and professional qualification, English is a tremendously important topic. Improving the employability of people in both the short and long term requires new strategies and mechanisms. On the one hand, increasing the hours devoted to the acquisition of competition as the way to achieve the highest degree of specialization. On the other hand... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... on the one hand, increasing the hours devoted to the acquisition of competition as the way to achieve the highest degree of specialization. On the other hand, the demand for women workers with training and skills that are in line with the current competitive environment requires that they evolve from a training model oriented towards a job-oriented model focused on the professional field. A paradigm shift that places the person at the centre, promoting the acquisition of skills, techniques - personal and social - that guarantee the necessary versatility and functionality. And we face a challenge, it is true, for the organizational structure and competitiveness of companies, and, above all, for the most important, which determines that students go to FP for the employability of people. At a time with high levels of unemployment, such as the current one. Mr Iriarte has brought us here a graph, in less crude terms, on how the percentage of students who have been in vocational training in the different language models has evolved. I'll give them more complete. Between the years 2018 and 2022, the students who have studied model A have descended from the 25,114 of the year 2018, to the 23,709 in 2022. That is to say, a loss of 1,405 pupils in this model, which represents a percentage decrease of 5,59 %. In model B, in the same period, students have increased by 2,366. That is, an increase of 35,12 %. And those in the model have increased by 1,645 pupils, with an increase rate of 19.64 %. So, there's no static photo. There has been an evolution, since this new law was passed in 2018 until today. We can discuss the intensity of this evolution. What cannot be said or denied is that evolution exists. That is why in our amendment we bet to continue to expand the educational offer in Basque, the Vocational Training, as established by law: by expanding model D, and by progressively and planned implementing bilingual model B aimed at strengthening learning and professionalization in Basque, as well as promoting the inclusion of subjects taught in Basque model A. And not to forget the English. Promoting different actions of information, guidance and communication that reinforce the knowledge of these models in the student who is going to take the training cycles. It seems that it was a perfectly reasonable amendment, picking up that positive and possible spirit with which Mr Iriarte began his speech. And that, unfortunately, has not made it possible for an agreement to be reached. And we believe that this amendment, which we are presenting, adequately responds to the specific reality of vocational training. Because it is specific, it is not equivalent to that of the rest of the education system, with the aim of both improving the knowledge of our language and ensuring the highest quality and effectiveness in the transmission of knowledge. With a fundamental objective, which is with which Basque students go to FP: their employability, and get the best possible job. Those two worlds are the ones that are trying to address this Law of Vocational Training, which, as I say, is relatively recent, it is only 2018. And that is why, I mean, I want to take advantage of that availability of the agreement, so that in the future it can be possible. But it seems to us that the amendment tabled by us, nationalists and socialists, responds much better to the reality of Basque vocational training.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u46	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, congressmans. Good morning, everyone. To-day the action of the entourage begins to say: "The Education of Art, Biscay, and Gipuzian Office is excellent for the purpose." No. It's an excellent profession in the Esucanian Corporation, and that's a confession. What I'm going to say as usual is self-cococlacy. But that is admitted among nations. And he's keeping it up in excellence. If, by increasing excellence, it is possible to add it, and it is by no means easy to follow it in perfection. It is as difficult or more difficult or as difficult as to get to perfection sometimes. He continues to say: "by the complication of his professionals that he's a rebel among the nations." Yes, but not just for that. We have excellent professionals in the Hezic professions. As we have in other parts of education, we have not reached the same degree of excellence. In short, there are many more characters to be added. On the one hand, the excellence of professionals, even of the manager. But, above all, I shall mention the climate of the education of profession and of the education of our profession in recent years, which has often shaken the strategies of many political and social agents, because they have been here for years, and now almost as mantra in the political policy. A mantra word, all neighborhood work, all professionals, between managers. And not as in other parts of −heczeces, contrary to the public compact, the compact against the public, and other ways of fighting and conflict. What he shows is not the way to fight, but that the way is the work of the struggle. He also continues to say that excellence must reply to pedagogical and linguistic areas beyond technical standards. And he answers them. It can hardly be great unless it is answered to pedagogical references among the nations. After all, the excellence... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... it may be that among nations, if they are not answered by pedagogical differences. In short, one of the attributes in the heart of excellence, because it is pedagogical. And we come to the ligenistic area. I remember four or five years ago, when we were working on the Education Act. Then what we already confessed was the reality, and it is about euphorication that there is a rift, that there is a difference between the Education and other parts of the Education and Education. But here, Mr. Pastor has advanced some data. I've got my part, too, my scheme. He mentioned them and they're the same. But for a new contribution of a percentage to what Mr. Pastor has said: From the year 2018-2019 to 2021-2022, the model A was 62%, today it's 55 percent, and B and D were 37%, and today it's 44%. The other thing is how data is read often. For if they take some, the example B is not the pattern of euphorion, and B plus or minus or whatever it is, it does not resist, we leave it only to resist the example of D. Which gives us 23%. But I think that's not really the right picture of reality. And that's what you have to do between the B and the D patterns, which has been passed from 37% to 44 percent. What does that show? Well, contrary to what is said in this other law, the aphergative policies of resistance are realized. And, in fact, the 2018 Law has been an excellent handle to that. And the first line of the Hezic strategy is that the eucalyptus is already established. It is true, in this first line, it is not the only variable established for euphorum, but the latter, as was acknowledged in the law. And, well, you have to admit the situation. Yes, it's true there's still a crack. On the one hand, there are some things you don't want to touch. But for the Education integration of the profession... It is a special instrument for the integration of immigrants, and language of immigrants is reality too. And then there's the cracks that come up. Those who come from DBH and go to the Education of Professions. And there, yes, it's true, the perception about the world of work... That perception is much conditioned by the choice men make. But here, what was proposed in this respect was to make a campaign. We think campaigns can contribute. But the campaigns are limited and limited, and have their limits. In this respect, therefore, we mentioned it at the second point of our correction: Keeping information, orientation and communication actions so that students will be able to recognize them better. On the one hand, better because this knowledge is very important. Because sometimes it seems that if you're doing your homework, you're not supposed to be involved in a young man's work. And he who studies for the sake of eucalyptus, is far better off to enter the young man's work into the world than to enter into the world of eucalyptic work which is a minority, but which exists. Then, in order to know this better, and in the second, because the pupil, who is often spoken of by these information, orientation, and communications, would be placed in the centre. It is also mentioned, that the measure and means of preserving the world from eroscalizing it must be employed. All right, but what we can't do is put that weight at the expense of the Education of the profession. Because that requires a lot more collective commitment. And what he can do is his job. What's his job? Profesional begets, encourages, draws. Profesional being more euphoric, at least in the hope that we shall have more chance of euphorating the world. But to put all the weight into the Heltian professions, it is probably not just, and not the most practical. As I say, that requires a collective commitment. And then I'll make another comment on it from the correction described by Podemos together. I would like - as I have a couple of minutes still - to make some comment on the whole amendment made by the People's Party. Mr Gil says that all language models have the same consideration, and that the suitability of one another is not promoted. I do not believe that the suitability of one over another is promoted. Moreover, the degrees of excellence we have reached have been made by the hand of a model... mostly in a model A. This does not mean that in model D we could not be equally excellent. It is not a question of suitability, it is a question of the real idea of bilingualism which must govern, and which, as a principle, we are all in agreement with which it must govern in the country. And lately I've heard a lot about real and free bilingualism. I agree. But because bilingualism should be able to be carried out freely. But in order to be free, bilingualism must be real, not diglossic. And in order for bilingualism to be real, just as 100% of the population is able to express itself in Spanish, 100% should be able to express itself in Basque, and carry out a real bilingualism, which leads everyone to express themselves freely and to have respect, respect and respect for their choice. But for that we need policies of euskaldunization. Look, I thought at first that I had committed... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ...respect and respect your choice. But for that we need policies of euskaldunization. Look, I thought at first you committed a little lapsus, but according to what you said, it seems not. Because in his second point he said that "not to put the Euskaldunization at the service of the Vocational Training". I believed that what I meant was not to put Vocational Training at the service of Euskaldunization. I do not know whether it is a lapsus or not, but, in any case, why is Euskaldunisation not also being put at the service of Vocational Training? This does not at all diminish the integration into the world of work or do so in the best conditions. No, no, The one doesn't condition the other. Because, of course, that's part of an idea, of an equation that I personally don't admit, and, well, our group doesn't accept. And it's the fact that, it's always exemplified by the same example, which says what do you, a good doctor or a euskaldun doctor prefer? Hey, a euskaldun doctor can be excellent, bad, well, regular, like a non-euskaldun doctor can be excellent, bad, good or regular. So, what it is clear is to do it in the best conditions. But from the tenor of what you put in your second point it seems that the best conditions will always have to be in Spanish. Which...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u48	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u49	Bai, oraintxe bertan. Which doesn't respect the wealth of the two official languages you speak of, and I don't think it responds to reality. I'll talk to you about Ppodemos' correction in the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The one who hasn't issued any corrections, Mistto's not here. In answer turn, representative of the EHG team, Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u51	Mr. Gil, you weren't going to get into quite absurd discussions. "Training programmes of Vocational Training shall ensure the continuity of the language treatment established in Secondary Education and shall take the necessary measures to avoid in the transition to Personal Training the disruption in the exercise of the linguistic options exercised in the previous stages". His group, well, the People's Party, voted in favour. What we are asking is that that law that part of your group, the vast majority of your group, voted for be complied with. Okay? So, don't see ghosts out there or anything, what we're asking is that what they voted to be fulfilled. On the other hand, you've said a lot of things, and I didn't intend to go up to the tone, but it's not true in bilinguism. And the data Mr. Pastor has been given, yes, there are ways of reading the data, and in 2015 there were 28,000 students in the A model, and in 2022, it's true, 25,500. We got the data through the Board of Education. I mean, in the number of students there was a descent. But in B, he went up 858 to 8800, more than 8000 students. But here's a little trap, because in the B pattern we enter B+ and we can't tell them about the B model. what example B is not bilinguism in the Hezics. That is to say, in example B, it is not at the moment learned in the obligatory education, half a eucalyptic and half a youth. No. Pattern B (...) in B+, several lessons are given in that model B which we all understand, but which we include in the model B, all the students who enter that bag have not half and half, are not in the B+ model. So even when we give data, we make a little trap. For example A has descended, B has swelled; but in this example B many and many do not hear it yet. And the D model goes from 8.500 to 9.400 in 2022, but the general number of students in 1915 was 38,000 students in Education, and today it's 44.000. You can see that. So, yes, if there's a growth, but growth doesn't seem to be in global numbers, those happy data you say. And in answer to the gentleman from afar, he would certainly be excellent. Through excellence and neighbouringness, but as much as this subject is fostered, we shall also attain excellence to the eucalypation. And I agree that the Spanish Act has been accepted and that you have been asked to do it since the first year, and that we have advanced. That is to say, the Education of Profession has shown that he has the ability in the neighbourhood, and because he has strong equipment and has a lot of people ready and active for him, he can still move forward. The department, not only the people, but the department, the direction of the department, the political direction, as well as the management of the department, has done it, and as the department has excited other departments, we demand that we promote it too. What cracks are there, but the cracks are... You said immigrants. It's 92% of the basic professions in Hezics. I have given general facts-that is to say, the data of the higher and fundamental patterns, but that the crack is bigger, of course. I mean the immigrants, because the immigrants usually jump to the basic Professions, then progress a lot, but that's the model A 92%, and B is the model %1,18. And it is plain that the making of the world of business is not only a businessman, but in the Hectic professions, the Disciples of the Hectic professions, they introduce more and more hours of labour into the sphere of labour, business, offices. And the practice which they practise in these, chiefly in the present day, they do it with contempt, because necessarily the world of labour is not ripened. And we insist that the world, the business world, the industry, the offices are connected with the Education, and we agree that there are strategies in it, but that relationship is also to be effected. And then not only from Hezic, but also from Education. And that's why we thought it was important to make that mention. We think you have to go, that we have the strength of the government, and that the government has to do it. And these trapped numbers, that is to say, the D and B patterns are to be given in the example of division and data. What only are those who learn about the cradle, and what are real, what we understand, and what decrees, what language decree says, half an example B and... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...that a division and data must be given clear. What alone are those who learn, and what are true, we understand, and what are decrees, the decree of language said, in this model of education B half and middle, because they are not all. To say this, and with the hope that we shall see each other in the future, in the way of this eucalycation, I salute. But, well, in the next year or in the next political course we'll have this subject back on the table. Now, however, it seems to us that, as the time of premeditation, the occasion cannot be lost in the government, so as to give new steps in the promotion of the D model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u52	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Well, look, Mr. Iriarte, I too would like not to have to be at this point debating absurd things, but it has touched us. And I didn't bring this, did I? You continue to confuse - and it gives me the impression that it is not innocent - the right to speak Basque with the obligation to speak Basque. Because, let's see if I haven't heard, is there anyone in Euskadi who wants to study FP in Basque and can't? No, no, I mean, that's not the problem. The problem is another: you want to have to study Basque, whether you want it or not. And you are right that, in fact, that law was passed by the People's Party. But that law was passed with the guarantee of freedom, and its proposal goes far beyond that law. Anyway. Mr Urrutia, let me see if I understand your proposal: firstly, it is about forcing us all to learn Basque, whether we want it or not, and then, from there, now, whether there will be freedom to speak it or not? Is this the idea? Because I didn't get it the same way. Anyway. With regard to the amendment of PNV and PSOE, beyond the classical structure of continuing to drive and other calculated ambiguities, it seems to us questionable the inclusion of subjects taught in Basque in model A; it sounds to "as much as you choose model A, of Basque you do not get rid of". Because we are not talking about a subject in Basque, which would seem good to us, but about subjects in Basque, with which we again force freedom of choice of language. With regard to the promotion of information, guidance and knowledge actions so that before deciding the students have more information about the three models, it seems to us that this is the right thing to do, if it is done objectively and without forcing the choice. With regard to the Podemos amendment and the transaction that you have signed, we see that it is a literal copy of what Bildu had submitted, which means that nothing seems wrong with what appeared in this one. And it also means that you have nothing to contribute from your own harvest, so we see. They have acted as a clone of Bildu, renouncing no input, nuance or negotiation process. Moreover, you had provided in your proposal two small sentences that have disappeared again in the transaction. It is evident that assimilation, absorption and identification is already total with Bildu. Well, obviously, we will vote no to the two amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together Podemos-Nozzle won't speak. Basque Socialist won't speak. The eubertarians, yes, sir, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. On the one hand, Mr. Irart, I'm not going to raise the tone of the discussion, even though I may say that the data is a cheat, I'd probably be able to say the same thing about your data. For surely, since you've got them from the department, I've got them like that, and they're the data I've been given them to me, and I've mentioned them before. The D model is swollen too, and I've done it for four years, 19%, and Mr. Pastor has mentioned it in quantum data. And otherwise, well, we have plenty to do, we have a responsibility, and we all have the responsibility, but I don't accept that learning to the cradle is not guaranteed in the Heltian professions. And it's guaranteed. And if they go on, it's as if they're slower than some of them would like to be. But, by all means, I'm staying with one thing of your two words in the blackmail: You like the kitchen you mentioned and so do you. So let's cook the things that have to be cooked. Mr. Gil, look, the guarantee of freedom is guaranteed. And it was guaranteed when the Vocational Training Act was passed, and his colleagues in the previous legislature told me personally on more than one occasion. And I don't tell you there's an obligation to learn Basque, no, because the facts show there isn't. If in 40 years with all the language policies there had been the obligation, we did not get 100%, so we would have done it really wrong. But, it is that, obligation has not existed, so that I do not turn the lamb into a wolf and the wolf into a lamb. Because here what can happen is -- and it happens -- there are people who want to sign up for a module, a cycle in Basque, and they can't because the class doesn't come out, because... for whatever reason. On the other hand, that doesn't happen in Spanish, Mr. Gil. No, it doesn't. Therefore, this idea that it is forced, this idea that it seems that the hegemonic, the one that imposes, such, is the euskera, I think it is obvious that it does not respond to reality. And the last two minutes together in Podemos... Jesus, I didn't take this. I'm sorry. I'd like you to submit to Podemus' correction together... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Excuse me. I'd like you to apply to Podemus' correction together. Look, don't be offended by Mr.− and Gil here about something, but don't be offended with him, but often it's not the first time that you've had a youthful translation service in the gathering initiative. That's what they look like. In five points, they were four identical ones, word for word, and one is more distinct. Sometimes you just give an attachment to the gathering. Number two. Look, and for a little bit of reflection that I've done earlier, about the eucalogy of the work-world. It is not right, and it is not practical to put all this burden into the Heltian professions. Education should, of course, produce eucalyptic professionals, and this ought to lead us to become the means of euphorating the work-world. Yeah, that's the work of the Education. It's going to be the government's work, it's going to have to do more things, more measures, more resources, and probably we all have a lot of influence on us. But, klaro, I've been looking for your correction, and, at the fifth point of your correction, where do you say... For it is said: "El Parlamento insta al Gobierno Vasco a que: 5th "Amplíe las medicas y Means para seguir Euscaldicito el mundo laboro, tant en pro vertente comente comunicatina." I think that must be a collective commitment: When we say of Education, of Government, that which ought to go far beyond political authority, and that we have frequently an engagement with the Basques, and an explanation of what each individual ought to do. And surely we all have a great deal of improvement in it, but, clarro, look for your correction: the young man is in nothing. Why don't you start from euscalating your work world? It'd be an opportunity, a good step, a big one, important one, wouldn't it? That's the rarest thing to do with chimpanzees. And this isn't a charge, I'd have done Vox in his case, because I don't write and sign anything like that, but you've put this on. Start yourselves. Start yourselves, and perhaps we shall all succeed in keeping the work-world. I'll tell you in the words of one of your fools: "Sí se puede, sí se puede." Well, because it's possible, do it. Now get started. You've got a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. End of discussion, we'll vote for the EH Collect and together the middle-direction that Podemos Edemos-Nozer has signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters, 26; the opponents, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u57	Not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 67; abstainations, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u58	Not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists-Euz patriots. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 40; the contrary, 27; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u59	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced together by Jon Hernández Hidaldo, members of the Podemos-IU team, concerning abolishing the extraordinary hours, and creating new employments. Discipline and final resolution. The call of the proposed team, Mr. Hernandez has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u60	Mrs. head of the table, thank you. Legebiltzarkideok, I would like to share a historic photo in the House today. It's a historical photo on a banner, I know some don't like it too much to get banners out in parliaments, but it's a historical photo where a banner comes out where it says: Eight hours to work, eight hours to play, eight hours to sleep. It is a sign requiring the maximum working day of eight hours per day, a photo taken in Melbourne in 1856, i.e. more than a century and a half ago. It was precisely the demand for an eight-hour working day that also gave rise to the workers' conflict in Chicago 30 years later, in 1886, ended with the execution of those known as the martyrs of Chicago, and which was the origin of the Working Class Day that we will celebrate next Sunday, May 1. More than a century and a half of struggle for a decent work day. Too much blood spilled in the struggle for the conquest of decent working days, so as not to take seriously the fulfillment of the eight-hour workday that today is inextricably unfulfilled for so many and so many workers... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... seriously the fulfillment of the eight-hour workday that today is inextricably unfulfilled for so many and so many workers in our country through the obligation and pressure of workers to do overtime, many of them absolutely illegal. For this reason, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we proposed, today we propose to the Basque Parliament an initiative for a better fight by the institutions against overtime in our country, which are a tool of fraud to this formal conquest of the eight-hour working day. A conquest that, in our case, was formally achieved 103 years ago after an important workers' struggle initiated in the La Canadien electric company in Barcelona, and that with the sacrifice of many and many workers who ended up, by the way, imprisoned in the Montjüich dungeons, they managed to formally approve in our country the maximum eight-hour day per law, being our country one of the first to do so after Mexico and the Soviet Union. But this right, embodied today in the current Workers' Statute, must be guaranteed and defended every day in the face of the constant failure to comply with it. Firstly, on the part of the workers, who do so through the trade unions, their class unions in the workplaces themselves, but secondly, by the Basque Government, which has to pursue a determined policy of combating this scourge, which involves not only the precariousness of working conditions, but also a wall for the creation of new jobs and, therefore, the reduction of unemployment rates. Today we have brought this initiative for the fight against overtime, and an agreement has been reached, a good agreement. I would therefore like to thank, first of all, the groups with which we have negotiated and agreed on this GNP, the Basque Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and the EH Bildu Group for their willingness to reach an agreement with concrete content for an initiative, for a non-law proposal, which, although it does not reflect all the proposals we had in our original initiative, I have to say that I believe it is a good non-law proposal for the fight against overtime. And, of course, today our group is satisfied with the joint work that has been done, and the result, because we believe that it is an initiative that, first of all, clearly places a political position on the part of the Basque Parliament against overtime; it is the Basque Parliament that the reduction in the number of overtime worked in the Basque companies is a positive and necessary way to create employment, to improve working conditions, to reduce the wage gap between women and men, to facilitate the reconciliation and co-responsibility of care, and it is also the Parliament that the control and sanction of illegal overtime is essential, because they destroy employment, precarious the working and living conditions of women workers and workers, and constitute fraud on the whole of society. Moreover, we say from the Basque Parliament with this agreement that create unacceptable situations of labour exploitation. Secondly, because the initiative we have agreed also mandates the Basque Government to redouble its work in the fight against overtime. And it does so by including different areas, not only that of labour inspection, labour inspection actions, control in public contracts and contracts, and also in the field of new realities, such as telework, where a crack has been generated or is being generated, exploited by some companies to force workers to extend their working hours. (?) It is important because it is necessary, in our opinion, and we are glad that it has also been shared by the groups supporting the Government, it is necessary to step up action against overtime, because at the moment, according to the data of the department itself, the latest ones published on the web, of the total number of subjects investigated in relation to the specific subject of labour relations, 0.6% are on overtime, and yet they account for almost 5% of the fraud and non-compliance with labour legislation detected in those same investigations. On the other hand, 34 % of the infringements detected in the field of labour relations have to do with working hours, when the proceedings are 6 % of the total. That is to say, there is a gap between the weight of the actions and the weight of the infringements, and this shows that there is a journey to be made in investigating and following up on what happens to working days, and in particular with overtime to reduce the existing fraud. The initiative, as I said, does not include everything we proposed, but we believe it is a good initiative. We think it reflects the spirit of something that we have been defending in this Parliament also in the previous parliamentary term, and it is that the minimum objective of a government and a labour department that wants to defend the interests of the working class, cannot be other than zero permissibility with illegal overtime, but also with the struggle for the reduction of statutory overtime. As you know, overtime involves, first of all, the precariousness of working conditions and the quality of life of workers who are forced to do so. And I say forced, because we know that in most cases, they are obliged, because although the legal overtime is voluntary according to the Workers' Statute, we know that most cases are not really done voluntarily, because even when the workers we accept many times, and I speak in the first person, because of course I am the first one that I have done it, we agree to do overtime, even illegal, and I say "accept" in quotes, we do it because we are forced by different circumstances, for fear of losing the job if it is not done, if it is not said that yes; for fear of being pointed out by the boss... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... circumstances, for fear of losing the job if it is not done, if it is not said to be done; for fear of being pointed out by the boss, or even by comrades - we have to say it -; for economic necessity, sometimes in the face of insufficient wages, or, simply, often out of responsibility, because many workers know that if they do not do those hours work is left unworked, with consequences also for the company. And this is because these companies are using jobs, not creating jobs for tasks that would be structural, covering them with working hours of other workers. We therefore think that there is work to be done in this regard. And secondly, overtime is an obstacle to a society in which the care and sustainability of decent lives have a relevant place. They are an absolute obstacle to co-responsibility and therefore to the real equality between women and men that we are so much talking about in this Parliament. Overtime is absolutely contrary to any policy of equality which is to be pursued; therefore, it must also be combated from this point of view. And also overtime has negative consequences for the working class as a whole, because its realization prevents the creation of thousands of jobs each year. We can discuss how many jobs would be created; we already listened to the counselor, who did not fully share our statements, which were based on the estimates of the unions. But there is one thing that is clear, and in which I believe, I hope that we agree: the reduction of overtime undoubtedly leads to the creation of jobs. We therefore believe that several thousand jobs will no longer be created each year in Euskadi due to the realization of these overtime hours. Many companies find it cheaper to extend the working hours of the workers they have. Overtime is therefore totally contrary to what is often said about more and better employment. We would also like to point out that a significant part of the overtime that is carried out is not declared and, therefore, is not quoted. This, in addition to being illegal, is a real mass fraud against Social Security, which results in the loss of resources for unemployment benefits, disability benefits or the pension fund. The initiative adopted today by the Basque Parliament also mandates the Basque Government to combat overtime on a diagnosis: a diagnosis based on existing data. It is an issue that was important to our group, because knowing the reality of overtime is something that is necessary to be more effective in the fight against overtime. How many overtime hours are done in Euskadi at the end of the year? We have estimates. How many exceed the legal maximum of 80 hours, i.e. how many are illegal? How many of these illegal hours are paid to the workers, and how many aren't paid? Do most of these hours respond to short-term business situations or are they repeated, and therefore structural? In what sectors is a greater number of illegal overtime produced? In what periods of the year? What are the categories most affected by this type of illegal hours? In our view, these are questions that the Government must ask in order to put forward a determined policy to combat overtime, especially illegal hours. We know that the answers are not easy, we know that we will not have the exact data, but we know that studying the knowledge of that reality will help a more effective fight against this scourge. When we asked the Government about overtime fraud in Euskadi, the Department of Labour and Employment recognizes the seriousness of the matter: it recognizes the existence of widespread fraud and serious consequences. But we also find that there is a need for greater, better in-depth knowledge of what is the reality of the abuse of overtime in our community. PNL therefore urges the Government to step up its efforts, but to do so on the basis of greater knowledge of this existing reality. Because, let's see, the Basque Government says it has the largest staff that has ever existed in the Labour Inspectorate. He also says that the inspectors we have in Euskadi are good professionals. And it says at the same time that overtime fraud is a very widespread practice. We agree with the three statements. And that shows that there are major shortcomings, and that there is therefore room for improvement on which action should be taken. The actions have to be based on a good knowledge of the reality of the world of work in Euskadi. All this is what we have come to promote from our coalition - from our group - today to the Basque Parliament, to focus on the fight against those overtime that are being developed, are being done in Euskadi and are being forced to do thousands of workers. The majority of Parliament has agreed on a positive initiative in the fight against overtime, and we are happy to do so, in order to counter that speech which we often hear from the employer, who complains a lot and constantly that many hours are lost because of what they call absenteeism, which includes job losses for health reasons. A loss of hours that is absolutely insignificant compared to the amount of overtime that is performed in Euskadi. It can't be that one of the most widespread phrases in many companies is the one I've heard for the first time when I started working in the road freight transport sector: "Here you know what time you enter but you don't know what time you leave." Today we ask the Basque Government for action, we also ask the social partners in collective bargaining, and we also show our support for a very important issue, the unions themselves, because we are aware that only through the organized struggle of the workers is it possible to make progress in these matters. That is why the people of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, of course, this Sunday we will be in the mobilizations of the working class with the unions, and I encourage everyone to do so as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Popular-Ciudados, Mr. Gil, your word is yours. [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, Euskal Group Popular-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u62	Thank you, Madam President. We can say that the motion we are debating today on the elimination of overtime in Basque companies is a classic that has been coming back every year for decades. Since 1996 we have found records of this fashion. It doesn't matter whether it ends with agreement or without agreement, which will probably come back next year too. Certainly because it is politically profitable for the formations that raise it. And it is curious to see how it is almost always adapted from other different but close themes that serve as garrison and that try to enhance its effect. Without going any further, the first half of the rapporteur's speech led to the question of the right to strike, the Labour Reform, the unambitious objective of employment or, as has just happened a moment ago, the denial of absenteeism. It is as if the topic of overtime itself did not have enough clutter to be raised exclusively. And it's that he doesn't actually have it. Because it is a debate which has already been repeated, which has not provided anything and which is full of incorrect statements. I am referring specifically to those who are splattering the motion we are debating today, which I am going to analyse because it is a cluster of misconceptions. And the proof of that is that most of them have corrected them in the transactional signed by the four nationalist parties. Point one states that the reduction of overtime is a necessary way to create employment. The reality is that they are two variables that have nothing to do with it. As you know, an extra hour must be paid at 1.75 of the ordinary hour. And, therefore, I don't see why a company will be interested in paying the hour almost twice as much and being able to pay an ordinary hour. So that's what they do to save money... When it's done, it's because there's no other remedy. Overtime hours are perfectly regulated by the regulations in force, which clearly state in which cases they can be used and in which cases they cannot be used. And they are an essential flexibility tool for the development of any business project. For example, let us imagine that this Parliament was an ordinary undertaking, which in some respects it is, as in the employment relationship that unites you with your support staff, and remember the full monograph of last Friday, which lasted until seven o'clock in the afternoon. If there was no flexibility and we all had to leave at the end of our working day or that of the support staff, the plenary could not have been completed. And doing those overtime hours didn't stop creating jobs, because under no circumstances would it have made sense to hire someone just to cover that situation. That is, in a company there are many circumstances that make it necessary to use overtime, for example to give them the right service to customers, even if they come out more expensive. And it is not possible to replace an experienced professional who knows perfectly well the functioning of his job by new people only for a few hours. This makes me a little embarrassed to have to explain it by being of pure common sense, but sometimes you see yourself in these situations. And then there is the situation of many people whose work is not regulated: managers, self-employed, qualified professionals or, without going any further, ourselves, parliamentarians. In these cases it is impossible to distinguish between regular and overtime hours. And, therefore, they can... We can be working 24 hours a day without incurring any illegality. Let us therefore stop demonizing overtime, trying to eliminate it and accusing it of all the ills of employment. Look, you are in the Government of Spain, the Nationalist Party supports you, the Socialist Party is in the Government of Spain and Bildu supports you. I mean, the four nationalist parties here have the ability to change things. Look, they declare overtime illegal if it really is so harmful and so bad for job creation and all the other things that have occurred to them. Do it directly. You can do it. Ask for it directly. Why do you ask the Basque Parliament to insist or declare things that you can correct? Well, look, the reality is you don't because you know that hours have an important role to play. Overtime provides a small flexibility mechanism that helps businesses to carry out their work and, as a result, can continue to generate wealth and employment. I mean, reality... Actually -- sorry -- the relationship between overtime and employment is contrary to what is being proposed. If there were no flexibility mechanism, some business projects would not be viable and employment would be resentful. On the second point of the initiative, you are talking not about overtime in general, but about undeclared and non-voluntary overtime, that is, illegal overtime. Let's call them by their name. And we, as we always agree that the law is being enforced, share that those overtime hours should not exist, are illegal. And if they exist, they must be immediately denounced and persecuted with all the weight of the law. And that's what you, us, the unions and anyone should do. But you're asking the Basque government... I'm forced to go out in his defense, but now they're big and they're defending themselves. But you are asking the Basque Government to ensure that those illegal overtime hours are eliminated. It is like asking the Basque Government or the Austro-Hungarian Government to ensure the elimination of offences against the ownership or non-payment of traffic fines. I am sorry, but I understand that the Basque Government cannot guarantee law enforcement by all citizens. What he can do is prosecute him and punish him in accordance with current legislation. And what would make sense is to put forward an initiative if you or someone considers that this is not being done properly. But not to guarantee that no one is going to break the law. At your third point, you abound in your fantasy, and you ask the government to submit a report on illegal hours in the autonomous community. Well, there are mechanisms to estimate them, as there are to estimate the rest of the crimes. But it won't stop being an estimate. Because if the Government is aware of a breach, rather than taking note of it in order to make a report, what it has to do is to report it immediately to the courts. And the fourth point is already aurora boreal, when they ask the Government to introduce into the conditions of recruitment the need to comply with the current law. Because that's what they're asking when they ask the companies hired to register the day... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... when requested by the Government to introduce into the conditions of recruitment the need to comply with the current law. Because that's what they're asking when they ask the companies hired to be required to register the day, which is already mandatory by default and without any express mention in the contracts. It is compulsory for these companies and for all other companies, as is the rest of the labour legislation applicable to them. In short, I understand that this is a bottom-of-the-box motion, and you have not updated much or analysed it in detail, and that is why we are going to oppose it directly, although I acknowledge that the transaction has corrected many of these things that appear here. However, it has surprised us that the initial motion does not mention the Labour Inspectorate, then it has appeared in the transactional, which is the body responsible for monitoring compliance with the law in this and other aspects, although it did occupy the attention of the (?) and the Employment Adviser, and indeed, as I said, appears in the transactional. And I think it is worth stopping for a moment on this issue, because she said, among other things, that the Inspectorate is working at 100%. Finally, I do not know whether the Government is fully aware of the situation of the Labour Inspectorate, but I will give you two facts that seem revealing to me. One of them is that you know, I suppose, that the labour inspectors do not have established working hours, so there is no way of knowing what their 100% is. And it would be interesting to count your hours simply of dedication. This is similar to the situation of parliamentarians, who do not have an established working day either. And, therefore, do you (?) a situation, which being legal, explains much of the endless days of some people, including myself, such as managers, self-employed people and others. In Euskadi we have, as you know, two work inspections, not one, two, working in parallel. We have the work inspection, therefore, duplicated, so, of course, the counselor the other day said we have many troops. Indeed, there is the Labour Inspectorate originating in the State, and there is the Inspectorate of the Autonomous Community. Both have the same inspection capabilities, but each depends on a different leader, and coordination is neither expected nor expected. Therefore, what we can do to improve law enforcement is to improve the management of the Labour Inspectorate, an aspect in which there is much room for improvement and which would result in greater effectiveness of the Labour Inspectorate. Therefore, our proposal is that the Basque Government periodically publish an updated report on the productivity of companies, showing the total overtime, together with all the other factors that influence the labour aspects of business competitiveness. And it is that the extra hours analyzed alone do not provide a complete picture of what happens in the companies, we need to broaden the focus, and understanding that the extra hours are another instrument that must be managed properly and legally, let us put in perspective the use of them in relation to their contribution to competitiveness, which is what does generate employment and wealth. Two, we call on the Basque Government to carry out an information campaign for companies on the situation in which they can legally use overtime, so that they are legally safe and that they know what they can do and what they can't, so that the use of that legal remedy is also optimized. I repeat, and if you consider that this should not be the case, remove them directly from the legislation, (?) all, and be consistent with what they say. Thirdly, we urge the Basque Government to improve the management and coordination of the two Labour Inspectorates currently operating in Euskadi in order to increase their operation in the service of businesses, workers and law enforcement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u63	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u64	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. The motive we discuss today proposes an illegal suppression of extraordinary hours as a tool for creating employment. According to this week's announcement, the rate of unemployment has been lowered, and even if the data has been accepted, we want to refer to three of them, too optimistic ratings. First, The Critique of Government is confirmed; That the purpose of unemployment is not a big goal. From the data, it is plain that there is room for more bold ends to be established. The second is getting little employment in a group of people over 45 years old, mostly women. The unemployment of these people is a chronic problem with the market. As Professor Joaqun Arriola has stated this week in the press, a worker who's been at the company for 25 years is fired and two more hires for the third of his salary, even though he doesn't have the same knowledge. And the third, and therefore we must remember again, that this decline of unemployment does not ensure that labor is worthy conditions, and that employment is of quality. As the chief physician says, the end is not merely to create employment, but to create a proper employment. There are some disturbing data that tells us that the growth of fixed jobs hides that half of the contracts are partial. Between them the regular contracts, the jobs that are not guaranteed to a decent salary, are the development of a selfnomous life. This is why the task which the Basque People introduced was so important that it was accepted in the legislature to be systematically used by the systematic indications of employment in public communication and in public communications. And together with what is planned on this motion, we must state that extraordinary hours of the law are more symptoms of the preparation and decriminator of employment. The extraordinary hours cost a great deal of employment, health, and social life. They make it impossible for them to do their work and their own self-compatible lives. In this sense, the purpose of ending with extraordinary illegal hours is to be inserted into the government's employment and public health stations. As the chief physician stated, the collective negotiation is also a proper tool for facing extraordinary hours. From that Illus, I want to remember that in the year of 1999, 22 years ago, when Confebask and a contract signed by all the unions, they've cleared off a special hours... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...that 22 years ago, Confebask and an agreement between all unions signed professions decided to eliminate extraordinary hours, except in exceptional cases. And these, in general, were to be calculated by time of rest. This treaty was concluded by the institutions of the public administration also, that it was granted to the public that he should set up his necessary plans and means for the maintenance of the treaty. Twenty-two years later, it's clear that Confebas didn't make much interest in the deal. But today, at the table of social conversation, there's no proposal for an end of extraordinary hours. On the other hand, Confebask has introduced this table the theme of absenceism as a big problem when the main problem is an exhibition, as the Eustatian data says, when extraordinary hours have gone up. According to the strategy, the job of quality is that which provides options for personal development, and also fosters a new balance between productive and refractory work. And all this is broken when extraordinary hours become the usual company tool for spring hours. We all know people who are obliged to perform extraordinary hours at the expense of their health, personal life, and family life. That means a lot of people work more hours than they want. On the other hand, other people who are suffering from a partial labor contract from an involuntary undergrowth would, especially − would like to increase the number of hours of their work. To all the foregoing, we must unite a reality that has been established in our society, consisting of all those who, despite working, are poor, at risk of poverty, inequality or social exclusion. Today, 16% of people receiving GIR are people with precarious jobs who supplement their low wages with GIR. The wage devaluation of recent years and the historical increase in the CPI - if not remedied - does not create a favourable context in the right direction either. Therefore, the policy for the elimination of illegal overtime must also be accompanied by a demand for higher wages in response to the cost of living, so that those who work do not need overtime to have a decent wage. Although, as we have seen, their collection is also not guaranteed. It should be noted that the demands for wage increases guaranteeing purchasing power and the distribution of wealth are part of the main demands of the Basque unions for this first May. Recognizing the complexity of controlling illegal overtime that forms part of the submerged economy, some of these abusive practices can be identified in specific sectors such as public works. As we have already pointed out on other occasions, the public administration must be a driving force and an example in the creation and promotion of quality employment. And today the conditions under which public works, paid with public money, are carried out are too often in precarious employment. In this Parliament, a few months ago, in a committee appearance, we had the opportunity to listen to two trade unionists who explained how 19-hour days are made in the work of the Donostia subway, and it was found that 35 workers accumulated more than 10,000 extra hours in ten months, which are not even paid or compensated. That is why we say that in public works the Administration has a great margin of improvement to end illegal overtime. On the other hand, we must also respond to the new realities, such as telework. Technological development and the proliferation of telework have contributed to the confusion between working time and leisure time being an increasingly common reality for many workers. And that is why we must also respond to these realities, in order to prevent them becoming new opportunities for job insecurity. And in view of this widespread picture of corporate non-compliance with the regulations on working hours, the mandatory registration of hours, which had a great corporate resistance, was launched in 2019. It is not that companies do not control the day - which they control - that they do not want such control and registration to be made available to the Labour Inspectorate and the trade union representation; all this in order to make it impossible to control overtime. It is clear that the data from Eustat that say that they have increased above all the overtime that is not paid suggests that the time check is not being carried out as it should in companies. And again we insist that it is necessary to give the means to the work of inspection to be more assured that the work agreed upon is to end with the fraud of extraordinary hours. And therefore we do not say that the Vision of Job does not act, but, as I said, when we discussed the health of labour, the Vision does what he can, but not what he ought to do if he had enough resources. We know today's inspection doesn't have enough resources, ten years from the transfer. And therefore we want to remember again today that it's very important that this congressman accepts his engagement for a month past: In order to demand the whole transfer of the work of the Spanish Government, Including the means of supplying it with necessary business and human resources. In the same way, we appreciate in a positive way the agreement we've come to today. And I thank EAJ, PSE, and Podemos-Tareuda Unida. And in conclusion, from the beginning of today's agreement, even if it is a discussion for another day, we wish to set it up at the door of the first of May, not only to finish the extraordinary hours, but to examine the whole of our work. We must begin taking measures to redistribute the work, both the paid and the watch. We've got to keep moving. More than 100 years ago, since the eight hours of work, breaking the stop we live in... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... more than 100 years ago, since the eight hours of work had been accomplished, breaking the rest of the rest of our lives. We have to stick to the discussion of 32 hours a week. To face the most important challenges that lead to digital, ecological, and demographics to work, the reduction of work must be essential, so that transitions may be based on social justice and the improvement of the social life quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u66	Thank you, President. Well, I think we have a good agreement in this House, and I am proud of it, so I want to thank all those who have made it possible. The availability, both to Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda United by the motion, as to EH Bildu, and of course to our partners of the Basque Nationalist Party. Because I believe that among all of us we have been able to build a text that raises a direct bet to deal with the problem, mainly illegal overtime. And why do we have an agreement? There is a common view - which was raised the other day by the Vice-Lehendakari in replying to the inquiry - that there should be no more overtime than those forced by the unexpected production; and that these have to be assessed logically and also compensated. And that illegal overtime should be pursued, and punished. And if we have that common statement, it is logical that we also agree on what actions we need to continue to take. Because it is good to have declaratory parts - which would be the first point of the compromise amendment -. But we, as you know, always bet that we have concrete measures, measures that the citizens of our country can use for something beyond the declarations - which do not cease to be important -. Two ideas in that declaratory part. The difference between overtime was mentioned earlier, legal and illegal. Extra legal hours are reflected in the Workers' Statute, as we know. It's also picked up... are in effect after labour reform. But, even so, we think that reducing those overtime hours is a positive way to continue creating employment; it is a positive way, as has been said, to maintain better working conditions; to reduce the wage gap; and also to enable reconciliation and co-responsibility of care. And with regard to illegal overtime, we are clear: they destroy employment, they are a fraud for society as a whole, and in the case of the most perverse, which is the illegal overtime that is not paid for, they are a flagrant case of labour exploitation. And we say that forcefully in this agreement, because you can't say without... with any other kind of subterfuge. I think it is necessary to speak to bread, bread; and wine, wine, wine. Saying things as they are. And of course, these illegal overtime have to be pursued and punished. We go into what to do, the rest of the points in our compromise amendment. And in what to do, we believe that we must make a journey, which is reflected in the amendment, by an element that has been commented on by those who have preceded me. It was quite definitive of the situation that we are experiencing today, and it is the obligation to have a time register, which the government of Pedro Sánchez put on the table in 2019. And that is a very useful tool precisely for the fight against illegal overtime, and in addition, to make sure of the fulfillment of working hours, as it has to be in the scope of our day to day. The Basque Government, in this commitment that we have ratified today in Parliament, is continuing to carry out and intensify the campaigns of the Labour Inspectorate, which have made it possible to detect situations, and to carry out situations that exceeded what was permitted by the Act. And that, therefore, were alterations of the legality of the working day. I want to remind you that in the last three years, there have been 2,434 performances. In the last year, 17% of these Labour Inspectorate activities related to working days compared to the previous year. And I would like to highlight one point that seems to me to be fundamental, and that is that only 13% of these proceedings were by complaint. That is to say, we are talking about an action with commitment, an action of the Inspectorate itself, of the very path that the Department of Labour and Employment has marked by conviction. Because only 13% were by complaint, the rest were ex officio proceedings. And we also take up another commitment that is purely logical, and also within the dynamics that the Department of Labour and Employment itself has maintained in this House throughout this legislature, which is to come to inform this Parliament of the actions that are taking place. And we also undertake that contractors of public contracts of the Administration and of companies and institutional entities, comply with that obligation to have the time record, and of course comply with the obligation not to perform illegal overtime. We were also talking about the Workers' Statute and the Labour Reform, which I would like to remind you that we are recovering the leading position, as collective bargaining in this area should never have been stolen. And so we call for measures to combat overtime to be implemented since collective, sectoral negotiations in this case. And I believe that we must also take advantage here of an appeal - which I am going to make to you; no other groups have, but I do want to make it. It is to encourage workers to report to the Labour Inspectorate... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... I'm gonna do it. No other groups have done so, but I do want to do so, which is to encourage workers to report to the labour inspectorate these kinds of days that exceed legality, illegal overtime, because it will be the best way we can fight it. The Basque Socialists are absolutely committed to quality employment, a job with rights, we have said it many times, and there is no room in that job for more overtime than those resulting from production contingencies, which are assessed and have to be compensated. And illegal and unpaid overtime must be directly eradicated. The timetable that the Government of Pedro Sánchez proposed in 2019 is an effective tool that we have to take advantage of, and from the Basque Government we have to follow, and we will implement, as Vice-Lehendakari, Idoia Mendia said, the inspections that are carried out from the scope of the Labour Inspectorate on this issue, and we assume the obligation that the contractors of the Public Administration comply with these requirements. I believe that the agreement that we have today is a good agreement, I said it at first, and it is also a very good agreement just before the first of May, because, as has been said here, by the hand of the trade unions, we will all get together that this type of action that is contrary to the law and that the groups that we are in this Parliament reject, because they can be eradicated. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u68	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. Mr. Hernandez has brought us a motive from the interference of the chief physician. In the justification of the explanation of the explanation he briefly mentions the reasons for this action, but in the justification of the motive he opens them: One, the job's the main concern of our society again, two, a lot of extraordinary eucadi hours-three, with extraordinary hours, could create a lot of new jobs, and four, the Eusk0s and Company's work is required. For this reason, Mr Hernández has proposed a four-point piece of legislation to us. He has already been overtaken by this agreement. I certainly welcome the agreement, and I also welcome its motion, where we are justified in creating the need to provide solutions to the realities that are clearly better, and solutions to move forward. And I recognize it, regardless of whether we didn't think it was entirely right. Based on the analysis of the motion, there are two central elements in the debate. There are also four other elements, which, while very important, are not the key to this debate, but I will also refer to them: the central elements. You say during the inquiry that you included in the debate on the Basque employment strategy some resolutions on overtime. It reminds us that although we had important agreements on other issues, it did not have a good reception for the groups we support the Government, and this is something that you were shocked to understand that we share a vision of it. First of all, you, in the debate on the strategy, and on this issue, do not present some resolutions, you present one, one, motion for a resolution 34. Secondly, we can share a vision, in fact we share it, so we present in our amendment a first point similar to yours, which is the objective of combating the inappropriate use of overtime, but the approach of the tool is very different: the difference between vision and tool that is used to materialize that vision. That is why we are not shocked that the motion for a resolution was not well received. That is why we are voting against motion for a resolution 34, and I would like to explain this position to you today. That motion for a resolution 34, and point 2 of its motion, which is at the centre of this debate, are identical texts. The text urges the Basque Government, on the one hand, to ensure the elimination of undeclared overtime and non-voluntary overtime, as well as on the other, to implement policies that discourage their use. Two elements in his recipe that as he focused at that time on this tool, which are clear, ensure elimination, before Mr Gil also referred to this, and implement disincentive policies. How the Basque Government, the department, focuses this tool. And this was explained by the Sailburu in the answer with absolute clarity. First of all, he explained to him the concept of overtime, and as has already been said here too, that overtime should not exist, except those which are forced by the unforeseen circumstances of production and which are assessed, as established by the legal order. He explained the importance of labor relations within companies, and how the power order that are companies and trade unions through their collective agreements, their negotiation, who determine under what conditions the hourly time can be exceeded, and their impact on the regulation of time records to avoid fraud in the performance of working days, and how that regulation requires that any overtime should be objective and negotiated as an indispensable condition. This is not as simple as limiting speed to 120 kilometers per hour in a standard, and yet do all drivers comply with this limitation? Well, that's where I leave it. But this is even more complicated from the normative point of view. And the Sailburu brought you data, the data you didn't expect, by the way. I was on time... still in time to provide such data. The data of the intervention of the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Government, which ensuring compliance with all these regulations has carried out from the year 19 to 21, in three years, 2,434 actions... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... the work of the Basque Government, which, ensuring compliance with all these regulations, has carried out from the year 19 to 21, in three years, 2,434 performances, in particular 760 in 19, 769 in the 20, despite being a year with pandemic and with paralysis of the economy, and no less than 905 in the year 2021. Anyway, from all these actions, and as has already been recalled, only 13% come (...?)). All this points to an on-the-spot inspection, which has also been stressed, i.e. inspection on its own initiative. That is why we also insist on maintaining the current point four of the agreement, the momentum of the trade unions on this issue. And I am grateful that you, Mr Hernández, have underlined this issue. In any case, all these data are found to indicate the inspection's intense work to ensure that the schedule is met. The second element. The Sailburu tells you that you make a parallelism that is impossible to make, and we agree with it, a false parallelism in some way, between fighting overtime and creating employment immediately, immediately. This, Mr Hernandez, does not work as an automaticism. You know that. Because the decision does not fall into the hands of the Administration, it is the decision of the company to a large extent. But that doesn't mean the Administration can't do anything. And in the face of the recipe that you proposed to us and that we understood that it does not work, the Basque Government says: One, empower, today we say in the agreement to maintain and intensify, the action of the Inspection, which is producing excellent results. And two, to carry out policies of genuine creation, such as those of retraining of working people. Policies to encourage job creation, not disincentives. Today in Euskadi, objectively, jobs are being created. The data says so. We are spraying the pre-crisis peaks of 2008. And this is very positive. And the trend points in that direction. In spite of the turbulence, the difficulties faced by companies, the cost of raw materials, energy and so on. Jobs are being created. And there is an optimistic view on this issue. It seems to us that the recipe works. Other elements of the debate. They are not the centre of the debate today. They're very important; that's why he pointed them out. Occupational absenteeism, a very important issue. It has also been mentioned, I would like you to bring this debate in order to be able to deal with it in depth. Wage gap in overtime. I totally agree. A reflection of another gender employment gap, something like a gap within another big gap. That is why the reference we have kept at point one. Then the reference to telework. I must thank Mrs Garcia for her contributions, beyond, in our view, the right approach to her amendment. And then the 10% unemployment target. I think you need to forget about that unambitious objective mantra. We coincide with the Sailburu, we coincide with the Sailburu, it's a realistic goal. It was at the time of the interpellation before the invasion of Ukraine. Today it is much more ambitious and realistic. A little anger, Mr Hernandez, I have to tell you. When you use reports, do it right, don't you? I refer to the report of the Office of Economic Studies of Workers' Commissions, which I am also addicted to. He takes a picture of 100 possibles to tell us that Euskadi goes wrong. I have the feeling that you have not understood the magnitude of the report. By the way, that report is November 18. He's got someone else up to date. In any case, and returning to the centrality of the debate, we find very powerful the agreement that on the limitation of proper use... - Sorry - inadequate overtime we have reached with you as a proposer and with Mrs Garcia. And I want to recognize the predisposition of both. Agreement which we believe is in line with the Government's implementation, which, on the one hand, continues to enhance the Inspectorate's action in the face of the irregular use of overtime and, on the other, continues to implement comprehensive policies of genuine job creation, fleeing policies of disincentive and turning to incentives. Like the new recently approved Strategic Employment Plan 2021-2024, which aims to address the economic situation resulting from the coronavirus pandemic and the current war in Ukraine. A new project that plans to allocate more than 2 billion euros to encourage the creation of 8,008... - forgive - 80,000 jobs, support 23,000 businesses and re-establish more than 48,000 unemployed people. This is to promote quality employment in conditions that allow for socio-occupational inclusion. Because an economy in a deep process of transformation and under permanent stress must emerge from every fight with more skilled workers and with greater opportunities to improve their living conditions. This photo, this photo, does reflect the job creation that we are pursuing and that is actually taking place in Euskadi. In conclusion, I wanted to acknowledge Mr. Rico's efforts in all this negotiation and all that work with the texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u69	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto's gone. So, by turning to the answers, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u70	Bringing an initiative to the Basque Parliament against what is, among other things, an abuse and an illegality and also what is in many ways an unacceptable exploitation of thousands of women and men is no fashion and, of course, it is not something that our parliamentary group can bring to bring about political profitability, Mr Gil Vegas. If the problem exists, if that reality, which we already see you do not share, there is, of course, a coalition like ours will continue to bring the issue to the Basque Parliament and other institutions and bring their proposals... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... there is, of course, a coalition like ours, will continue to bring the issue to the Basque Parliament and other institutions, and bring their proposals to address the issue. That is called coherence and perseverance. I recognize that you are also a person who has consistency and perseverance. You stay in Citizens, I tell you with all honesty. It seems to me something that I, of course, recognize when I see so many of his companions leaving a ship, a sinking ship, including here in Euskadi. A coherence and perseverance in the sense totally contrary to that of our group in the speech we have heard today, in which I believe you take the discourse of the worst of the employer, and defend your interests clearly, and also resort to contempt for initiatives. I will thank Mr Aiartza that from the difference with our original initiative, because he has made the effort to recognize that it is an initiative that he does not share, but that it is in some terms that, of course, are not much less for that kind of allusion that Mr Gil Vegas makes, that I think the only thing they hide is that it is the only position that the People's Party-Citizens has on this issue is the defence of the interests of the biggest exploiters that there may be, that use the illegal overtime and overtime specifically, to exploit the workers every day, every day in this country. And I'm also surprised that Mr. Gil Vegas is critical of asking for a diagnostic report, which he forgot to say. We ask for a diagnostic report, not knowing exactly what the exact specific hours are, where they are made at each site, but a diagnostic report on what the reality is. I am surprised, because you in your amendment are asking for a very similar thing. And then he came out here and criticized us. I therefore believe that you had no more argument than to defend the exploiters and to argue that you remain out of an agreement that seems absolutely reasonable to us. You have been the negators in this House today. Therefore, it is not a fashion, but there is a problem. There has been a problem for many years, so I have made historical references in my first intervention, because it is about the abuse of the lives of the workers, who are being forced to work beyond the day, and I am not going to talk now about the day of legal overtime, but about illegal hours. They are being forced every day to do thousands of hours in global computing of illegal hours that should not be done. And that is a serious problem, and we are therefore obliged to speak in this Parliament. And before that, because I regret to say that I have heard again, this time I have heard it, especially from the People's Party, that before that what is to be done is denounce. It is an absolutely manic phrase, and above all, it is a phrase that is out of reality, because yes, you have to denounce, but you have to denounce knowing what the reality is. Mr Rico said that he was taking advantage of the plenary today to encourage the workers to denounce. I am not going to join that arena automatically, but because what I want to do is to encourage the workers to organize themselves in the unions, because that is the way in which they are going to be able to denounce with certainty, because the individual complaint we know that in many cases what is involved is reprisals and the loss of work for the workers. And this is very important. That is why we simply reject the speech that says, well, if there is an illegality that is denounced and point, and yes, we believe that the Basque Government can be asked to ensure compliance with the law. We do believe you can be asked, and that is what we included in our original initiative, which also seems not to be shared. And in that comparison they've made several groups about... Mr Aiartza has done so, on the speed limit of 120, of course many people do not, or do not, comply with it, but I believe that the Government, if there is a law that says that the maximum is 120, can be asked to ensure that this legality is complied with. And in labour matters, too. If there is a law that says that the maximum number of overtime hours is 80, the Government should be asked to ensure that that is done, to work to ensure that. Of course, we are not going to give up asking you to work to ensure that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u71	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Popular-Ciudad Group, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u72	Thank you, Madam President. See, I don't know where to start, there's so much to say. I liked Mr. Rico's intervention to call bread, bread, and wine, wine. So let's stick to that, and for that we have to make it very clear that it's not true that overtime destroys employment, it's not true. Please expand on this issue a little further. What destroys employment is labour conflictivity and lack of competitiveness, and you have already changed it in the transaction, recognizing that this statement was indeed wrong, and you have turned it around saying that reducing overtime is a positive way to create employment, which is also not true, because there is no direct relationship to create employment, we need to take other much more effective measures, some of which we have already talked about here. We reiterate that it is necessary to ask for the obligation to register hours, because it is already mandatory, forgiveness, that is not necessary, because it is already mandatory. You want to put it on, okay, it doesn't hurt. You have also changed the transactional. Let's see, no, sir... I am not a negationist that there is a breach of the law in the matter of overtime. I know there are illegal overtime, but as we said before, there are also many other crimes committed, and we cannot ask the Government to ensure that they are not carried out. You have to ask him, in fact, to pursue them. The measures to combat illegal overtime will seem to you very well, but what needs to be done is to denounce them, like any other illegality. That's how you've put it in your own transaction, and it makes a lot more sense... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... report them, like any other illegality. This is how you have put it in your own transaction, and it makes much more sense. And carrying out inspection campaigns to verify compliance with the time control, seems appropriate to us, seems correct to us, like any other legal obligation. Businesses have to comply with laws in all respects, don't they? There is one aspect that has emerged recently, which I find very interesting and which I think we have talked about very little, which perhaps deserves a separate GNP, which is the issue of the right to digital disconnection. It is a great issue, which shows that regulation in labour matters is being overcome by technological evolution, and that, while we continue to insist on nineteenth-century regulations, reality is overflowing us everywhere. It is a subject that will have to be addressed sooner than later, and our own experience I think makes it quite clear. Good. Your transaction does not seem wonderful to me - as Mr Rico told me yesterday - but I recognize that the initial initiative has been very well arranged. It seems to us that, in general terms, it is quite correct. It is not our transaction, logically, we will defend ours, but we will abstain in the other because it seems to us that as it is in the terms that it has remained is quite correct; at least, it does not say, it does not make the mistakes that the previous one made, eh? That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u73	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs Garcia of the EH team? Mr. Rico? Eunerative patriots, Lord Aianzea mustn't speak a word. So... [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Euskal Socialists, EH Collectors and Eukobertarians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 74; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 0; Abstations, 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u74	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by José Manuel Gilegas, the popular team of the Ciudadanians, the results of the diagnosis of ISEI-IVEI. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Gil, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u75	Thank you, Madam President; I am sorry that you have to bore me with my face today. Three weeks ago, as you know, we asked the Education Adviser about a very important and very worrying issue: the results of the 2019 diagnostic evaluation presented last month by ISEI-IVEI, which I remember - because sometimes it doesn't seem - that it is an agency of the Basque Government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u76	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u77	The report shows what we were already afraid of: the Basque education system has the worst results of its history and deepens a trend maintained over time which, extrapolated to this day, we fear will be even worse. According to this study, ESO Second students have the lowest level in the last ten years in Mathematics, Science, Language, Euskera and English. Here's the thing. An important fact, a fact that we thought deserved an inquiry. That neither we - I understand that not even this Parliament - could let go unnoticed. This is the problem we have on the table, and it is a problem that is not small. And the purpose of the inquiry was to ask the Government, assuming its responsibility, to confront the problem, to properly analyse its causes and to present a plan to correct it. Come on, it's normal. But we were very surprised and concerned, seeing that the Government's reaction to this serious problem was: one, trying to hide it, delaying as much as possible the submission of the report; two, denying the evidence shown by one government agency; three, exhibiting an alarming self-congratulation; and four, accusing the others of trying to discredit Basque education. This was the Government's unfortunate reaction to the data in the report. It seems like a mistake to us. Mr. Counsellor, as he usually does - and as surely today will be done again by the groups supporting the Government - he enlightened us with all the battery of positive indicators of Basque education: school dropout, higher education rate, repetition rate, etc.; I mention them myself, in case you want to save yourself the exercise of self-congratulation again. As I told you, it seems that everything in Basque education seems to work out fine. Everything but learning mathematics, science, language, Basque and English; everything else, fine. He even went on to say that what had to be done was to look at emotional indicators, such as joy, rooting... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... Basque and English; everything else, fine. He even went so far as to say that what had to be done was to look at emotional indicators, such as joy, rooting, abrasion, affection, arguing without any basis that maybe we were not worried about those emotional indicators. Well, look, I'm telling you, we do care. But we're talking math, not joy. That it is very good for students to learn mathematics with joy, but above all the important thing is that they learn. And what's happening is that they don't learn math with joy or sadness, in any way. And so we will keep some very cheerful zopencos, which will then be easy to deceive and manipulate because, for example, they will not be able to interpret a statistical data. In other words, let us not mix the problems to avoid, because we try to cover up the reality that is not appropriate by diverting attention to other indicators as if these were able to nullify the previous ones. Today we are talking about bad results in mathematics, science language and Basque. And another day, if you want, we can talk about the level of joy, helplessness or affection of our students. And this you do repeatedly is an exercise of negativity in every rule. A very worrying negativity exercise because they are denying, or at least undervalued, a nuclear problem in Basque education, that what needs to be done is to accept and deal with it in a solid and urgent way. And the truth is that we do not understand that the Basque Government does not give these results the importance they deserve. And that is why we have no choice but to table this motion. I therefore hope that the Government will change its attitude on this issue and start by accepting the problem represented by the data of its own administration, because it does not seem to us to be responsible or mature to continue to exercise self-complacency and negationism. And I find it very worrying that the Basque Government, when faced with this issue, tries to throw balloons out saying that we bring these issues to the House in order to try to discredit Basque education or to wear down the government, as if it were data that we made up ourselves. No, gentlemen. That's not true. If Basque education is being discredited, it is because of its mismanagement, its blatant political use and its poor results. What we are doing in bringing these initiatives here, in addition to fulfilling our obligation and responsibility, is worrying about Basque education and trying to stop it from deteriorating. Because the responsibility is to put the problems on the table, face them and seek solutions. And what turns out to be at least childish is to avoid them, deny them, and accuse others of using them to wear down the government. I inform you that I have no interest in wasting the Government, which is already wearing itself. But I am very interested in facing the serious problems of Basque education and seeking realistic solutions. And that's worrying about Basque education. So please don't accuse us of their own weaknesses. And to face the problem of poor academic results, after accepting the data, what needs to be done is a good diagnosis that allows us to know the causes. An objective, external, uninterested and professional diagnosis. Another issue, that of diagnosis, that the Basque Government does not like anything. That, apparently, they already make the diagnosis themselves that suits them. And if they don't like it, omit it, like the Basic Report of the new law. And if it takes an objective and profound diagnosis, it won't be me who exposes mine here, who also has it, because it would be just as subjective as anyone else's. But I do advise you to follow some clues that may be useful in explaining those bad results. It is clear that trying to teach students any subject in a language they don't master can be - it's just a crazy hypothesis, if you want - a cause of bad results. And I also suggest that you investigate the selection and training of teachers, as well as the pedagogical models that are being used. The time is right to do this exercise because we are at the door of the new law. And it will not be a good law if it is not based - we have said it more often - on a correct diagnosis, no matter how much parliamentary agreement you use in screen mode. The new law must incorporate concrete corrective measures that affect the real causes of the bad results. And that implies, among other things, putting the results above forced euskaldunization. But we'll see what you bring here. Our attitude on education issues is always constructive. That is why we have already put our proposals on the table, we have explained them here on 7 April. And in case you don't remember, I'll sum them up. One, the consideration of both Spanish and Basque as official languages on equal terms. Two, the freedom of citizens to choose the language they want to use and in which they want to learn. Three, the English bet as a foreign language. Four, regardless of the language model of each centre, at least 25% of teaching hours must be taught in each of these three languages. Five, the establishment of a system of objective and public academic performance indicators per centre. Six, a concert system devoid of ideological requirements. Seven, the prohibition in all public and concerted centers of any kind of indoctrination message. Eight, parents'unrestricted freedom to choose the educational centre for their children. Nine, sufficient funding for the public school and for the concerted school on equal terms. Ten, a system of access to the teaching career based on a merit competition and a period of practice of at least two years. Eleven, that the teacher in the exercise of his or her educational, policy or guidance functions which he or she has been assigned have the status of labour authority, the public authority - pardon - and therefore is endowed with the presumption of veracity in his or her reports and statements. Twelve, the free education of children from 0 to 6 years old. Thirteen, the possibility that each center will decide whether to make a day off or continue. And finally, fourteen, the implementation of the school nurse. And of those 14 proposals in the interpellation that we suggest to you today that you focus... Today we suggest that you focus on three very specific proposals. One, that the teaching methodologies are reviewed and bet innovative pedagogical models that guarantee an excellent learning of truncated subjects such as mathematics. We cannot continue to reproduce patterns from years ago with those with whom we learned those who are now teachers. Nor to base everything on the memoristic. Even though we don't want to... or we believe that since we despise it completely, as it seems that other voices are now making. Two, that the system of selection and access to teacher training be improved, putting in place a career system based on continuous training and wage incentives. And measures are implemented to strengthen the teacher's authority in the classroom and his social prestige... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... career theme based on continuing training and wage incentives. And measures are implemented to strengthen the teacher's authority in the classroom and his social prestige. The quality of education depends, to a large extent, on the quality of teachers, which I believe we all agree on. And with this we do not intend to say that teachers are doing their work wrong, but on the contrary; we put their work in value, and more in these years of pandemic. Even though the counselor implied that we were questioning her in our question the other day, in an attempt to use the teachers as a shield, since the work we question is hers, that of the Council and that of her predecessors, not that of the teachers. Teachers need tools to do their job better. Incentives, authority and prestige. Starting with the selection and access to their work, following a professional career that they can develop with continuous training and wage incentives. And it is very important that Euskadi (...) a law of recognition of the authority of the faculty, such as that adopted in 2021 in the Parliament of Andalusia, promoted by our dear colleague Javier Imbroda, recently deceased. And to give the same consideration, third idea, to the two official languages of Euskadi, so that Basque pupils can study in their mother tongue in order to ensure a better acquisition of the knowledge of the trunk matter. Because, in order to improve the results, it is essential to respect the mother tongue. We have several language subjects: Basque, Spanish, English, in some centers another foreign language. And it is well to set out minimum knowledge objectives for those languages, as shown in the agreement, and which we too propose. But languages are essentially the instrument through which we communicate, express, interpret reality and learn. The difference between learning mathematics, for example, in the family language or in a language acquired with a lesser domain is evident. Well, in Euskadi we have a dissociation between the predominant family language and the almost exclusive language in our centres. According to the diagnosis of the Basque educational system of 2021, 22.7% of the 4th grade primary school students have as their family language the Basque language, 4,353 students. In 2nd of ESO it does not reach 16%, 2,845 students. Therefore, the vast majority of students do not have Basque as a family language. However, model D has a penetration of 77.3% in primary education and 71.4% in ESO. In other words, our students are not studying most of the stem materials in their family language. And that certainly has a negative impact on the results. Let us therefore abandon the euskaldunization as the objective of education and propose an equal offer of conditions so that there is genuine freedom of choice of language model and we can trace the academic results. Proposals like this can perhaps be reasonable, sensible and directly positive. We believe that they would certainly substantially improve the situation of Basque education. Because otherwise, denying the problems, we think it doesn't lead us anywhere, it doesn't lead us anywhere. Accusing those we put on the table the subject and saying that we do it to criticize we have already said that it is somewhat childish. And our education deserves another level of management, much more mature and more professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, together the representative of the Antzar Group, Mrs. González, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u79	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President, Chief, congressman. I begin my intervention by sending a message of support to the thousands of girls and boys and teaching staff who have been doing PISA tests since yesterday. As if from the time of the daguerrotype it was, that time of the photograph in which the exhibition times were extended, because from yesterday until May 9th they will be taking that photograph of the Basque educational system. Eta, bai, PISA argazkiaz hitz egiten ari naiz, hiru urtetik behin gure a ikaslea zaien argazkia, ebaluazia. Gure 15, 16 urteko ikasleak irakurketan, matematiketan eta zientzietan nola daden erakusten two irudia. I greeted the student and the teacher, but I cannot forget also the staff of ISEI-IVEI, who have the job of revealing those photos, of putting them on that album where photography and space are shared with other communities and with other states. Is it zer geratazzen da argazkiak elkarrekin jartzen direnean? Konpara daitezkeela. Was it osassuntsua to the konparatzea? Ez. Eta bidezkoa yes? Ez yes. But as the initiative that brings us here today, the People's Citizen group mentions the assessments, for the truth is that I have not resisted talking about them. On the one hand, because I cannot resist to say that it takes a critical reading of the evidence itself in order not to fall into that insane competitive fund that feeds on the rankings by countries and by autonomy, because education is cooperation; and, therefore, one cannot follow the same logic as in the labour market, which is indeed competitive and which is, by definition, a system in which competitiveness is tended. Education tells us about knowledge, and surplus value because it must not enter this equation. Because, in essence, such assessments should serve us to make progress in the didactics of science and mathematics and reading comprehension, with equity, with a vocation of excellence - which are not incompatible -. Hori izan beharko litzateke Jaurlaritzak landu beharko lukeen orientabidea. And that is why I want to tell you that at the first point of your initiative, Mr Gil, you only mention mathematics, when we all know that without reading comprehension none of the other competences are acquired. Unfortunately, the results that the evaluation shows us are not good. For example, if we compare the last examinations we can clearly see that every ability that is measured in DBH is improved. It is to be considered, moreover, that this evaluation of 2019 is a precedent study of pandemia, the covida has increased or checked the proper development of many students. And so, we... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... that pandemia is the apprentice before, covida has increased or checked the proper development of so many students. So we ask ourselves what can be expected of the evaluation of 2021. As may be expected, the results may be worse. We must correct this situation, but, as we have already remarked, let us leave it, even for a quarter of an hour, to evaluate these worthless results from the standpoint of competition, and we will go and discuss the necessity of these investigations. We agree that assessments are essential. If we want to improve the education system, evaluations are basic. And I go further, because what our system also needs is not so much to compare with the rest, but to build our own framework of evaluation and research; where all those elements that make up the teaching-learning process, the student, the teacher, the curriculum, the addresses, the centers, the families, the community, the ISEI-IVEI. It is also essential that teachers carry out them and that they are the ones who, for the most part, support this system. Teaching staff who must have permanent training, with decent working conditions, because the faculty is also tired, and more so in the last two years: protocols, exam adaptations, reports and, now, the extra evaluation. And yes, Mr Gil, between working conditions you can also talk about the wage incentives your initiative collects. But that is still a question within all that implies the professional development and promotion of the faculty, where helping them to obtain the necessary skills and training that empowers them is fundamental. With regard to the third point raised in his initiative, I refer to the text that we have reached agreement on, and which has already been distributed, which is that of developing the multilingual capacity of pupils, with Basque as their axis, by means of integrative methodologies and comprehensive projects of all languages, generating a multiplier effect on language learning. However, if we're together from Podemos-Euerda, there's some things we can't understand and I want to talk about. One, we believe that the Department of Education underuses an organism such as ISEI-IVEI; we believe that the topics of study can be expanded and thus make a more complete evaluation of all the elements that make up the education system, hori baita egin barik dagoen hobekuntzetako bat. In like manner, the inquiries which observe equity and segregation must be increased, because they are the gravest problems of our system. Y, paraello, el ISEI-IVEI tamen necesita mástes. Eta hirugarrena, azken urteotan gerstatutakoa ezin de la erepikatu uste dugu. We do not understand how even today there are some new assessments. Moreover, when we debated to transform the educational system, we talked about PISA 2018, the PIRLS - the international study for the advancement of reading comprehension in 2016 -, studies unpublished today. 2019ko ebaluazio diagnostikoa ere berandu argitaratu from iruditzen zaigu, two months ago; it has been three years, denbora gehiegi da. Gu geu ISEI-IVEIk Bilboko San Inazio auzoan dueen egotizara gerturatu ginen, orduan Azterlan argitarazze gabea zena irakurtzera, tokian bath ezino dellako irakurri. We believe that the results of these studies serve to better understand the strengths and weaknesses of our system, and, of course, to improve it. For this reason we believe that the ISEI-IVEI must follow more accurately the principle of transparency, and publish all the studies as briefly as possible. Finally, I would like to highlight today's agreement, which shows that - despite these aspects that I have mentioned and that some of them are already part of our amendment - above all, we are clear that the way to improve the education system is to seek common frameworks. The text agreed today with the Nationalist groups, Basque Socialists, Euskal Herria Bildu reflects this. A text that is consistent with the basic agreement that we adopted here a month ago. And today I started with the simile of assessments and photos, and I'm going to end it, because I think one of the places where we have to be is in building that camera that objectively captures how our system is, that it's not another burden for the faculty and that helps us, be the language in which we use, to take a quality photo of a quality system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u81	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, everyone. Well, today we have an argument from PP-Ciudadnos about the results that our system produced in 2019 during the evagnostic evaluation. I must say, in order to begin with, Mr. Gil, that we agree with some of the statements you have made. It's true that our system is not perfect, and that's a long time since the Basque People are in line. It appears to us that, because some objective data is on the table, our education system has been somehow carried away by the fine education of the last decades. And the evidence of PISA has been mentioned, and the evidence of IRLS is also mentioned, and other observers say the same: our education system needed a transformation, and even when the results are concerned, it has been insisted on by different evidence. And you're right when you say that even if we say − with different targets, when you say that the Board of Education does a few ratings with such self-collarity, and that the result of the evidence that ISEI-IVEI will throw off is a very self-compounding result. But here we have often insisted on... − is not the readings that we ourselves make about these data. It's not about the water bottle here as we were talking about − half full or empty. Here it is that the bottle has holes in it and loses water... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... the readings we read. It's not about the water bottle here as we were talking about − half full or empty. Here it is that the bottle has holes in it and loses water. And our education system, right now, loses water. But, apart from that, I don't really agree with the interference you made a few weeks ago to the head of the Union, or with the various assertions you've done at the Board of Education, or with this motive you brought us to-day. For even if we have receded in the results and in the reactionors in this long decade, there are some of our system's structural deficiencies, and even those which have remained on the table for the sake of education. Our education system is overburecracy, our education system lacks equity, our education system increases segregation, our education system does not succeed with the average euccany of all students, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And the purpose of improving the results of our education system must be to all of us, and at least that is one of the written purposes of the motion you have brought in today. But we put other ends on your motion, and they're obvious because all your conversations show that way. Mr. Gil, as your previous interpellation to Councillor Bildarratz, your motion today shows once again that tufillo euskaraphobo that has your group. With today's proposal, and you yourself have said so, some of us seem to be attempting a so-called forced euskaldunisation. Well, I have to tell you that euskaldunization cannot be forced because euskera, learning euskera, cannot be forced when euskera is a proper and official language, and beyond being a right it is also an obligation of the institutions. The learning of euskera, being a language of its own, is a right that the entire student has. And you, once again, camouflage your initiative in the bad results that our system brings out or that you have taken out our system to this day, camouflage the usual, that is that all students can study in their mother tongue, and says your proposal, "to ensure a better acquisition of knowledge in the trunks". And I ask myself: nowadays, with the studentship that has the Basque educational system, what is the mother tongue of our studentship? Are Spanish and Basque the only mother tongues that Basque students have? What do we mean by Basque students? Because I would say, Mr Gil, that today in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, in our educational system, we have dozens of mother tongues, and you as I know it is impossible for all students to study, to curate their studies - as you say on your initiative, to curate their studies - in their mother tongue. You too, of course, reduce it - of course - to the Castilian: you want the student to study uniquely and exclusively in Castilian. But, fortunately, today this Euskaraphoba motion, once again I say, which has brought you on top of the table, has become a frog again. And it is not the first time, because you have already brought a proposal to this Parliament for the defence of the freedom of choice of the linguistic model in education, and fortunately, the Basque Nationalist Party, together with the Socialist Party, together with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita and Euskal Herria Bildu, achieved a compromise that did not say anything else that, among other proposals that we managed to amend, that the entire student at the end of compulsory education would achieve B2 in Basque; so, his first Euskaraphobo attempt to bring to this Parliament went wrong. But, once again, in his commitment to Euskaraphobo - I insist - he brought another initiative in relation to the freedom of choice of families to choose an educational model. And, once again, the four parties that I have mentioned have already agreed and created a parliamentary paper to be able to reach an educational agreement; for the second time, the Basque-speaking attempt has failed. And today, for the third time, you bring another Euskaraphoba proposal, and once again the four parties have agreed to reaffirm our commitment to that which we accepted on 7 April in this Parliament, which was the educational agreement. And I'll tell you, Mr. Gil, the results are no worse than the results of eucalyptic teaching. And the acquisition of worse results in the tronhalments of a badge has nothing to do with what language it is taught, no less. And I'll tell you a anecdote. Yesterday, just as I was walking along the street, Holy One, I met Joseph in the house hall of Ramon. Besides being a courteous physicist, Jose Ramon is also my neighbor, who has just won the Parsonian prize, and I commented to him today that we had this motive in Parliament. And he said: "Well, in 2022 we're still discussing the good mathematician, the Basque, that dichotomy in the parliament? "I don't know. And I said yes. And he said: "Say that Maria Jesus Esteban is the President of the Mathematical Organization of Europe, Doctor Honorius Caesar, reference to mathematics, and Basque." 'Tell him,' he said, 'that Enrique Zuazua, Germany, Madrid, is a mathematician from the University of Deus, the supreme investigator, a man of reference to mathematics, and a Basque.' And he told me to mention Jone Uria as well. Young Jone rain, because he's not only a verser but he's also a mathematician and a Basque. And everyone made his thesis with him, even though his mother didn't speak eucalyte, they made the thesis with him. And the thesis was maintained. And watch out for the name they've got. And it occurred to me the other day to see a YouTube video of Parliament in Navarre, Pedro Miguel Housenik, nafar, nafar. Though his mother's language was not eucatic, one of the Presidents of the Spanish State asked him what it required to teach the quantum aber physics for its support, and he replied that it was the only one that he needed to know quantum physics and to know it for the sake of euca. So don't confuse your mother-language eucalyptus, because the results may be good results. And let's go a few miles north, a few miles, and I've insisted on it more than once. The best grades in the French State are drawn by students from a certain House of School in France. A few homes are the only type of eucarating in the D model, and most of the students of that college have no mother language, and the best notes in the French state are drawn by the students of Lyceum. But when we come here, when we come to the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipu, we are told by the 2020 data that we have learned in the model of Selectivity, or in other words... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... When we come to the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuzian, the facts of 2020 tell us that students who have learned it in the model of the Seltivity, or, in other words, students who have made self-ellectual activity, make a better impression on the selectivity than the students who have made the selectivity, although the majority of the students of the D model, unfortunately, are not the parent language, is beyond that of the 98% of the young seltivity in front of the 93%. So don't tell me, please, that they get worse grades from learning how to keep it. And I'll give you an example of my own. My mother is a Spanish language. I retired to school. My neighborhood, the neighbourhood, is entirely mailed, does not speak of eucalyptus; or at least it did not speak of eucalyptus at that time. And my family doesn't know how to cook. My family's an outsider. And I got the best math grade in the selectivity in my high school myself. This shows that, although the mother does not speak eucalyptic language, the best note can be produced in a mathematical examination made of eucatious mathematics. And that's my case. And I don't want to prolong it any longer. I want to rate the middle term that we've agreed to between the four parties, and I want to insist that our educational system has many privations. And for six months we've been talking about all these privations. And all these deficiencies, we have a tool to turn all these deficiencies around, and that's an education agreement. You and your team voted against the education agreement. So this education agreement must now become a decree and a law. Let us hope that it is the law of Basque Education to be faithful to those who agree in this agreement. And we'll support it, because it seems to us that our educational system's transformation and our students can get the best grades from this education agreement that will give us effective mechanism on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u82	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u83	Thank you, President. Good again, Mr. Gil. You say we've seen you repeatedly in this rostrum, I guess today you'll have a plus in the game. I would like to say that I share with you your concern about the results of the evaluation of ISEI-IVEI that you have shown in the last report. But sharing concern does not mean that we have to fall into either apocalyptic discourse or absolute catastrophe. And, of course, I refuse to say that in an issue where we need to discuss improving the quality of education, we are going to turn this into a debate on languages. I think it's sterile, it's from the past; or at least it should be. And, therefore, it does not seem to me that we contribute anything or solve anything in a sort of rifirmrafe between who is the most defender of the Basque and the most defender of the Castilian. That is not the society we represent, that is not the society to which we should aspire. I share with you, as I say, the concern; what I do not share is the permanent catastrophe with which you see and set the gaze on the educational world and that kind of apocalyptic discourse on the educational policy of the Basque Government. When things get exaggerated they lose value, lose effectiveness and lose truth. And I think that's starting to happen to you. When a simplistic and pejorative, absolute analysis is made of the results of student evaluations without taking into account other indicators. I believe that the Councillor responded well the other day when, in fact, he acknowledged that there was bad data, even very bad data, and that it should be improved. But it is also true that we have a good education system. It would be nice for you to recognize that from time to time. The education system is good, it is probably not the best or excellent, but it is a good education system. Because that would give you prestige, it would give you more credibility than the permanent speech of saying that everything is horribly wrong. Because it is true that there are positive data, the other day the counselor told them, to you it seems that he was apologizing. Man, but they're true. It is that there are data, such as dropping out of school or school at the age of 16, that are good, even much better than in other parts of Europe. Well, for one to be prestigious, when you make a criticism it's good that you also recognize the good part before you get into the bad part; because if you stay on the black side of the story, then, in the end, it's so dark that you lose all credibility. And believe me when I tell you that the Basque Socialists share those concerns, of course they do. But we live in a new global scenario for all purposes, and of great cultural diversity. Some other contestant meant it, didn't he? In a scenario where Basque students are multiracial, multicultural, and are going to be more and more, because that is the world that has touched us to live. And that cultural diversity establishes potential wealth, but it also creates added difficulties that must be addressed. And all this creates management problems that must be addressed, but with objective, rigorous and calm analysis. I know that you are of a more fiery nature, but in some subjects you have to lower your tone a little bit in order to be able to get right in matters such as the transformation of education and that of excellence. Equity is a subject that is repeated, by the way, as a feature of our system in the PISA international assessments. I do not want to criticize the PISA report, but, like everyone else, it is critical and has its shortcomings. It is not the sanctasantorum or the Bible of evaluations. And in this case, for example, in the case of equity, since Euskadi is well standing in the PISA report, with high percentages of students at average levels of performance and a lower percentage than the OECD average at lower levels of performance in all PISA competencies. Is that the Bible? No, but they help us assess some important aspects. But it is true that they also include only a small percentage of academic areas. Diagnostic assessments - with which I agree, and I do not believe that anyone has dissent in this House - should serve us to identify lines of improvement and accompaniment in educational centres and to complement the evolution of these same centres. But, again, they must never be used as a bold weapon to criticize government action. I'm not saying you don't blame her, but don't always use... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... these same centres. But, again, they must never be used as a bold weapon to criticize government action. I do not say that you do not criticise it, but do not always use the same schemes, because if you intend to prestige education and its values with this system I think you get the opposite effect. The treatment of education is something that we have all repeated - I believe - in the debate on the basis of education, it should be a country element that serves to unite, not as a tool of wear and tear and social conflict. I understand that you, after the displeasure that led with the approval of the foundations of the educational system, have wanted to continue with the baton. But, anyway, believe me, I'm telling you, your business on this is already a mess, huh? And, I'm sorry to tell you, but that's the way it is. And we think that education - and I hope that you, and I think that you do - is a future bet for this country; a country bet. And I think a lot has been done in this country to get this. With mistakes, of course, but I would like you to join in this collective effort, with your specificities, as you wish, at the moment when this 90% majority agreement has been reached in the House. As you will understand, I do not share what the educational idea of Bildu, Podemos or the Basque Nationalist Party is all about, but in education it is always about getting a common fund, a common territory in which we all give up something to get a greater good. And I sincerely believe that on these grounds of education we have made that effort, and I believe that we have largely achieved that goal. And I think that on this issue, as on the others, we should at least go through the educational issue on the same route. We believe in the value of evaluations, as you presume to believe, and evaluate from co-responsibility in the adoption of improvement actions. But this aspect, in particular, is expressly reflected in the basic agreement which you did not want to vote on and which you approved by a very large majority, which includes not a paraphyte, a specific and comprehensive section for the assessment and continuous improvement of the education system. Why? Because we were all worried, and we wanted to pick it up like this, expressly. Then, the PISA report appears, another day may appear, which marks certain shortcomings in the educational system. Clearly, there will be, because we do not have a perfect educational system; there is no such system anywhere, and shortcomings will appear. But the basics include the necessary instruments, and that is an ongoing evaluation, in which not only the Education Administration has to participate: also the teacher, also the parents, also the educational centers, the society... And it is done permanently, throughout the day, with a new approach adapted to the times and starting from the opportunity to implement a new curriculum more flexible but also rigorous and effective. We share with you the reflection that it is necessary to clarify and regulate the periodicity of evaluations in a medium-term time horizon for the centers to integrate them in a standardized way, because that is a complex and multifactorial process that needs the accompaniment of many people. It includes students, faculty, curriculum, management, school, families, the community and the education system, to complement self-evaluation and external evaluations. And I do not want to end without dedicating this moment to thanking a public instrument such as the ISEI-IVEI, which I believe is doing a magnificent job that must continue to be strengthened. But not only, but with the support of the entire school community, and, if possible, of all those in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u84	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs, members of the legislature, good noon to all. This time we have a discussion about the results of the ISEI-IVEEI, Mr. Gil, or at least he takes them for a foundation to make fun once more. Although the evaluations are good, we have all agreed on that, though necessary, as an instrument of the conjecture of defects in any system, we may also say that it loads demons. And in this discussion it is evident that, unless, as a whole, it be read; unless it be read in a perfect and sincere reading. But what is the diagnosis of the central evaluation? It is a process of evaluation which serves for the improvement of schools and euscal educational system, the estimate of how far all the students of the 4th grade and secondary dBH have developed basic competition. And he has a double purpose: on the one hand, to know how far school prepares for life, and how far the students are prepared to perform their duty as citizens, and on the other hand to help the schools improve their discipline, and give useful information to guide the administration to the politics of education. This, therefore, ought to be something for improvement, and not something to publish with intentional headlines. On the 2nd of March, Mr. Gil has used the catastrophic headline used by a famous media, to develop it in the justification of his motion, and today he repeated: "Los alumnos vascoros obtien los peores resulta en una pacada." The panoma Mr. Gil presented is this: In the first school, 4th. that the knowledge of the two secondary Basques in mathematics, science, and Spanish matters, are worse than in 2009. They even got off in English compared to the first evaluation in 2011. And, of course, the business of the eucalyptus: He retires in the knowledge and use of the Eucharians, as if he were the ruin of a country project. Mr. Gil forgot to discuss the media the next day. [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... In use, it draws back; it opens like the failure of a popular project. Mr. Gil has forgotten to discuss that some media on the following day published another. Other experts have also made statements on this subject. And the linguistic pattern for some has no negative effect. Or in non-commissioned communities students have better data in Spanish, Mr. Gil. No. They don't have a better outcome. My mother's language has also been eucarated. I didn't respond to maths. In Latin, however, it is one of the best notes. But it has nothing to do with it. El eesz no problem, señor Gil. El eesz es su problem. And, yes, they're objective data. The gnostic evaluation, and, as I have said, besides the diagnosis of evaluation, there are other interesting data and investigations. But Mr. Gil wasn't interested in bringing them here today. And these also must be examined. To enlarge the view, to have a general perspective, and give a better answer. On the one hand, as you will know, Mr Gil, the first in-depth study carried out in Spain has been drawn up. In addition, on the educational impact of the covid 19. It uses the abundant data available on the Basque Country. And for example, it detects a great difference between educational networks. Perhaps, perhaps, this is one of the reasons for achieving those results - to which you refer, Mr. Gil - and not your obsession against the Basque woman. But you're not interested in this. You're not interested in this. It's been very clear what you're up against. It didn't take more than... It was only necessary to listen to him in his intervention, in the non-law proposal in relation to vocational training. For this study, the study carried out by ESADE and the COTEC Foundation, is based on abundant official data collected by ISEI-IVEI, which in March 2021 carried out diagnostic evaluation tests and is focused on Euskadi. And the authors of the research believe that the conclusions are extrapolable to great features to the Spanish State, where also communities led by their party or at least their coalition, Mr Gil, have competence in the field of education. Since the period of school closure and the conditions of return to the classrooms from September 2020 were almost equal in almost all the territories in the course used for the analysis. So has education failed in communities where your party or coalition, as you are a part of, has education skills? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This study also indicates that Euskadi is one of the communities with the best educational indicators. Its findings are in line with other research on the academic effects of the major coronavirus crisis, which triggered a widespread closure of educational institutions in the spring of 2020. And the establishment, after its reopening, of very different school health protocols according to the country. I'm gonna tell you. The estimated loss of learning in the Basque Country is, however, smaller than that detected elsewhere, as may be the case in the Netherlands. In Germany, for example, it has been calculated at almost twice as much. Cortázar, not the authors of this report, believes that the fundamental reason is that his research, when analyzing a longer period from March 2020 to March 2021, covers not only the negative effect of the school closure, but also the positive result of the reopening of educational institutions. And Euskadi was one of the few countries of (...) where since September 2020 the school has not closed in general. Nor is the study statistically significant differences in the results of the three linguistic models that exist here in Euskadi. Por tant, Mr. Gil's been accused of darkness today. Eukadin's evaluation is an exception. A second report made by the same investigators, and insist upon the consequences of the coronabirus in the disciples, not of the Ministry of Education, nor of most commonwealths, and of the Catalonia, and of the Canaries, have not been examined by examples. I've seen it from Euskika. So, the transparency of the Basques, Mr. Gil. All of it. And then on the other side, at the check meeting, the head of the Bilar Group sent you a number of details. And the data isn't new. You knew them. On June 21st of the legislature, the very chief physician presented them at the Board of Education. So transparency again, Mr. Gil. School (... Bit early) data; data at unworking formation rate; high school graduates; high school school graduates; English high grade; high school rate for 16 years; smallest repetition rate; high school rate. The Basque Country University in Shanghai, the recording data, Mr. Arrese, is reported, and the three-quarters of them make eucassion, and 99% exceed it. And the comparison on the level of Europe, as Mr. Gil likes: Finland, Sweden, Holland. We're on the same level. This is the data, Mr. Gil. They're not positive, are they not positive? That's enough. That's enough. Please stop spreading the negative image that is our education system based on mere interpretations. Mr. Pastor has also told you that he does no good at all. I want to make a change here today. To put our education system in value, and to congratulate and praise the work of thousands of professionals. Time is almost over. So I'm going on for my second round. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The shift of the group that hasn't issued any corrections is gone. Passing to responses turn. Mr. Gil, your word is... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Well, let's go through with it. I didn't mention PISA's assessments. But since you mention them, I don't know why you mention them. I was referring to ISEI-IVEI. But if you want to focus on PISA assessments, we'll talk. By the way, I do recommend that you see the particulars of which language students choose to make PISA assessments when they can actually choose it, because it might give them some clues. Look, when I saw the ISEI-IVEI report, late, when I saw it, I came up with two thoughts. On the one hand, I said, "How good it is that there is an independent body that is able to say what no one says, that it is able to put on the table a problem that people see, people suffer, but nobody puts it white on black. It's good that there's an independent body." Of course, when I then saw that he had actually been two years late, I began to doubt the autonomy of ISEI-IVEI. I agree with the proposal made by Mrs González that the ISEI-IVEI should maintain its independence and maintain its autonomy and make the exercise of transparency that it has done and more. This is what we really need. I do not agree, however, with her in some appreciations, some of which we have already commented on. As, for example, it is not healthy or healthy to compare or evaluate students or systems. What's more, I think it's imperative. In business management there is an assertion that what cannot be measured cannot be improved. And this is imperative. Of course, you have saved this issue in the east agreement of the four nationalist groups. You have saved it by saying that you need a proper evaluation framework. I don't know exactly what this is about the evaluation framework itself. Because we need to compare the system at the national and international levels in order not to deceive ourselves. Or what we're... Or what we're going to do is manufacture an evaluation system to make sure it tells us what we want it to tell us? Mr Arrese, I congratulate you on your academic results. When I was talking about mother tongues, obviously I was talking about official mother tongues. Obviously. Obviously. Anyway, you called me you don't know what. I think he meant Basquephobic. But I'm used to being called things. Don't worry, this doesn't alter me substantially. And with regard to Mr Pastor, I would like to say that, first of all, thank you very much for your advice on my personal image. I thank you for your concern. And I also understand that you think it's a trick for me to bring certain matters to this House. But understand that someone has to bring us. And as long as I'm here, I'll keep doing it. It is not true that my interventions were apocalyptic. In fact, if you review them, and it is in the Journal of Sessions, you will notice that I have not added any adjectives or very few adjectives to the objective data of ISEI-IVEI. There's the data. All I'm proposing is that we don't pretend they don't exist. Then, therefore, what it is really about is to do something very simple: take account of the data and make a diagnosis to analyze in depth what the causes are. I started by saying that I'm not sure my diagnosis is the right one. I've given them some clues. If they don't serve, they don't. But let someone objective, not me, make the right diagnosis. What we can't do is like this has never really existed, has it? And Mrs. Arrizabalaga has drawn my attention to the fact that evaluations burden the devil. Yes, of course, because they can bring results that we don't like. But you have to do it. They're essential. I repeat, we need to compare ourselves at national and international levels. Look, this is very simple. There's some data on the table I think we can't miss. If you want to, you'll miss them. But I don't think they should get over it. And I think they should be obviating for the sake of Basque education. I believe that what we have to do, what we should do, is to face reality, accept the results and propose and schedule measures that are consistent with the diagnosis about what the causes of that problem are. But the problem I understand is not hidden as much as we divert attention from other issues that have nothing to do with or referring to other indicators, which, by the way, are always the same, and then they call me simplistic about it, other indicators that have nothing to do with it either. We are talking about the problem of results in mathematics, in language, in Basque and in science. That is the specific problem we are talking about. Focus on that, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together Podemos-Toy won't speak. Meet EH, Mr. Arrese... He mustn't speak. Basque Socialita, Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u89	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr Gil, we do not see it, this government does not see it, quite the contrary; it is you who are obviating part of the data and who are interpreting it on the basis of only the data that interest you. Guk Konstziente race. Professionalak konstzienteak will say. What is the challenge? It's a big challenge. Multiplicity, cohesion of society, equity, excellence. We're clear where we want to go. And that's the agreement to determine the foundations of the education system in the future. And in it, as Mr. Pastor said, there's an evaluation, in fact. The improvement apparatus puts the deals in value. We're betting on a frame of special evaluation. So the evagnostic evaluation is necessary because they determine the improvement lines. But these cannot be used, as I said, as a weapon against the Government. He's not honest. And that's how Mr. Gil did. And it's not self-proof. We're ready to take steps to give the situation and the needs that our education system has, we're ready to go, the department is ready, it's ready for you. And thus we have shown in the agreement of education which we have just received, the consent of the grounds for transforming euscal educational system. XXI. A confession is there made. that the domestic euscal society, like so many other communities in Europe, is engaged in a process of modification, with constant change and uncertainty in its chief features. Euscalal education has played a ridiculous role in the last decades, which structures a new reality... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... that the chief features are. Euscalal education has played a ridiculous role in the latest decades, which structures a new reality. And this reality has become a common and shared property. To add to our manners, or our conduct of culture. The combined action of institutions and societies has been the key to it, and must remain so. It's time to look sharp at Euscala education. To realize the culture of innovation, to appreciate the scientific contributions which may apply to the process of education, to have powerful students who are the active subject of learning, and even the teachers and families who guide and assist students. Build a formal and non-form school organized. It is therefore time to leave the usual inertia and confort marks, to face the essential problems of education, and seek a fair solution, and the means to satisfy society. This is my commitment. Self-consciousness zero, certainty and responsibility, stability, but no headlines, Mr. Gil. What is your proposal, Mr Gil? What's your magic formula? If you don't even... does not even call for the diagnosis to be made in the motion. Which one is it? The revision of teaching methodologies? As usual, the Department of Education does the same with improving the system of selection and access, with initial training, with continuing training. He comes here today as if he's going to discover the gunpowder. With a totally obsolete proposal, which have nothing to do with, nothing to do with, what the Basque education system needs. It has nothing to do with it. That is why I encourage you again to join our agreement, to work with the rest of the groups to achieve that educational excellence that appeals so much. And that's why I want to thank Mr. Passor, Mr. Arrese and Mrs. Gonzalez, because the half-line text today is moving forward, because we have to go there, all together. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. End of discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Gil Vegas's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 73; votes given, 73; supporters, 6; opponents, 67; Absences, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u91	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote together with Podemos-Nozzerz, Euskal Sozialists, EH Collectors, and the middle-term corrections signed by Euzers. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 73; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 6; abscessions, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-04-27.u92	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two o'clock in the afternoon and forty-nine.
