ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I remember that the tenth point on the subject will be discussed after the fourteenth point, and that the nineteenth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, Louis Javier Tellería Sheetols of the Eubertarians to the president, the first quarter of 2022 strategy to continue." Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u1	The head of the table, the president, the chief of the departments, the parliamentary members, all good days at Lourdes Day. Last Friday, January 28, the last budget of LABI advice was made. Last... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... Last Friday, January 28, the last budget of LABI advice was made. During the last two weeks, pandemia's indicator seems to have been a positive change, especially in the hospital pressure. The same tendency is happening around us. Commercial economic and commercial activity has returned. The previous course has gone back to school quite normal. He's getting back on sports and culture, and the hopes of the tourist sector are positive too. Complete vaccination schedule has exceeded 93% of the population over 12 years of age, and is close to 60% the first dose among those under 12 years of age. This is one of the most positive vaccination balances in Europe. For the past few weeks, he's planning a discussion on how to pass from a pandemy to an endemia. Some facts of search are hopeful, and some doubts and uncertainty about certain indicators are also preserved. In this context, the LABI met yesterday and took decisions that encourage optimism. Testuinguru hori kontuan hartuta, lehendakaria, zein da lehen hiruhileko honi begira jarraitu beharreko strategy?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mr. Tellegioía, it's true that the indicators of the pandemo are showing positive development. We have had a descending tendency to strengthen itself from January. At the same time, we have improved in the occupations of hospitals and ZIU, which, in this case, deserves to be considered with the recovery of the descending tendency. In order that this lower tendency might continue, we decided to prolong two weeks ago the measures already taken by force at the LABI Council. That decision brought us good results. Now we proceed with attention, as you have said, whether we pass from a pandemia to an end or not. The virus influence is coming down in the health system and social activity. In any case, the institution of the World of Health appointed pandemy, and he continues to do so. Today, almost two years later, we know that pandemia has not disappeared. We know that the mutation capacity of virus is dangerous, even the deficit insertion in the wide world areas. What we know is that which is most likely to be compared is that of the dead. Our strategy gives priority to one word: recovery. We are prepared for this priority objective: to recover the health service in its entirety and to overcome the emotional and uncertain situation of our society. We are aware of what has been fought and what has been suffered. Aware of all that has been achieved to maintain the balance between the priority of public health and social, educational and cultural, economic or commercial activity. LABI made a recovery decision yesterday. The Government is focused on fulfilling its commitments and responding to the new challenges that the pandemic has revealed: focusing on youth and supporting training, employment and housing priorities to develop an autonomous life; ensuring social cohesion and curbing new inequalities; reformulating the care system and addressing the loneliness of older people; avoiding social isolation and the digital divide that can lead to the hypertechnologicalization of daily relationships and efforts; and anticipating opportunities for the green and digital transformation of the global economy. Youth, social cohesion, care system, economic transformation, recovery and recovery. This is the strategy of the Basque Government. It is also our willingness to share this Euskadi impulse. Hemos resisto y hemos respondo, y moutha vamos a avanzar. We have solid grounds, all indicators show the good development of the Esscal economy, even of the employment. We have the smallest rate of unemployment among all the members of the community. We're keeping our budget. To restore economics and employment, rebirth and Euskadi The goal is not to go back to the previous state; the goal is to step back and save process to the three transformations. I mean, a purely technological, neurotic transformation, a demographic analyst and social. Euskadi restart and transform, that's the strategy for the next months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the parliamentary members of the World Series of Maddalen, upon the examination of the President on his present state." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u5	Good morning, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. It seemed interesting to me that this difference between the pandemia and the legend which Mr. Telllería has brought to this table. Most of the constraints have been abandoned, it seems that the sixth wave is passing. But yet, I think, we are still in a state of indifference, because we do not know what we are going to do, and because we know not what other waves are going to happen to us, and we do not know how to deal with the circumstances. But, above all, I wanted to talk about Osabaz today, and most of all I wanted to put him on the table with my pants full. For this month, most of the union unions in the Osacists have called two huelgas, even in their first attention and in general, a demonstration has been called. All these have been announced before the difficult situation of January 23rd, together with thousands of people who suffer this situation, go out into the streets... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... All these have been announced before the difficult situation of January 23rd, together with the thousands of people who suffer this situation, because they have not gone out into the streets, and after that there has been no change, because the restrictions have not been interrupted. No answer, when they say they're in a state of collapse, they get up from the sactorial table. The pandemia is dreadful, no doubt, but it merely surfaces the decay of the shell. And this wave will pass, but the situation of Osardo is not going to work with a band-aid. You've just been talking about recovery, and we'll keep talking about this subject, because I think it's interesting. Whenever we talk about this, you repeat to me that Basque citizenship gives a very high note to Osakidetza; and the truth is that, for example, in the last deustobarometer that note falls. But, look, despite the exhaustion, despite the cuts, despite the collapse situation, once the patient gets to the hands of Osakidetza's staff, in general, the attention is excellent. Nahikoa bath of itxarongela batan egotea, egora zer-nolako tenkatuta dagoen ikusteko. And beyond verbal recognition, beyond applause, I think we have to get to work for decent working conditions, and to meet - and I want to underline this, to meet - the challenges of Osakidetza's future. In the past 10-12 years, there hasn't been any apparent bets in order to strengthen the medical health, it's at the moment 5% of the raw internal procedure of 5,2%; 12 years ago, 5%.3%. For us, it's a priority theme. That's why we wanted to put on our budgets with another 30 million targets. But the community and public health require much more than this, because to invest in health is to invest in the future, in the right and equality of persons. And, as things are, and in front of our hinges, apart from the workers, I think, Mr. Urkullu needs a change of paradigm. We have to be prepared for the other difficult situation that might lead to us, but we need a change of paradigma. El system plubicco de salud no ha recedido a nuestro juicio la gatención que dirante los úllimus años. Necesita un reseteo, un cambio de paradigma; hay que ponerlo en el centro de las pollias plublicas. We're talking to unions, and we're gonna have to talk to each other. And we're gonna have to talk together how we get these demands and how to change them, how to transform them, bring them back to life. "Ynjaemos para reforzar la gatención prima, retomar la prescialidad, lo que no covied, lo que que que que que que quedado axando, dignificor las condicales delmil, auretar las lamilillas, dotars de stability, readyiglas, phrenar fuga de tatoratos, doora neces ades landas dellandamenta de. As I say, Osama needs a complete change of paradigma, I think. And for that purpose there is no one to spare; there is no one to spare. This, too, is a subject to which we must study as a people, and which we must cultivate with all the mixed sectors, because Osature is a right, because health is a right, and vice versâ. What we have to do is look at the foot of the century's hinges...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, you are asking me for an analysis of the present state of the President's analysis of the present situation. And although I shall speak afterwards to Osace, or the Health Department, yet my analysis is as follows: we have received a great blow, and have hitherto restrained it, and now it is time to recover. We have a very strong foundation for this purpose. After the Resistance, it's time to renew the forces. My analysis, then, is this: the more united and stronger the process of reform will be, and I am grateful for your honesty. It's true that we've been attacked by a global pandemy, and the consequences have been terrible throughout the Euscadin and the planet. It's true, too, that he's held up from Euskka, that the health system has answered and still continues to react. Problems, public service is overreacting the records, and the Euskion is doing all the commitment, and it has, in connection with the Osacence and the health system, it is reflected in the budget, it is reflected in the undertakings, and it will become reflected, even in the course of our activities. We are among the most Diagnostic countries to test. We're on the European leaders' team in the main course insertion. According to IE's data, we are among the communities that have had least death during the covid period. We have retained previous education, culture and sports activities have been maintained, and the growth of economics has been restored before we thought, and we have reduced unemployment to less than 10%, a community with the least unemployment in the state, and the predictions are positive. We have a strong foundation to reform and to modify. We have accepted exact challenges for this year: To recover all the raw internal product that has been lost through the pandema, to continue to create employment, especially among the young ones and to be most of the people in Social Security, to develop the hydroge corridor as an investor project and a tractor, to place between six countries in Europe with the least social difference, to invest three global transitions and the highest sum ever invested. We're moving on. Thanks to the recovery of the trade and the dyamism of industry, the Euscal economy has strengthened its life. The recent BBVA report corroborates the growth scenario of the Basque economy. It confirms the forthcoming recovery of GDP and employment at pre-pandemic levels; these challenges fall within well-defined priorities. We have the Basque model of sustainable human development. We are guided by the commitments of the 2030 Agenda. The first objective is social cohesion, equality and inclusion in a society of growing diversity. The second focuses on youth: creating conditions that make possible the construction of their life and family projects with autonomy. The third objective is to strengthen the sense of community vis-à-vis individualism and social disintegration vis-à-vis what might also be that lack of empathy or solidarity in general, to strengthen solidarity... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... and social disintegration in the face of what may also be that lack of empathy or solidarity in general, strengthening solidarity and shared civic values. All this in a global and dynamic reality subject to change and constant uncertainty. We live in a transcendental juncture to recover from the pandemic blow, relaunch Euskadi and promote social, economic and ecological transformation. We can talk, I don't think it's an excessive term on my part, of a founding time, of a new era of recovery between launch and transformation. This is my analysis of the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Ekain Rico, a member of the Basque Sozama Socialists, of the second vice president and the head physician of Eplegus, the settlements obtained at the Spanish table." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone, and good morning, Mrs. Vicelehendakari. The workers of Euskadi we are, are, congratulations, because since last week, and despite many and above the noise and the Tamayazo that tried to perpetrate the right in the Congress of Deputies, we have a well-validated labor reform in the Congress that, arising from social dialogue, which is already in itself a value, represents a giant step in the fight against precariousness and temporality, and a substantial improvement in the working conditions of the workers. And the data is there. Just one example. Already in January, thanks to the changes made, the indefinite contracts passed in Euskadi from 9 to 12%, and this positive development we are going to see how it grows. As you know, Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, the Socialists advocate preserving the agreements adopted at the Social Dialogue Table, that of the Basque Country or that of Spain, because we do not have that contradiction. And this agreement of the social dialogue table in Spain, validated last Thursday, recovers many of the rights stolen from the workers by the unilateral reform of the government of Mariano Rajoy. It introduces effective measures to combat precariousness and temporaryity, as well as to strengthen collective bargaining at the heart of the new framework of labour relations. This is a good reform for Euskadi, where we were already taking firm steps on the road to recovery and by the hand of social actors, and where the policies promoted by the Department of Labour and Employment are bearing fruit: since September 2020, 30,000 unemployed fewer and 20,000 more members of Social Security. That is why we are sure that many citizens of Euskadi still cannot understand why last Thursday some of the parties that sit here put, with their vote against, this agreed reform in danger, when, moreover, that would have meant the added punishment to the workers of continuing to suffer the labour reform of the People's Party. But, Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, the Socialists were there; and with our vote we have made it possible for this agreement of the social dialogue table - which is good for Euskadi and for its workers - to be a reality today. And in this sense we want to ask you how it affects this agreement, this labor reform to the working people in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u12	Ladies and gentlemen president, good morning to all of you. Well, there's been a lot of political noise, but we have to remember what's essential today: the agreements between the several are good. They make progress, and in this case in a double game, because the patronials and the unions know each other to understand each other, and because Congress has guaranteed that way. And the agreement is objectively good for the Basque Workers and the entire Basques. Because the weakest workers can recover their rights and wages, which is always good for the whole society and even for cohesion. Because he offers stability and legal security in his relationship with Europe because he sends him a message of trust, which is essential to the modification of our economy. Therefore, here no one loses, we all win, and fundamentally the workers in the most vulnerable situation. It's the possible deal here and now. That is not all, of course, what the Spanish Government is aspired to, nor what we are aspired to from the Basque Government, trade unions or employers, nor does it fulfil the ambition of each of the parties, but precisely because it is nobody's, it is everyone's. Good news, therefore, for Euskadi. It is for the more than 59,000 people with their fallen agreements. They are unprotected because the previous reform eliminated ultraactivity, and that is what will stop happening. There are thousands who work in subcontracts, without agreements or with company agreements that improve their conditions to benefit the sectors, which become the minimum reference. And there we have the teleoperators and teleoperators, the kellys and a long et cetera. Also because the contract by definition will be the indefinite one. Works contracts disappear, which are used abusively to hire one, two, three days, which were more than 200,000 last year. And this is essential, because it is one of our main challenges in times of crisis and also in times of growth. In the last year more than 860,000 contracts signed in Euskadi, 781,000 were temporary and just over 80,000 indefinite. The Labour Inspectorate regularizes all contracts that are made in law fraud. Thus we were able to make indefinite 6,444 contracts in the year 2021. But such short contracts are not only precarious jobs, and they are even affecting disaster, because there is no time to give them adequate training in risk prevention. In addition, ERTE is being improved, a network to support employment that leaves layoffs as a last option in the event of difficulties. All this without hindrance to the continued signing of agreements in Euskadi that will improve the conditions of our workers. There is nothing to prevent us from pursuing this path, the one contained in the interprofessional agreement that this Government expressly endorses, which commits the parties to seek these improvements through collective bargaining. That's the way, moving along with the social partners. And I expressly reaffirm the role played by the social dialogue table in Euskadi and the commitment of those who participate in it... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... in agreement with the social partners. And I expressly reaffirm the role played by the Social Dialogue Table in Euskadi and the commitment of those who participate in it. Voluntary absences do not delegitimate only one of the agreements reached to date. Thus, above and beyond noise, this reform contributes to the economic and social reconstruction of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Podemos IU team made to the president about the state of the Basque Medical Service." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u14	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President. On the other day, January 23rd, we all saw thousands of people go out to the street, the first collapse of their attention, and demand more resources to the government. And this is a reasonable account, because it is reasonable that the men of public health are full of protests, because they are full of it, and receive no satisfactory answers to public powers. Labour, boredom, impotence, inability to provide a worthy and worthy public service. So that's the reason for the protest, and all that's reasonable. It is not so rational or so intelligible to all these requests of resisting the impossibility shown by the government, that the government has had sufficient time to perceive and to form such problems as are of structure and structure, which are in the Osacy, which have increased or exposed the Pandemonies, as is necessary to prevent them. To protect the workers of the board, and to support the health of the whole community. The unions have called again. And in front of this, we'd like to know, and this is our question, how does the government see to answer the orders made by workers of the Osaleg? How does the Government plan to make or respond to the demands of the workers in Osakidetza who will be reflected in the strike that has been called?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. In the previous question Mrs. Irries asked me what an analysis I make of the present situation, and then it became focused on the question of Osalist. Now the question is a direct question about Osacys, so my answer is to you both, though I have answered the first question in general. It's true that Osax has problems since the beginning of pandemia, just like all medical services in the world. It is true, too, that Osacides has answered these questions, a high degree of answer. It's not true that, as you tell me in your justification, there is a dissolution. On the contrary, a member has more resources than he has ever had today. Membership had a $3,800 million budget in 2019, which is now $4,300 million. Euskadin 1.984 euros per person of health, and we are the first community of the whole state. We're working on 1919 with a job of 40.900 professionals, now it's 45.700. And the membership is running a public offer of 3,535 jobs. The whole Eukongy event is to keep public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u18	The truth is that I don't understand how you can make such a self-congratulating reading of Osakidetza's situation. I think it is obvious that the situation is not good, it is not flattering. The government, moreover, has allowed... there is no face-to-face attention for so long, no face-to-face attention, no human means to answer the phone, appointments to be made at three months; that's what's happening. There is no, there is not enough medical personnel, neither in primary care nor in pediatrics. That is also a reality. The nurses' union a long time ago, before the pandemic was telling us that there are no nurses to do replacements. And, in addition, and we know, and the Government knows, this situation is going to get worse, because it turns out that much of Osakidetza's staff is over 55 years old and the troops are not being repaired in a way necessary to deal with this lack of personnel. Osakidetza's problems are structural. It is true that the pandemic has brought them out, but the problems come from before, they are structural. They are the result of concrete public policies: the cuts that began in 2008 and lack of overall planning, and lack of staffing also, a great lack of staffing. In any case, (...) we do not want to insist on what has not been done or done, but it has been done wrong, and we would like to look a little forward. And by making our own the demands of the staff of Osakidetza, who are going to manifest or who are going to express themselves in a strike in the near future, we would like to know exactly, because this helps us a lot to know what the future of Osakidetza is going to be. Does this government intend to increase Osakidetza's budget to 7% by 2023? Do you intend to allocate 25% of what is spent on health care to primary care? Do you intend to hire more people to streamline workloads? Does the government intend to end once and for all the time that affects more than 40% of the workforce? These are the fundamental questions to be answered, because the pandemic is not incompatible with taking steps to find solutions to these problems, which are not short-term, but structural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. I've known and understood problems and difficulties for so long. We have all lived these difficulties, here and in the world, Mrs. But obviously it's not time to call a strike, it's time to continue to ensure attention and public health. I understand the difficulties, neither deny them nor hide them. However, Basque health cannot be criticized and criticized when it is the best valued in the whole State by the Federation for the Defense of Public Health. I read the conclusion of the 2021 report: "Euskadi is the community with the best health services across the state, and 83% of Basques think that health works well." Now, we do not conform, we continue to act; despite the pandemic, we are acting, we continue to act and improve. We cannot talk about dismantling or structural problems. We have a problem, yes, and it is the shortage of medical personnel specialized in family medicine and community health. A problem in Euskadi and in all the communities and countries in our environment, Mrs Gorrotxategi. This problem is not solved by a strike. Osakidetza expands infrastructure, new hospitals and health centers, new external consultations, surgical block and new Txagorritxu emergencies. This year we will invest 107 million in 39 facilities and equipment. You can't talk about precariousness. Osakidetza has the largest number of professionals in its history: in December, 4,800 more than two years earlier. We have hired retired staff; we have convened an OPE for 3,535 professionals, and 84 of the previous OPE's specialties are resolved. We do not spare resources: more MIR places, authorized the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Deusto; new faculty of the UPV/EHU; new strategy of socio-health care with the out-of-town diputations; the link and integration of Onkologikoa is a reality; opening of four new mental health resources. Despite the pandemic, we are acting and we are going to continue acting. Therefore, I reiterate that Euskadi is the community with the best health service in the entire State according to the 2021 report of the Federation for the Defense of Public Health. Is it self-congratulation? No, it is an incentive to remain involved, as we have been doing for many years, in improving public health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, the member of the Ciudadans made to the president about the state in which the battle against the pandemese is fought." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, good morning. When LABI announced yesterday the end of most restrictions, I think it is a good time precisely to take stock of the pandemic, as we are all doing here today. We all remember that defeatist message, if I may say so, that you had the end of the year, the message of someone who, in the absence of proposals, places duties on others, but those who still do not do their duties are, from our point of view, you and your government. That's why he wanted to extend restrictions while other communities were lifting them. And that's why we're tailing on so many indicators, because you've remembered - and done well - that the pandemic continues among us. As in the previous ones, the Basques have experienced the worst situation with the greatest restrictions. May your government continue to give bandages does not help, lehendakari. Twenty days ago you appeared euphoric selling optimism; a few hours later you proposed the extension of restrictions, without arguments or justifications, and that is why you received up to the umpteenth judicial warp, and we have already lost count of how many. This shows that their management did not bring certainty or stability. Because their pessimism, their bandages impact on the citizens, on the confidence undermined by their decisions or by the lack of them. Ask in the primary care, overflowing, which remains unreinforced two years later. Ask about the problems with the Osakidetza workers. Also to the hospitality, to the tourism, the shows, even the trade that during all that time have lived every announcement of his government as a jar of cold water. Either the self-employed without activity, or the thousands of Basques still in ERTE, unfortunately. While you have gone out of your way with the tax collection records, you still do not put those resources at the service of recovery, especially with those sectors hit by long restrictions. We need a government focused on things to eat, on what concerns families, the self-governing, the Basque companies. Allow me to dedicate your time to that, your government, rather than squandering on all other issues with your partner, Mr Sánchez, or attacking entrepreneurs who create jobs for free. That is why I ask you, lehendakari: How do you assess the situation of the fight against the pandemic in the Basque Country?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. You say, Sir, that last year I ended up in a pessimist, and that's not the way it was, I'm not careful. At the end of December, I pronounced it in the worst moment of this sixth wave and read it in words: "We have been able to overcome five waves and overcome this sixth wave." It's been a month and a half, and we can prove that we've been through the worst of the sixth wave. We're not negative, we're positive, we're not going to lose our attention and care. After the decision of yesterday, I look at the future with hope and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u26	Lehendakari, we refer to the facts. In December we saw - as I say - the reality, the image of a lehendakari, from our point of... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... Lehendakari, we refer to the facts. In December we saw, as I say to you, the reality, the image of a lehendakari, from our point of view, shot down at the head of a government out of hand and without ideas. Ten days ago Mrs. Sagardui, remember, was talking again about tense health, in outpatient clinics, they say, collapse, not tension. And he brought data that believed that the sixth wave gave way too much space. You go from bandage to bandage. They disassemble teams of trackers, then they overflow the sixth wave, one day they sell optimism, others want to extend restrictions or extend the covid passport without argument or justification, etc. After the court trial, they renounced the appeal and the covid passport. And this very Monday they wanted to keep the mask outdoors. On Tuesday they agreed to soften limitations. They contradict each other over the mask in the school yard, etc., etc. But the Basques continue to ask a number of questions. And we ask ourselves, lehendakari: Why do we have, wave after wave, the worst data with the greatest restrictions in Euskadi? Is there anyone willing to take responsibility for it? How and when will primary care be strengthened, to avoid the scenes that we have experienced again and have experienced health personnel? How much money from these surplus collections will be used to combat the effects of the pandemic and its erratic measures? How and when will you support so many sectors abused by your Government? When will your government decide on all this? That is why, Lehendakari, we already know that reality has passed over it, like everyone else, unquestionably, but it does not limit itself to taking note and putting defeatist faces, making decisions, to be able to be, correct and well-founded, provide confidence, provide certainty, and do so, because, otherwise, it would confirm the impression that we have many people from a exhausted Lehendakari and a government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u27	Thank you, sir. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, don't demagogically compare data between communities. You can go to the sources of the Ministry of Health. There are many communities that have presented worse data than Euskadi for several weeks now. In any case, this short-term reading that you do is not relevant, because cycles are advanced or delayed, but end up being similar. The important thing is that Euskadi is at the head of the test and vaccination, and has one of the lowest mortality rates in the state, according to INE data. The Community of Madrid three times higher. I invite you to conduct an honest analysis of published information on the situation in the communities and countries in our environment. I suppose you are more than aware of what has happened to the Omicron variant, Mr Iturgaiz. In previous waves the day with the most positive, in July 2021, we had 1,800; with Omicron we reached 14,000. The highest rate, in July 2021, was 873; with Omicron the rate of 7,000 has been exceeded. This week we are in a consolidated downward phase. Of the 14,000 positives we have dropped to 1,578 today. In the ICUs we have gone from 143 people admitted on January 16 to 81 yesterday. In this context, two weeks ago the LABI decided to extend the measures in force until next Sunday, with the aim of consolidating the downward trend in the incidence. Thanks also to the effectiveness of these measures, the situation has improved. And the LABI yesterday was able to start a new stage. As far as the economic sectors are concerned, Mr Iturgaiz, we have authorised a new allocation of EUR 22 million to help the hotel industry, especially night entertainment. They are the highest aid in the whole State. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have allocated 5.1 billion to the needs of families, businesses, economic sectors, trade, education or culture. And we do it because the recovery of the whole needs the recovery of every part of this country, every sector, every company, every family. And we will continue to do so because we are committed to social, economic and emotional recovery and to the revival of Euskadi. To conclude, and also to understand the key to institutional relations with your parliamentary group and with you, Mr Iturgaiz, since you relate this government and the Basque Nationalist Party to the Spanish government in matters that do not come to light in these sessions, since your mention of me as a partner of Pedro Sánchez is frequent, as you have done today, I will ask you for an important clarification in the interests of institutional relations. When last Saturday you spoke of the scum around the Sánchez government in reference to the partners of the Spanish government, did it also include the lehendakari, or the Basque government, or the Basque Nationalist Party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho Group, a member of the United States of the United States, to think that exceptional policies are absurd in the society of Euskals." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. A few days ago, the person responsible for Equality, Justice and Social Policy defended an individualized prison policy in a media environment, taking into account the crime committed and the circumstances of the victims. Mrs Artolazabal made explicit reference to ETA prisoners and how ten years after ETA stopped killing emergency policies make no sense in current Basque society. These are certainly declarations of great importance in the Basque Country, which must also be clarified by the highest official of the Basque Government, which is you, Mr Lehendakari. And it is both important for their families and for Basque society in general, that we should know what the Basque Government's intention is with the prisoners of ETA and what steps will follow the rapprochement of prisoners. Therefore, Mr Lehendakari, we ask you: Why do you consider that emergency policies do not make sense in today's Basque society?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, the word is yours to answer. [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, the reason is that emergency policies make no sense either in Euskadi or anywhere where a rule of law prevails. And the answer to your question is summed up in a basic axiom of democracy: we are all equal before the law, and the law must be equal for all. I wonder, and I wonder, if your party shares this basic principle of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u34	Mr Lehendakari, today we are going to talk about prison exceptions; the day we are aware of these exceptional conversations by Whatsapp with known ages or with those of, from Sare, they are watching over these rights. In the act in which her adviser defended the end of the dispersion and the execution of sentences outside the Basque Country, Mrs Artolazabal made a fiery defense of the Basque model of prison management; the one that equates prisoners of ETA with any other type of prisoners, obviating that many of them are genocidal killers, whose victims had a common denominator, which was to be Spanish. Thus, he advocated for the individualized treatment of each prisoner; that is, taking into account the crime committed. But it didn't clarify whether to blow up a car bomb or hit a shot in the back of the neck deserved a different deal or not. Nor did he speak of the circumstances of the victims, and in this case we are not clear whether there is any difference between those who know that the perpetrators of the attacks are in prison and those hundreds of people who still do not know; the indirect victims of nearly 380 ETA crimes. She said this by obviating that in terms of ages the individualized treatment is inviable. Among other things, because his strategy has always been to present himself as a homogeneous collective, and, in fact, in the purest Mafia style One of our, there have been few prisoners who have demarcated themselves from the general doctrine. That is, they insist on presenting themselves as a collective and follow the strategy designed by the ETA environment to facilitate their approach to Basque prisons, also to obtain the progression of degree and enjoy a freedom that many do not deserve. Even the judges of the National Court are messing with this strategy, refusing to give for good the recognition of the pain caused by the signature of a type document never personalized, in which neither includes nor demands the word "repentance". The list that the ETA environment demands not to go beyond is, precisely, repentance; as is that of collaboration with justice for the clarification of unresolved cases. Thus, there is not a single member of ETA who has provided details to identify those responsible for all crimes of unknown authorship. And don't forget that the victims themselves will have to say something about it. And they say: without collaboration there is no progression of degree possible. I wonder if you will add to the exceptionality of treating prisoners of ETA as any other prisoner a growing benevolence for the granting of progressions of degree sustained in their good behavior in prison, in their participation in training workshops of various kinds. Mr Lehendakari, we also saw the other day the statements of the director of Aukerak made just one day after those made by Mrs Artolazabal, and two days later, in addition to what exactly Sare claimed. He pointed in the same direction, saying that the crime committed was of little relevance to him, that in order to offer a job and promote social reintegration the crime is of no importance. The contradiction, as you see, is evident; some say one thing, others say another. Mr. Urkullu, what version do you have left? Will an ETA killer have the same benefits as a common criminal?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, on issues that this government has not participated in, talks, etc., I believe that this is another area in which you have to ask. In any case, I assure you that the assumption of competence in prison matters has indeed generated confidence in Basque society. It trusts because it involves complying with the Constitution and the Statute of Gernika and putting an end to the anomaly of its non-compliance. Trust because it allows for the management of the reintegration and social reintegration of persons sentenced from close proximity, because it allows to add to the prison policy public policies of health, education, social protection, security, equality or employment. Trust us because we open the door to a model of reintegration that gives opportunities to all prisoners and prisoners, regardless of the crime committed, without different treatment. We live a new reality, longed for for decades. More than ten years ago, ETA's terrorist activity ended. ETA no longer exists. It is time to rethink whether any of the legal emergency, criminal and prison measures adapted in the context of the terrorist scourge continue to have meaning years after the disappearance and dissolution of ETA. It is not possible to solve today's problems with the intended solutions of yesterday. That is why we support the necessary legal reforms to promote the constitutional purposes of custodial sentences and, I repeat, constitutional purposes. In any case, our prison system caters to all prisoners alike. Our goal is to facilitate reintegration in an individualized way, and never forget the restorative perspective towards the victims. And do not mix the Basque Government with what is the responsibility of prison policy legislation. The Basque Government implements the law in accordance with the principles of equality and non-discrimination. Prison legislation must be the same for all citizens. Euskadi is not going to make exception policies that discriminate against some people over others. To all prisoners, regardless of the crime they committed... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... Euskadi is not going to make exception policies that discriminate against one person over another. All prisoners, regardless of the crime they committed, must be subject to the same legislation and the same prison policy. We are talking about the core of a democratic conception of politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Interpelation. "Interadectition, the Greystalian Maderina, the First Vice President, and Security Chief of the Mistho group, on the survival of the symbols of the terrorism in the Eucadian world." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by acknowledging that today's situation is not that of 15 years ago, even less that of the 1980s; that is clear. Those of us who have combed canas, who have lived the torture of ETA almost since its birth, until we get used to the posters, the paintings, the exaltation of terrorism in the public street, in the streets and squares of our towns and cities, in the facades of almost any building. We have lived with the "Gora ETA", the axe and the snake, the targets with names and surnames, the visible threat that almost became permanent. And I would also like to acknowledge the initiative of the only non-nationalist Basque Government, that of the López cabinet, which in 2009 sealed an agreement with Eudel for the elimination of all those hurtful and humiliating images for the victims of terrorism, to prevent ETA and its environment from using streets, squares and facades for the exaltation of terrorism, and of those who killed, kidnapped, extortioned and threatened. By the way, an agreement signed by Rodolfo Ares, a socialist, and a acquaintance of this House, the Education Adviser, Mr Bildarratz. In a short time, the scenery changed. In a short time were many posters and painted removed from circulation, erased and forgotten. It was three years of struggle against the exaltation of terrorism in the public street, which fell into oblivion as soon as the PNV took over again under the command of the Basque Government. And the result is that we can all see: protera symbolism in many towns and cities in the Basque Country and Navarre, especially in areas of marked abertzale profile. Where nostalgic people live from the years of lead, from political imposition through the use of violence, but also in others where ideological diversity is remarkable. Even today, messages like this, "Gora ETA", quite wide, I think we see it all, an important sign, but we can also see in those places those dark targets, as we can see here. And this isn't on the Internet; this is what my team and I pulled out, walking through the streets of the Basque Country. Posters also for the approach of etarras to the Basque Country, which are also becoming part of our urban furniture. Look at what beautiful decoration we have; beautiful. I can also tell you where they are located, in case you are interested; this, for example, is Mondragon, but I have the data of all. Posters that, in reality, are asking for the release of what the left abertzale considers Basque prisoners, which are only those of ETA, the prisoners of Otegi. "Amnesty", Spanish flags marked, "Euskal Herria is not Spain", threats to people of the Ertzaintza to whom they refer as "zipayos"; we also have photographs of those posters. Perfectly visible posters, some of them also occupy huge walls of more than 100 square meters. There are those who have been there for many years, almost as old as the walls that frame them; there are also very recent ones, part of a new wedge strategy in certain municipalities, because it is evident that those new wedges are reflections of a strategy, of a plan. And it is something that the Ertzaintza knows, something that should be recorded and against what needs to be done, Mr Erkoreka: to take a record, to inform the appropriate person and to delete. It is part of what the 2009 agreement envisaged: prevention to prevent paints from arising as mushrooms and surveillance to identify those that adorned the facades in order to proceed to their early elimination. A task for autonomous and local police, but also for citizens tired of living with messages to support ETA and its collection of genocidal killers. The agreement called for special attention at very specific times, at employers' parties and demonstrations, which left behind a multitude of walls steeped in the symbolism of the nostalgics of terrorist violence. It also advised the monitoring of the agreement in the local coordination committees, those which bring together the Ertzaintza and the local police. And it committed budget allocations from the Basque Government to support the clean-up tasks to be carried out by the municipalities. What was the answer to this agreement? The text of the agreement states that both the Basque Government and Eudel were aware that the streets and facades of the Basque Country were used for the exaltation of terrorism, and that this contributed to the humiliation of the victims of ETA. This is in line with the legislation in force, in particular the Act on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism in the Basque Country. As you will know, this legal framework provides that the public authorities shall ensure that victims are treated with respect for their rights, for which, inter alia, they shall take measures to ensure security, and in particular to prevent and prevent the conduct of acts carried out in public involving the discrediting, contempt or humiliation of victims or their families, the exaltation of terrorism, tribute or the granting of public distinctions to terrorists, and shall act in particular against such paintings and posters, and, where appropriate, investigate those that may constitute criminal offences. But all that fell into a broken sac in 2013, during the first government of Mr Urkullu; in fact, between 2009 and 2012 the expenditure on the elimination of this symbolology amounted to about a million and a half euros, while from then until now the figure invested by the Basque government is zero euros. Zero euros. And the images I've shown you -- I have many more, as I told you before -- are very recent; they're not there for a long time, they're taken recently. In other words, the problem persists, but not the awareness of the Basque executive or his involvement in the elimination of these posters and painted. And, allow me a letter, because we all know who's behind this particular form of... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... of the Basque Executive, nor its involvement in the elimination of these posters and painted. And allow me a letter, because we all know who is behind this particular form of urban art. Undoubtedly, they are people involved, educated in victimism and hatred of Spain and the Spanish; they are the same people who, through their media, refer to the civilian guards and police killed by ETA as those who tortured and killed. The tenacity of these nostalgic terrorists is unquestionable, and their playing field is growing, because the administrations let them do it. You yourself, Mr Erkoreka, have demonstrated these days your discomfort with the ETA environmental campaign against Ertzaintza. A campaign that has needed a major economic injection. It would be good to investigate who and how much they have paid for it; and you know, moreover, what doors to call. A campaign that is a veritable aberration. I may not even have to leave this House to deal with it. Special mention also deserves the campaign that has put EH Bildu's environment on the target to the Vitoria Terrorism Victims Memorial, an unequivocal signal of what is the reality in that environment: its contempt for memory and truth, its contempt for the victims and for all those people we claim for them respect, justice and dignity. And his particular Prada, the Abertzale Gara Newsletter, gave us this very week the angry complaint of those who were whining against the appearance of anti-vasc paints in Bayona. An exercise of hypocrisy that I resist to get used to, even though we have lived it a thousand and a few times. They insult, threaten, but let no one touch us. A common behavior that we all know carries the left abertzale. We do not usually agree in our approaches, Mr Erkoreka, but I would like to think that the images and messages I have shown you and what I have spoken to you provoke as much revulsion as it provokes us. It deeply hurts me to see day after day the same sign asking for amnesty for murderers who neither repent nor, of course, cooperate. I was bored by the demand for the release of prisoners so present in our towns and cities, because they understand, or better understand, that when they ask for the "Etxera" manito do not refer to their home being a Basque prison, obviously. I personally don't want you to be in jail, but I want you to fully serve all your sentences, which would be fair. Nor can I say what I think when we meet a target or a nauseous "Gora ETA" painted next to our homes. Messages of support to a gang that counts for hundreds of its mortal victims, for thousands and thousands the direct and indirect victims of its terrorist activity. That is why I am asking you, Mr Erkoreka, about the concrete measures that the Basque Government, in general, and the Security Council, in particular, are going to push to eradicate any hurtful and humiliating symbolism for the victims of terrorism, which could lead to a form of exaltation of ETA's criminal activity and of all those who exercised it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u39	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, I have listened to you carefully, with great interest to your speech today, and you are quite in tune with the text written in your question. And the first thing I'd like to tell you is that I perceive you're accusing of some obsolescence. I'll explain myself. It is not obsolete his claim, his idea, his legitimate aspiration - which many of us share in this House, I dare not say that all - to remove from public space all kinds of messages - whether in the form of banners, paintings, posters, pasquins - that may lead to the rise of terrorism, or an exaltation of terrorists, and humiliation or contempt for the victims. Logically, this claim was as legitimate and plausible in the past as it is now. When I see a certain obsolescence in your inquiry, I am referring, in essence, to the way in which you articulate your approach, because, in fact, you are referring to a 2009 convention, but since then it has been a long time and, above all, in the area to which you refer, a lot has happened, a lot, hasn't it? Many things that have significantly changed the scenario in which such policies can be carried out right now. I quote a few, but the Eudel agreement that you are quoting, of 2009, I will make a clarification. The policies of the Basque Government regarding the deletion of such messages do not start with this agreement or start in 2009; they begin in 2008, immediately after the adoption of the Victims of Terrorism Act in this House, Law 4/2008 of 19 June, immediately after, with a government that is not the one you have wanted to emphasize in particular. They start at that moment. A historical precision that is appropriate for you too to approach the objective truth of the facts. So, it starts then. It is true that the convention dates back to 2009, but it is a convention that, over time, but it expired in 2011, very soon after, the truth is, that after the entry of Law 40/2015 which establishes a very special regime for inter-administrative agreements, it is obvious that it is a law, it is a convention that no longer has effects, that has lost its validity. Secondly, you stress the fact that this agreement was signed by the Home Secretary, but did not do so as a security officer; you did so because at the time the Home Department had assigned, specifically by the Lehendakari Area Decree, a competence to direct and coordinate all Government policies for the care of victims of terrorism. That was the competition title used by the department to implement those policies, and to promote, promote that agreement with Eudel, who, in fact, he signed with, with whom he was then president of the Association of Basque Municipalities. From then on, logically, things have changed. Also that competitive title that was at the time in the Department of Security, then passed to Lehendakaritza, and now, at this time, is assigned to the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy. But there is one additional fact that I would like to add. And it is that this competitive title since 2013 is accompanied, inexorably linked to another that gives it a sense and orientation... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...to add. And it is that this competition title, since 2013, is accompanied, inexorably linked to another that gives it a completely different meaning and orientation, a competition title that speaks of the promotion of human rights and coexistence, because it is clearly considered that everything that has to do with the attention of the victims of terrorism has to be articulated in close, close and direct connection with policies for the promotion of human rights and coexistence because it is a problem of coexistence and human rights. Then, another distinctive fact, the year 2009 ETA was in full activity, as you well know, in that year there were several attacks and, as far as I know, as far as I have been able to record, killed three people. Today more than ten years have passed - as noted in the previous intervention - when ETA's terrorist activity has ceased and is now going on for four years that the organization as such has been dissolved. We are therefore talking about an organization that has been dissolved and that has not been carrying out any terrorist activity for many years. I do not mean by this that what is collected and criminalized in the Criminal Code does not remain so now. The only thing I want to say is something that the Supreme Court has been insisting on and insisting on in recent years, and it is that the very interpretation in application of the precepts of the Criminal Code cannot be done in exactly the same way, of many of them, when the terrorist organization was in full activity and at a time when neither the terrorist organization exists nor the activity that it then developed has any reality and has any form. Of course, all these circumstances have caused coexistence policies to have to be developed now in a radically different context. That's what I meant when I was talking about the obsolescence of your initiative, the context in which these policies have to move is completely different. So what has been done now in recent years in this area, in the area to which you refer? You say it's all gone, and so, it's not all gone. The Basque Government is developing two lines of action in this field: one, which we could describe or place in the field of political pedagogy, linked to the promotion of human rights and coexistence, and the other, let us call it more operational, more operational, which does involve the municipalities, which are directly responsible for keeping the public space clean and without, in addition, such messages that may have criminal content, and also the Department of Security, to the extent that it is responsible and empowered for the prosecution of crimes. The first, the one of a pedagogical or political nature, is articulated in a department that is no longer that of Security; logically, this competence is attributed to the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy. It's not up to me to figure it out, but I could give you a summary. There is a Udaberri 2021-2024 plan in place, which marks the road map of the Basque Government in all that has to do with the collective construction of coexistence. It has been developed not unilaterally by the Government, but in collaboration and contrast with multiple organizations and entities related to the promotion of peace, coexistence, diversity, human rights and also the victims of terrorism. Good. This plan has three agendas; and one of the agendas, which is directly related to victims and memory, is the Basque Agenda for Co-existence. It includes a series of measures, many of which have to do with this pedagogical work, a pedagogical policy, which must be done at the municipal, institutional, but also at the municipal level, to establish or build this space of coexistence: restorative encounters between victims and victims, dialogues between victims of different violence, testimonies of victims in classrooms, forums of coexistence created in different localities. All of them are undergoing a tremendously positive evaluation and all of them have a transformative potential that has been recognized by the actors involved. As far as we are concerned with the subject of his inquiry, this has a very clear projection. This means that if you work and build coexistence, you have to work and build and commit yourself also by building a space, a space, that allows and facilitates coexistence, not a space stained with hurtful, disqualifying messages and that collect the most hurtful and painful aspects of the confrontation of the past. Therefore, this has and is already having a very important effect on the cleanliness of public space and the suppression of public space from these kinds of messages to which we have been referring in the interpellation. Then it is, in one part, the most operative part, which is precisely the removal of public space from these kinds of messages that may occur. Here I will not have enough time in this first intervention to give you details on this particular, but there is a fact that, probably, as a result of these policies that are being driven from the field of promoting coexistence and human rights from the Udaberri 2024 plan, there is an effective contribution to building a space for coexistence and, therefore, the messages of exaltation of terrorism or humiliation of the victims are diminishing ostensibly over the years. You seem to have rediscovered a reappearance now, but you're not. According to information from Ertzaintza, in 2018 we knew 178; in 2019, 76; in 2020, 81; and in 2021, 48. And it operated with all of them in relation to a protocol that for a long time (established?) the Ertzaintza to remove from the public space these kinds of interventions, first of all urging the competent administrations, which are basically the local ones, and operating, if necessary and necessary, in a subsidiary way in the event that the administrations, after several insistent requirements, do not do so. But this is being done. And the impact on public space... in the progressive reduction of this type of messages in the municipal public space is ostensible and evident in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u42	Thank you for your clarifications, Mr Erkoreka, which you have also been very pleased to hear. But the final point is that our streets and cities are still dirty and that something else can be done to eliminate all this kind of ideology that appears printed... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... But at the end of it is that our streets and our cities are still dirty and that something else can be done to eliminate all this kind of ideology that appears printed on our streets. I don't think it's obsolete. And it's not obsolete, from the point where we're the ones who've been all over the Basque Country taking these pictures. Therefore, if it is obsolete it is because they have remained in time but are still there; no solution has been taken on it. There is no doubt, therefore, that the streets and squares of the Basque Autonomous Community continue to have a means used to exalt ETA and its terrorists, and that when one paint is cleaned - which is not very usual - soon replaced by another, it is not strange that they bear a signature, in particular on many occasions those of Ernai, successors of Jarrai, and who here we know perfectly what Jarrai was and what he was capable of, as well as feeding the lists of killers of age. It is a fact that since 2013 the attitude of successive Basque governments has been extremely lax in the task that is their responsibility: to ensure compliance with the Law on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism in the Basque Country in this specific matter; we believe that much more can be done in this regard. No one is surprised that it is the municipalities in which EH Bildu governs where the presence of this symbolology is greater, constituting the urban furniture almost permanent and evident for the eyes of anyone; also for those of the Ertzaintza and the different local police. And the impact of this cartelry, of the proliferation of messages of support for ETA and for the ages, of insulting claims, is a humiliation for all the victims of terrorism, for their families and for all the good people of this region. That is the situation, and I do not want to conclude my speech without sharing some thoughts with you. It is the responsibility of the Administration to ensure respect for the victims, for respect for anyone in those paintings and posters who sees an offence against those who have suffered the terrorist horror for decades. That is, you and the Administration you represent are aware of the power of this symbolology on our streets, in this case, to do precisely pedagogy of violence and terrorism. It is therefore also necessary to increase the involvement of Ertzaintza in this task, as it is of the different local police, because its agents do not escape one of these posters, nor one of these painted ones; I think they give good note of all that they see daily when they patrol our cities and villages. And in addition to recording and reporting their existence, messages and location, it is required that they investigate the authorship of these paintings and posters. You know where to look; surely you know who and when, because you are very well informed about this. In such cases only action remains, Mr. Erkoreka, and they pay for such crimes. The street, as you know, is everyone's, even though they strive to make their own. And in case you don't, don't hesitate to ask me, as I told you before, and I'll give you a detailed reference to each of the paintings and posters that I've located without looking for them; that is, you don't have to go for... No, no. As you walk around finding them; they are in everyone's sight. And I've looked for them and found them traveling this land like a tourist, walking through their streets, squares and roads; I think this is not something that tourists who come here like to see. For example, here you have an image, to this one of which I have referred. It's huge, sure known by Larrabetzu Local Police. Do you see her? They must have seen her, the Ertzaintza. Why is he still there? You haven't seen her, have you? I think it's amazing to see this when you're walking around this area. It is impressive; I hope you will take action, Mr Erkoreka, and within a few days I say thank you for having eliminated it. On the other hand, he also says that it has dissolved; that ETA has dissolved. I would tell you one thing: as we see the situation in the Basque Country, it has changed sides. And I say, "He's changed his side and his position" because now the ETA dome knows where he's headed: he's in charge of EH Bildu. Now one takes off the hood, and becomes the leader of Bildu without blush. And that's what we're seeing as we move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u43	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, well, I have already concluded in my first speech, realizing the progressive reduction that is being observed by the Ertzaintza of the presence of this kind of symbolology. Well, the Ertzaintza has already had a protocol for many years, with a service order that regulates the mode of action it has to observe when it encounters such messages. But I'd like to make a point. It is an order of service that is confined to criminal messages; not to those who are an expression, more or less legitimate, which may or may not be of their liking or mine, but which are the exercise of freedom of expression. Sure, somebody asks for amnesty, doesn't go to jail for it, huh?; is exercising your freedom of expression even if you don't like it or I may not like it or I may have an opinion, whatever it may be. Someone to say that this is not Spain or France is not a manifestation of freedom of expression; what do you want me to say? That's a sign that can be dirty in a city, that maybe the way to channel that message can be another, but that's neither criminal nor illegal; that can't be pursued. That is a message, I insist, that the corresponding municipal official, if he watches over the hygiene and the cleanliness and decorum of his municipality should perhaps erase it, but not because of the illegality of the message that it contains or because it is criminal. That is an important fact: Ertzaintza intervenes when messages have criminal content. When, either we are faced with a message that is an exaltation of terrorism, an exaltation of terrorism or terrorists, when it comes to undervaluation or... Good, good. Yeah, he shows me posters. I got posters here, too, huh? Don't worry, huh? And I also have concrete examples of a "Gora ETA" that was in Llodio, on the occasion of (...) of the Basque Country, and here it is deleted; it is already deleted. I'm on my way to the... the protocol was applied, and it's already deleted. I also have here another "Gora ETA" that is deleted. Here, in Alza, there was not only a message in favor of ETA, an exaltation of ETA. There was also clearly a very harsh criticism of Ertzaintza: a contempt, a understatement; it is also erased. Finally, that the action is being carried out in accordance with the protocols that we have approved within the Ertzaintza, right? But, I insist... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... a contempt, an aminoration. It's also erased. That is to say, the action is being carried out in accordance with the protocols that we have approved within the Ertzaintza. But, I insist, the actions of the Ertzaintza and the public authorities here are strictly confined to messages that have criminal content. And, of course, freedom of expression, and we are talking about what is the limit of freedom of expression, includes, empowers the holder and exercises that freedom to launch and formulate messages that may be contrary to ethics, may be contrary to good taste, may be extremely unpleasant, but with the endorsement and support of freedom of expression. I do not say this, there is a very broad case law, not already of the Constitutional Court, of the European Court of Human Rights, which points in that direction. Therefore, the performance of the Ertzaintza must be strictly limited to what are criminal messages. That is true, when there is a criminal message the protocol is applied, a requirement is made, first of all, to the corresponding municipal authority, for it to operate in the manner that is appropriate, and to the 15 days, if it has not answered, it is again required to do so again. The deletion by the Department of Safety and Security services itself is also envisaged in a subsidiary manner. And, where possible, steps are taken to try to identify the persons, the person or persons, who may have been the authors of that message which is clearly criminal and therefore susceptible to persecution. I insist, I have a list along with examples of such messages that have existed and are no longer in existence, and I have another list - with photographs too - of messages that are, but are in progress. That is, the requirement has already been formulated, it is in progress and probably within a week or a few days will be removed, which does not mean that new ones will not appear, perhaps new ones will appear. Hence the importance of launching, activating and insisting on the pedagogical-political policy to which I referred earlier: the one that has to do with the construction of coexistence and the desirability that in order to build a coexistence in peace, harmonious and democratic, of mutual respect we have a public space in which they do not proliferate such messages that remind, evoke and incite, let us say, a radically different context of coexistence, which has nothing to do with mutual respect and coexistence. Therefore, work has been done, work has been done, but, I insist, strictly on messages of criminal content, criminal exaltation of terrorism, humiliation of victims or hate crimes. In all three cases. The others, who are freedom of expression, what you want me to say, we may like it more or less, may seem more or less decent for the fineness and cleanliness of the city, but they are not criminal and cannot be pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Muriel Larre Lasoa, Popularo Group of the Ciudads, a member of the First Vice Presidents and Security Department of Investigations around the Place Arena. " Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u46	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Councillors, Members of Parliament. I would like to begin today by congratulating the body of the Ertzaintza who has just completed 40 years of history, 40 years serving the whole of Basque society. I appreciate it in conscience, because I know that when I need them they'll be there, as they've always been. Having said that, on January 19 there were some very serious incidents in San Sebastián in the vicinity of the Reale Arena, of which the vast majority of Gipuzcoans and the real society's hobby feel deeply ashamed, because they are facts that do not represent us. The bus of the visiting team, Club Atlético de Madrid, was assaulted and, later, there were incidents that should never have occurred, and less by a football match. Faced with these facts, there can only be two readings: that the incidents have occurred due to disorganization and lack of planning of the event, being thus the CEO of Security the sole and maximum responsible; and that you, Mr. Counsellor, have not realized that the football match between the Real Sociedad and the Atlético de Madrid has been considered a high-risk match for years now. We're not going to explain the reasons right now. But maybe you'll tell me it was an isolated fact, but you know it wasn't. Perhaps you tell me that it was something spontaneous, that it was impossible to know that these facts or similar could not be predicted. You know I don't. Perhaps you will tell me that it was also not so serious to practically stop the bus with insults, threats and shouts to the players and coach of Atlético de Madrid. But you know you don't. It may also not be important to endanger the safety of royal fans who, passing by, could have been involved in incidents without eating it or drinking it: children, the elderly... But you know you don't. It may also not see any importance to the launching of fences, stones and all kinds of objects against Ertzaintza, pyrotechnics; and all coordinated, premeditated, organized and directed. And you won't give it too much importance, but you know you do. Therefore, you know perfectly well, as I know and as everyone knows, that one of two: either you have made the most responsible for safety by allowing these facts to occur and you will have to explain it to us; or, on the contrary, you have allowed, you have looked elsewhere, you have made the Swedish, you have made the three fourteen. In short, he's made a bet. In any case, being this way or the other way, you will have to explain it to us. Because if the facts have occurred because of your inability to direct and coordinate your department, we're going badly. If the facts have occurred by turning a blind eye and looking away, knowing that the sectors of the radical left abertzale were organizing to bind it, and you, even knowingly, consent, because for whatever political reason you think you can get revenue, even worse. Either way, for one reason or another, they are sufficient grounds for us to clarify. And that is why I ask you the following question: What opinion does the preparation of the security device of the Atlético Party of Madrid- Real Sociedad deserve on January 19th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours. I'm sorry, I have to ask the questions... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... Sir, your word is yours. I'm sorry, we have to ask the questions right away, right? Las preguntas... No, you have to ask the questions. Pass (?...?), but they must also be answered from it. No... Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Larrea, there's a point where I'm going to agree with you. I will not say in congratulating the Ertzaintza for its 40th anniversary, because this is ostensible, it is obvious, it is something that the department is promoting with great pleasure throughout this year. In his statement that when he needs support, assistance, support for the Ertzaintza, he will have it with the professionalism, dedication and commitment with which they always do. Having said that, as I have been able to say on previous occasions here in the House, and on questions from some fellow Members of your parliamentary group, this councillor has as a rule not to make public assessments of security devices for two reasons: one, of respect, and the other, of security. Respectfully, because neither this advisor nor the people who make up the political team the Department of Security designs any operations; that is the responsibility of the Ertzaintza professionals, who do so with professionalism, and with the training, and accreditation, and training that they have so much for these menesteres. It would be a ridiculous interference on my part to pretend to condition your work in designing and evaluating police devices. Second of all... I used to say it out of respect. And, secondly, for safety, because it is that a revealed device is a device that is no longer worth anything, it can no longer be used for anything, because you have given everyone clues so that in the future it can operate according to the criteria that are transmitted in that publicity of the operation. Therefore, what I can tell you in this case is that, as in all devices of this nature, in this case, the case to which you refer, the planning was carried out according to parameters typical of sporting events and specifically addressing the circumstances that were in the case. And I remind you that, contrary to what you say, this was not a sport meeting that was declared high risk, it was not; it was described as ordinary risk. Why? Firstly, because there was a 75 % buffer limit imposed by the covid rules. Secondly, because, precisely as a function of and as a consequence of this limitation, the team decided, the club decided not to sell tickets and therefore only the partners had access. And, thirdly, because, precisely because of this, there was no displacement of hobbies, rival amateurs, rival team. Therefore, in these conditions and in these circumstances it is how the operative is designed, I insist, by the professionals of the topic. From there, look, it is always customary in the Ertzaintza that there is a device that has generated some conflict or has generated some difficulty to carry out an assessment, ordered and systematic, so that aspects that are likely to be improved can be identified and applied on future devices, taking into account that there are never two equal devices, that there is never, that what is learned on one device may partly be applicable to another in the future or may not be applicable, because there are no two equal devices. And in this case the evaluation has been made, the conclusions have been drawn, the aspects of improvement have been identified. And, look, yesterday there was a device, one simpler than that, in Bilbao and there was no incident of this nature, because they have been learned and drawn consequences and the improvement measures have been implemented. Thus we are improving through evaluation and self-criticism systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u49	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Miss Larrea... he will not speak. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Mine of the Kortah, which was made by the lawmen of the Union, to the Chief of the Public and Autoberon, concerning the transfer of the minimum income of the BGDS to live." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u50	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Garast. Well, although the case was announced last November, the transfer of the minimum income to live is still going on. There has been a great deal of talk ingreso mínimo vitalal, and it is possible to announce a new arrangement in a few days; it would be a third arrangement. But what is not plain is what will be agreed on. And that's exactly the key in this case, isn't it? Contents. And hearing from the spokesman on the one side and the other, for the last few weeks, the doubts about what you're doing are aroused. It remains unclear what is being talked about and on what terms the transfer is being negotiated. That small letter to be analyzed, mentioned by Spokesman Zupiria. This matter is taking too long. And that's why I want to ask you again today, Mrs. Garastical: Will you confirm that, in accordance with the parliamentary order, the transfer of the minimum income to live will be given as a whole?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u52	Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Ma'am, you're asking me if you're sure I'm sure you'll be able to guarantee an IMV transfer if it's to be the whole thing. I think the answer is known. I don't think I'm going to have any false transfers, just as we haven't agreed to the transfers we've been moving before. I've always said the same thing: the transfer is founded on the relationship and negotiation between the two governments. And we have insisted on our position in the Spanish Government. That's why we've never made any deal before. Beyond public observations, we have acted with discretion and discretion in favor of the issue of the negotiation... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... Beyond the public views, we have acted with discretion and discretion in favor of the issue of the negotiation. Let's not forget that we're on both sides of this point, but we can only guarantee our attitude, the one that brought us here, the one that's only accepting the integration of the hand. And what are we talking about when we talk about the integral? Well, to be honest, the whole IMV management is about changing into the hands of you, passing. Time out. After the transfer, the Department of Job and Empeding refers to the development and regulating all the circumstances of IMV and RGI. Let me, however, shorten a course, our career. On the 25th of May, when we received the first proposal, we said, in words, that the proposition was uncertain, and injurious to the interests of the Basques in conformity with legal law. He did not observe the characteristics of a transformation. It was only a suggestion of eloquence, limited in time, to accept preparations, and to pay for the benefices the state had reserved for itself. In the past few weeks, two more proposals have been made for us, or they are coming to us. After receiving the first, we marked the red line clearly as to the limit of the transfer, because the jurisdictions of Euchidi have no deadline. And now, in the proposition we have in our hands, it is nearer to the inevitable characters of the traspasa. But he still needs a few screens. That's what we're doing. We have therefore come to this point with a demanding attitude towards achieving a transfer with all that implies, among other things, that its validity is not in question and that its funding is based on our quota system. It is true, I share with you, that it is getting too long; but for our part we continue and will continue to show ourselves demanding as before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u54	Mrs. Garast, I thank you for the explanations I have given you today. I don't know about discretion and that kind of talk, because I think there's been a lot of talk about it and I don't know what's been discussed in the right terms. But at any rate, I am grateful to you for the degree of exigence expressed here, and for this determination, is it not? But in any case, I maintain my doubts and my fears. And because this people had long since burnt down, because it had long since been in possession of the right of a minimum income, with all its limitations and dysfunctions. It's more than 30 years since we've had our own system, and we've decided to protect and protect our associates so far that we can guarantee that minimum protection to live. And the Spanish Common-wealth has directed an anomaly of years only ingreso mronimo vital, which is why its effect is very limited here, and because we have it before us, don't we? Orduan, hemen auzia da nola, how to convert a limited impact performance into an opportunity window to protect more and better. And that's the key. And that's why it's so important how you transfer this competition, that little letter. And I think that we have a clear idea of what it must not be, and I agree with all that you have set up for it. We don't need the management of preparation, we don't want it; and what we need is not another instrument, as Mr. Icha said the other day, we have an instrument, what we need is a sort of ingreso mínimo vitala in ours. And we don't need pure management or integration. And I think it was plain in this, and that we agree that we don't want to be a scursor in Madrid. We don't want Madrid to define and decide our protection policies, and we'll manage them here. That's what it would be to make the income a vacant thing, to become a mere commitment, and besides, a loss, a loss of self-portraits. And he'd have a very bad precedent, because as we've said so many times, he's a transferentia es la antéías serété de manes transferencias que tien que el ámbroto de la Seguidad Social, y que que que que semia semera a la mestio seri serocante. Of course, it transfers kudeaketa hutsean geratzea autogovernuan atzera egitea litzateke. It would be serious if the transfer were finally limited to management, because it would be a loss of competences, a step backwards, in this case agreed, between the Government, and would be a sort of self-erosion...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Time's up. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u56	Madame Kortja's, I think it's very clear that this department's attitude is transferred to this. Besides, the legislature confirmed it in September itself by proclaiming the whole transfer of IMV from our section. We keep going that way. Zuretzat bezala, Kortajarena andrea, Jaurlaritzarentzat era shentasun bat da eskualdatzea gauzatzea, étaz batez era undo gauzatzea. In this regard, we have agreed to convene the technical presentation next Wednesday to clear up the various outstanding aspects of this transfer, and we hope to be able to reach an early agreement. Therefore, our position is more than clear; not only in this matter, but in the other pending matters of...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The score point in the subject list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, Populara, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of the United States, made for economics and the chief department of the Ogas, in order to employ the reception and management of the European funds in the Eudacination of Europe." Mr. Gordillo, your word is... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, who remain here on a Friday afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Azpiazu. The arrival of European funds and their proper implementation is essential for all of us, for society, for the economy. (...) it is something we can all agree on, and so it is made known in the various interpellations that have referred to this point. The great concern which I had from the beginning and which has been made known both in the monographic plenary and in successive control initiatives, questions, etc., was that of whether we had the capacity, whether the Autonomous Community, whether the administrative structure of the Autonomous Community had the capacity to do so; and not only to do so, but to do it well. Because there is a difference between doing things and doing things right: you can make a budget, you can make a budget well, you can execute a budget and you can execute a budget well. When we started talking about this issue at the beginning of the parliamentary term, I told you that I observed, humbly, that there was an important need to make certain adjustments, certain reforms in the administrative structure, in the way of managing the funds themselves, in the structure itself even of what is the civil service of the Autonomous Community, that it is true that it is an area that does not have exactly to do with your department, but that, man, obviously, in this you also have to exercise some coordination or, at least, you do have to have a voice as well. You told me that in no way, that no problem, for nothing, that the Autonomous Community was, in this sense, the most advanced, the most modern, that everything was phenomenal and without more. In yesterday's sitting, on a non-legislative proposal on the full implementation of the budgets - a fairly pending subject on the part of this Government, by the way - one of the issues that emerged was the order we learned that was adopted at the Governing Council last Tuesday, the order on the management, implementation, etc., of European funds in the context of the Autonomous Community. An order whose content we do not know yet - I hope today can advance something - because I believe, if I am not mistaken, that it has not yet been published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. In this order, it has indeed been necessary to make at the last minute - we will see how a number of adjustments have been made - as I say, at the last minute, when we have all the deadlines above, to introduce milestone financing criteria. I mean, if you don't fund what you say you're going to do and, above all, don't run conveniently you have to return. Because, unlike budget management in our autonomous community, when it comes to European money, if you don't execute it you don't have to give it back, you can't get it out and go putting it in the budget year after year. Secondly, there is also talk, in the press release published by his team on the Governing Council, of introducing a series of anti-fraud measures, a series of measures to also alleviate the conflicts of interest that may arise, problems that may be of European double funding - something that is of great concern to the Commission's authorities - and so on. Issues that, by the way, have also been of interest to her partner, who unfortunately had to leave us, her partner in the Governing Council, so that they could be introduced even in the bills that brought us, but also with very little success. Another issue that was included in that order also had to do with the issue of human resources. Obviously, as I said to you from the beginning, and I believe that with this you agree with me, although, man, you will not want to say this either so as not to be wrong with your fellow members of the Governing Council, but it is necessary to make the structure more flexible, especially in the case of the Euskadi Autonomous Community. It's just that it's very necessary, because then if not, we don't have the capacity to manage these moneys. So, of course, then, in the end, we have a series of high offices, we have advisors, we have such and then who ends up managing these moneys? Well, in the end, you have to end up subcontracting consultants, etc., which may seem good to me, but then someone is left: either the top posts are left, the consultants are left or the consultants are left. Some of those three must be left, because otherwise, the truth is, it's a rather inefficient use of resources. And in that order and in that press release it is said that, well, it is going to reintroduce interim staff to have to manage this. Of course, there's no other remedy. We could have changed it in the legislation we have on the table, but none of the groups in the Government seem likely to do so either. On this issue, Mr Azpiazu, I see three problems. The first of them, the model of central government, which has established at the time of the management of European money a... No more centralization, because, man, here are several models. You can choose an expert commission of such prestige that no one dares say anything, which is almost what they have been able to do in Italy: an independent commission. You can choose or you can appoint a parliamentary committee, which is permanently controlling the government, which is a question that has been made in other countries with a parliamentary tradition perhaps a little more rooted, including Nordic countries, such as Denmark, etc. But, of course, the model that has been adopted here by the central government has been a model of absolute centralisation in the hands of the central government in Madrid, in which it would even be difficult to argue that it has complied or that it has complied with the European Union's regulations to take account of autonomous communities and local entities in managing and, above all, planning, because it is very important, as you know, planning. I believe that in this, essentially, you agree with me. What happens next, when we complain, because I don't know, they start calling you that if you're anti-Spanish, I don't know what and what. You can imagine, Mr. Azpiazu, calling you anti-Spanish, can't you? But, well, that's what happens to those of us who complain a little bit about this system, especially a system that could be greatly improved. This is a problem, which I understand, I stress again, that I believe you can agree with me: the centralized model of Mr Sánchez or his Government. That, listen, it is the one that they have wanted to establish and that then throws out some data that are very curious, and that is that the autonomous communities that receive the most, casually - this is a coincidence, Mr Azpiazu, let us not be ill-thought out - are the ones that are ruled by the same party as the central government, by the Socialist Party. But, well, this will be random, surely. The second problem I also see, as I said before, is the lack of capacity in our public sector. And the truth is that the order that has been adopted, and whose text I insist that I am wishing to know, does not cease to confirm. In the end, we are adopting or coming to this Parliament very old laws, bills of many years ago, which are not at all adapted to the new needs. And, of course, you don't... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ...adopting or coming to this Parliament very old laws, bills of many years ago, which are not at all adapted to the new needs. And, of course, you have no choice but to put patches where you can, then, because you have had to put another patch. And then there has to be an order that excludes the case of European funds and management, all that is around European funds, except for the general regimes, when what is to be done is precisely that it is to Europeanize the principles of management of both the public service and the European public sector itself. I hope to count on your complicity, the Governing Council, to see if you can persuade your colleagues to accept and persuade, in turn, the groups that support them here in Parliament. And the third point - here I may not agree so much with myself being in the government; if I were in the opposition, I think I would also agree - is the problem of deparlamentarization that is suffering this whole process: the role of Parliament is also being relatively small here. You'll tell me, "Man, Mr. Gordillo, here I am in all the control sessions." Man, sure, it was just missing, wasn't it? "No, it's just that I come here, I ask to appear to inform." Man, of course, there is a difference between doing things and then coming here and counting it; and another thing is, of course, having to submit here, reaching agreements and, above all, I do not say that Parliament has to govern much less, but, man, I do think that Parliament could have something to say when it comes to appointing committees of experts above all, and a certain amount of control when it comes to designating the principles, which then have to report or which then have to report what the management of European funds itself is. And I think there has been a major setback there. It's not just a question of mine, but it's not the first time it's been said, is it? As you said, Mr Azpiazu, we disagree in many things. By the way, I am not the only one who disagrees with you, because this morning Mr Lehendakari speaking of the growth of the economy and such has not spoken of the thermometer of the Basque economy of your department, he has spoken of BBVA Research - which, by the way, establishes an economic growth of 5.3 when you said a 6.7; that is, a 1.5% ; but nothing happens, Mr Azpiazu, today we are not talking about this issue. But let him know that the lehendakari himself does not quote you, but he quotes BBVA Research itself. I was saying that we disagree on many things, Mr Azpiazu, but I believe that in essence you agree with me, at least on the first two questions: on the management model established by Mr Sánchez's Government, and, secondly, on the question of the need to modernise this, because if we are not putting patches on. And then, the other day, I met - and here the purpose of the inquiry - with news that referred to the fact that it seems that the Elkargi Mutual Guarantee Society is going to become manager of European funds derived from the Next Generation program and that it is going to distribute them to industry. And on the other hand, we have strategic projects that you have already carried out seem to be beginning to be published in the newsletters that the Ministry is advancing, in this case the first vice-presidency, although we still don't know much about how the management is going to go. So, since these are the issues and concerns, Mr Azpiazu, I ask you today: What are the purposes of the Government and, specifically, its department in relation to the mechanisms through which the reception and management of European funds will be channelled in Euskadi. Especially if you tell me something about the order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u60	Mrs. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning, everyone. Mr Gordillo, I think I will satisfy your concerns today. We share the importance of the funds. And I think I'm going to show you that the ability, if we don't have it, we're going to have it, because we're working to have management capabilities. And, indeed, on other issues we can disagree, but I believe that, basically, I will give you satisfaction on those issues, which are the central issues that you have raised today. The fundamental purpose of this Government - and compatible with what you propose - in relation to European funds from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism is, as you know, to absorb the maximum of funds according to our capacities as a country. Talk about capacity. You'll see we have them. And if not that we are taking the necessary steps to have the capacities to be able to manage properly. From a regulatory-legal perspective, the mechanisms for the management of European funds are governed by Royal Decree 36/2020 of 30 December, approving urgent measures for the modernization of the public administration and for the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. The Royal Decree lays down the provisions to facilitate the programming, budgeting, management and execution of actions that can be financed with the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. In the area of Euskadi, the General Budgets Act of 22 includes a chapter on the management of the funds linked to the recovery plan Next Generation EU, with the provisions that are necessary for the incorporation of these funds into our budgets and their budget implementation, as well as the administrative processing of the actions and projects that finance these funds. From an operational point of view and in order to facilitate the monitoring and monitoring of MRR-funded projects, last June the Department of Economy and Finance launched a new multi-departmental budget programme for the management of the funds linked to the Plan. This same week, as you have said, the order establishing the administrative processes for the budgetary and accounting implementation, management and monitoring of the actions and projects affecting the RRM in the framework of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which represents a major administrative challenge, has been approved in the Governing Council. The governance model designed by the State will mean that the funds allocated to the actions carried out with MRR resources should be given special consideration in terms of monitoring, allocation of the expenditure financed and the regime of non-implementation and return of the funds. This alters the regular regime for the use of budget implementation and control mechanisms, and requires new ways to focus on the responsibilities of administrative bodies called upon to manage them. As long as the RRM has been set up as an instrument in which payments by the Commission will be made for the achievement of milestones and targets, it is necessary that, in addition to accounting information on the costs incurred in implementing the Plan, timely information is available on the progress of the indicators, which determines the fulfilment of the relevant milestones and targets. The strengthening of mechanisms for the prevention, detection and correction of fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest, so that the Directorate for Cohesion Policy and European Funds... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... detection and correction of fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest, so that the Directorate for Cohesion Policy and European Funds will draw up a plan of measures to cover anti-fraud, conflict of interest, double financing, state aid and non-significant damage to the environment. Another important aspect is the ability to have sufficient human resources, and you have pointed out, for the management and implementation of funds, depending on this issue, as you have also said, of the Department of Public Governance and Self-Government. From the practical point of view, I think it is important to distinguish between the amounts that are being transferred to the Autonomous Communities for the development of public policies through Sectoral Conferences and the amounts that will be managed directly from the Central Administration. Thus, the distribution of MRR funds to the Autonomous Communities follows two main channels. First, through direct allocation of funds to the Basque Government on the basis of the agreements of the Sectoral Conferences. The allocation of funds establishes, by agreement between the parties, the conditions and destination of the funds, as well as the milestones and objectives to be met. And, as you know, on this issue we have been very critical and we have made similar criticisms to those you raised this morning. Secondly, the competitive bidding process of the ministries or entities of the General Administration of the State to which local administrations, companies, scientific and technological agents, civil society organizations and individuals may access according to the type of bidding. In this channel, Basque agents will compete for the funds with those of the rest of the State and will have to meet in each case the requirements established by the bidding institutions. Although all this is well known to you, it serves as a reminder of the defined operation for the management of funds, which is very important. You also refer to the Elkargi issue, which Elkargi will become a fund manager, and I think this can lead to misunderstandings. I'm going to try to contextualize the subject. Please note, within Component 13 of Pyme Drive, the Industrial Entrepreneurship Support Program, which seeks to support a minimum of 1,500 financial operations, promoting the entrepreneurship and growth of smaller industrial enterprises, and improving their access to finance. That's it, sir. Gordillo, that, through CERSA, loans backed by Elkargi may have a subsidy of interest rate and commissions that companies have to pay. You also ask me about the status of the flagship projects sent to Vice-President Nadia Calviño. Last Friday, as you know, the Lehendakari and I were able to share this issue with her, and, as Lehendakari himself announced, we will be the Basque institutions that we are already starting with these projects, waiting to absorb as much European resources as possible, since the three initiatives have a perfect link with both the Spanish plan and the requirements of Brussels. Thus, we will continue to show and position our capacities in the areas of sustainable mobility, data economy and advanced health therapies, with a view to obtaining MRR resources as soon as possible. In response to the request made by the first Vice-President of the Government of Spain, Euskadi presented, within the framework of the interinstitutional collaboration of the Basque Government and the deputies that gave rise to the Euskadi Next programme, three strategic/emblematic projects of the country, aligned with the strategy of intelligent specialization RIS3 and based on promoting the existing strengths in Basquedi in the fields of energy, intelligent industry and personalized health. From the outset, the four institutions have reiterated their decision to promote these flagship projects regardless of whether they receive funds from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Obviously, the support of these additional funds would enable the necessary investments to be accelerated in order to undertake these projects and to implement them in a smaller time frame. In fact, two of the three projects have perfect coupling in the already approved PERTES of state-of-the-art Health and Electrical and Connected Vehicle, and the third in the lines of action set by the State Secretariat of Artificial Intelligence and Digitization. On the other hand, Euskadi Next is our scenario of action, our path to the triple energy-ecological, digital and demographic-social transition that we drive with our government program. Of course, the quality of our proposals makes many of the projects covered by the programme first-level candidates for the calls to be launched from the State, and they transfer it from the central government. In any case, and in compliance with your obligations, on the 23rd we will be able to deepen on these aspects of the appearance at my own request to this House, as stipulated in the Budgets Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u62	Thank you, President. And thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu, for your explanations. As I was saying yesterday to another group's spokesperson, it is good that I am right – and I thank him – and that we see reality in a similar way, but I believe that then what comes next is to act accordingly as well. I mean, you tell me, "The ability has to recognize it; and if we don't have it, we're doing what's necessary and taking the steps." Man, one thing is, Mr Azpiazu - and you will share this with me - one thing is to manage 430, 440 million, for which, in fact, you can pass an order that exceptions the usual requirements of what is economic-budgetary management for European issues. But, of course, if what we are opting for is 400 million only when this issue of European funds - you and I know it - is not going to be two years or three years, this is going to be a lot longer. And then another big problem here: is that our public administration too, which is the manager of public money, cannot be made on the basis of retals and, above all, on the basis of legislative patches that we make, normative, regulatory retals. What needs to be done is a thorough reform and a corresponding reform. They have already told us from the European Commission - and you know it too - he says: "No, it is that Spain cannot do two things at once". [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...must be done is a profound reform and a reform accordingly. They have already told us from the European Commission - and you know it too - he says: "No, it is that Spain cannot do two things at once". A country like Greece, which has always been very critical of its management of European funds, is now at the forefront of both the management of funds derived from this programme, the MRR, and the ERDF funds. And I think that is a matter that needs to be addressed as soon as possible. I am pleased that in the order they adopted in the Governing Council - which, I insist, I am impatient to know its content - they include these European principles relating to the need for implementation, the need to make certain structural reforms, to modernise the public service. But, man, what is ideal is that this extends to what is the general of budget management itself. And so, also one of the concerns I raised was this, it was a bit of the deparlamentarization that this is suffering. Man, one thing is to set up some clauses for (...?) the budget for, with proper parliamentary controls, therefore, indeed, making adjustments, but passing through Parliament; and another thing is, man, what has been done in the Budgets Act, which is to give the government a lot of ease so that, in fact, as European funds arrive, it will be removing here, putting, removing, subtracting, adding here, I don't know what, without doing... or without going through parliamentary control. And that's what concerns me about everything and what I come here to defend. That I think it is right that adjustments should be made, but I believe that these adjustments must be made with the consent, with the approval of Parliament itself. Which, by the way, would cost you nothing, Mr Azpiazu, because you have a comfortable majority. Although you agree in many criticisms with me to one of the groups that support you, you have quite a lot in common with me in that sense, but, come on, you have a comfortable majority, and it's one thing I could do. That is why I would like you to reconsider it so that in the future, in these matters, Parliament will also pass on all the adjustments that will be made as a result of the arrival of new European funds. And, above all, I see this, Mr Azpiazu, as not you, but I see this, this first hour, let us say, of European projects as a beginning, as I do not see it as the end in itself. And as I see it as a start, I would like to stress once again that the place to pass through regulatory rules there in the Governing Councils, to see when they are published, etc., that there really is a commitment on the part of this government, with the necessary structural reforms, and that Parliament is really brought to do this reform from the Parliament itself and to do it well, and not go, as we always do, behind schedule, practically failing to meet the deadlines at the last minute and thus always coming by the hair. That is why, Mr Azpiazu, I thank you, as you said, for the explanations, but I would ask you, please, to persuade your colleagues on the Governing Council to really have a little more planning and, above all, a little more long-term view on this very important issue, which is not a matter of a government or a party but a matter of the welfare of society in the long term. And the management of this first inflow of funds, which, to see when they arrive, by the way, has also not told us when it will arrive, is always a thing that is waiting there, waiting, waiting, that not only this, but that is the capacity of the public administration itself for once... , and society, so that once these funds are gone we have that traction necessary to continue to produce wealth and well-being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u64	Mr Gordillo, do not minimize the amount of the funds, do not talk about 400 million; it is a long-term issue, as you say, and a great deal of money will come. Not only will those who come through sectoral policies manage this government, but they will be present in the pool of resources coming from Europe for the projects we have presented, including in the Euskadi Next programme. You say to me, "No, it's just that we in Parliament don't take it into account because they do... they've approved the budget..." Look, the budget has approved it in this House; I think we've all had... You have also had the opportunity to speak out on this issue. And, of course, what is approved, the provision, is an instrumental provision so that, in fact, resources can be managed. I believe that the mechanisms to put in place one of these are also important. Good. (...?) I feel a little complex that you and I will be able to agree on in everything, and even in the tone that you are addressing the issue of European funds here and in the state, because the attitude of your party does not have as a priority Euskadi nor does it intend to benefit them to a greater extent. I believe that there is an important political use in which you are playing. I believe they are in another orbit, much more shunned towards confrontation, if I may, political and partisan. And you'll understand that as an economics and finance advisor I don't want to go into this issue, but I do want to point it out. This very week his party led the confrontation to Brussels. And advance him, so that we don't waste more time, that no one... that the Basque Government is not going to get carried away by this drift. If I'm going to advance some of the data we have so far. That Euskadi has allocated to date 759 million euros through sectoral conferences. The fact that these days we are seeing in the press, which is around 490, is what has already come to our treasury, what is already entered in our accounts. From a quantitative point of view, the distribution carried out to date is governed by cohesion criteria. In this sense, on the part of the... part of the distributions penalize those autonomous communities that we have been making significant efforts with our own resources within the framework of the development of public policies of our competence. In the rest of the distributions the criterion is about the weight of the population of each autonomous community. From a qualitative point of view, the distribution of resources has a finalist character, that is, the State has determined, basically unilaterally - you said it before and I want to confirm it again - the fate of resources, even for public policies that fall within the competence of the autonomous communities. This, of course, generates many inefficiencies, which in some cases we have managed to prolong, but which does not respond to what Europe wanted in its regulation. We are working intensively to correct, however, these deviations and, in fact, Lehendakari herself raised with the first Vice-President that a good opportunity to do so is the addition of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan that they have to submit to Brussels to request the additional 70 billion loans. This provides an opportunity to involve the Autonomous Communities and local authorities in the design of such an expansion of the plan. We demand that the autonomous communities design the interventions, in the form of reforms and investments, in the field of public policies within our competence. This line of credit is crucial in a context of gradual return from the Stability and Growth Pact and Rules of... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... public policies of our competence. This line of credit is crucial in a context of gradual return from the Stability and Growth Pact and fiscal consolidation rules, which will again place us on the path of spending and investment containment. Access to resources to finance investments in areas of our competence cannot under any circumstances imply a lower decision-making capacity or a reduction in self-government. The Basque Government will continue to accompany our entire business and social fabric on this path, supporting what is necessary. I also invite you, Mr Gordillo, and the other representatives here, to work together to achieve the best results for Euskadi. On this path we can meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 12th point has been abandoned for another time. Therefore the thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Joseph Manuel Gilegas, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the Educational Department, to determine the basis of the contract on the future euscal educational system by poncias on the trip to Catalonia." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u66	Good morning, counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From 16 to 19 January representatives of some nationalist parliamentary groups made a trip to Catalonia within the work of the paper to define the basis of the agreement on the future Basque education system. To this excursion, in principle from a parliamentary delegation, two senior officials of the Department of Education joined, surprisingly,: the Vice-Advisor of Education, Begoña Pedrosa, and the Vice-Advisor of Administration and Services, Xabier Aizpurua. We don't really understand what they were doing there. It is logical for the Government to follow with interest what is happening in the paper, but it is the only direct participation that its department has had in it, since it is a purely parliamentary activity. To this paper we have not gone for obvious reasons that, if you want, I can delve into them. But neither has his partner in government, the Socialist Party, gone. And yet, two vice-counsel members are appointed. What was it to fill the gap and not see so clearly the striking absences? But, finally, as you have gone, I am obliged to ask you, Mr. Counsellor, what conclusions have been drawn on the journey of Catalonia by the Department of Education to incorporate into the future education bill?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u68	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Gil. The journey you quote is framed in the contrast work that the Department of Education has been doing since the beginning of the legislature with the aim of identifying educational projects and good practices that can be analyzed to enrich our own model. In this particular case, I highlight two specific objectives: on the one hand, to have the opportunity to know on-site inclusive educational projects and to contrast them with our own model, and, on the other hand, to know the management developed by another reference Public Administration and, above all, to know the evaluation of the impact of its policies. As you are well aware, this department made a formal request to the chair of Parliament's Education Committee to take part in this trip, and it was accepted. In fact, this is precisely one of the points that has been highlighted and highlighted most of the different meetings held; this was the example of the visit of a joint delegation composed of representatives of both institutions. Moreover, the various actors have shown interest in working towards an educational pact in Euskadi that gives stability to the Basque education system. I bet on this path of understanding and collaboration, always respecting the competences of each institution. It is positive to demonstrate the ability to generate these spaces and frameworks for inter-institutional meetings that strengthen our image as a country and cohesive us as a society, especially in a subject as sensitive and relevant as the education that deserves all the effort of rapprochement and consensus that we can forge.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, you are talking about creating consensus spaces, and we fully agree with the need for this, but you will see, that we have already had more than 100 appearances in the paper, many of them telematics with people from many different places, including Catalonia. The experts and directors of travel centers in Barcelona could well have requested... could well have been requested by the same groups as comparators and we would have saved good money to the suffering Basque taxpayers, many of whom cannot travel to Barcelona or pay it out of their pockets although they would also like to. Secondly, we have not gone because, among other things, we believe that Catalonia is not currently the mirror in which to look to reform Basque education. You're talking about how they were going to contrast good practices. Why has a trip not been organized, then, to other countries or to other autonomous communities that produce much better academic results than Euskadi? Look, I don't really see the need for this trip paid for by all the Basques. But since you've gone, I'm going to tell you how I think you could have made better use of your government's journey. They could have been interested, for example, in the family of the Canet child, and sympathize with them for the campaign of nationalist harassment they have suffered. I was expecting in December, to see if you were saying anything about it in support of the child, but it was not so; your silence screamed very loudly. But now, in February, I realized that the message has already been given with the silence about Canet, and with the presence on the committee's journey with those responsible that many Catalan families are accused and live without freedom on their land. Although he does not want to recognize it, we all know what PNV, Bildu, Podemos and his government have gone to: they have gone to see first hand the model of linguistic immersion because it is what they want to import here. You, between Canet's child and those who harass Canet's child, surprisingly, are in the second group. But if that is what you want for the future of Euskadi, I want you to know that you will have this group and my party, Citizens, acting in all areas that are necessary to defend an education without imposition of any kind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u72	Mr. Gil. As I have indicated, we will continue to work for dialogue, contrast and agreement, with an open and constructive disposition. Equity and excellence are part of the strategic lines of this department, and in this area many of the policies we want to implement in the coming years are framed. And, to that end, we have approached the reality of Catalonia. As a result of this visit, we have learned very closely that under the Catalonian Education Act, for example, the cooperation of the municipalities in the field of education is encouraged, for example, in managing the response to segregation. We have known the experience of the pact against segregation, in which the administrations undertake to ensure that schools... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...when managing the response to segregation. We have learned the experience of the anti-segregation pact, in which the administrations are committed to ensuring that schools implement new measures to balance the schooling of vulnerable pupils. After all, the school must be a reflection of diversity, and we must all, Mr Gil, work with the same objective of equity and social cohesion. On the other hand, we have been able to learn about educational innovation projects in which school leadership plays a key role. They are projects that bet on diversity and quality. At these meetings we have also had the opportunity to make our own initiatives known. In short, to contrast, to exchange views and, most importantly, Mr Gil, to learn. For our part, we will continue to work with all actors to achieve the goal we share: to equip our country with the best education system capable of responding to the demands of our society. I'm sorry you couldn't participate in this visit. I assure you that all participants have valued the opportunity you have represented to enrich our vision. This is the way we will work: to share more spaces of understanding and inter-institutional collaboration. The door to education is always open to add and only to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. fourteen points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with Podemos-Nozzer, member of the Anizar team, made to the head of the Board of Education, about the excessive offer of education now." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, chief physician. Dakizun bezala, urtarrilaren amarien bukatu zen eskoletan matrikulazio egiteko epea. For the time being, the exact number of applications is not publicly known, but given that the demographic decline is significant, ziur esan dezakegu matrikulazioa ere nabarmen egin duela behera. "Ante siltución, si la scarlar ha descedo, the most just thing is to fit the offer." For if they do not do so, they will only increase the excessive bids. Hezkuntza pontziako adituek argi esan digute segregation of the gure hezkuntza-systemen nagusia root. And we know very well that the most significant factor that causes segregation is excessive school supply. And we're not talking about any oversupply, which doesn't exist on the public network, we're talking about an oversupply that predominates on the private network and makes the public network a secondary network. Bada railway station skola planifikazioaren eta eskaintzaren inguruko erabaki irmoak hartzeko. Horrela egin ezean, escola segregation age irakaskuntzaren pribatization itzulezin bihurtuko dira. Horrenbeste, we want to know what criteria of school planning have followed this year from the Department of Education to avoid situations of oversupply and to face an increasingly serious and structural segregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u76	Mrs. Gonzalez, Mrs. Gonzalez. In December, as I told you in answer to an interpelation of your party, and as yesterday was discussed in this legislature, it is regulated by the regime of the education treaty to support private schools with public funds. That's nothing new. And so we reported to you in writing some of your team's proposed undertakings, that the present time of the treaty, which is established at the command of April 27th of April 2016, regulates the terms of signing and renewing the education of education, ends at the year 2021-22. With a view to complying with the existing regulatory framework, the Department of Education is working on the new legislation for the renewal of educational concerts to private institutions for the next concertation period, as the effects of this renewal will be achieved from course 22-23. Therefore, in constant contact with the actors involved with complete transparency, we are in the process of reviewing and updating the educational concerts of the next six years, a regulatory period marked in the basic regulations. In this process we are making proposals and examining scenarios, considering the demographic development, the descent of birth, and the social reality of the townships. We are, therefore, in this point of view adjusting the rules of planning and of agreement; the supplementation of the two networks, and the adjustment and application of the plates.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u78	Arazoa larria da, age bear, and? Ez gazza udalerri Bakan batzuen inguruan hyzketan ari, huh? On the contrary, we are talking about a structural problem affecting all Basque education and the majority of municipalities where public and private concerted schools live. "La educación pública es derecho de todos los niños, nñas y jóvenes." We're suing Y believers deben vantizar y ofrecer Squares públicas suficibilis para satisfacer. Now, far from this reality, the public euscal schools are more and more remote. I think it's subsidy, secondary. Moreover, in certain places, the Usurbil case, there is no public school, but the only college under the treaty. Orio is another example, a public school and a concerted centre. This year, 43 pupils have been enrolled in both centres. The concerted can assume 75 places, that is, many more than necessary for all local demand. Zein irizpideren aberra eman of the ontzat Hezkuntza Sailak gehiegizko eskola eskaintza hori? Orioko eskola publikoa, berriz, galzorian dago, zortzi matrikula eskabide baino ez ditu izan. How is it possible that in a town of 6,000 inhabitants leave, they allow the public school to agonize? Of course, from the Department they are doing well and encouraging that excessive supply, and this is weakening the public network. The Centre and Planning Directorate offered a viable and fair exit, and each of these centres offered a classroom, but it was ignored. Desorekak orekatzeko aukera about izan zitekeen, bathed Hezkuntza Sailak entzungor egin zion. Zergatik ez du esku hartu? The order for the planning which we now have is that the school offer will be at the beginning of each year for every district, province, or town... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... according to the decree of planning, the offer of schools at the beginning of each year will be referred to the necessary schools for the district, to the township, or to the townships of each township. I mean, is there any such thing as them? Vemos croo que no. "Hemos oído y redetide muchas veces que la red concerda, la primda y la plublicia se reparten al 50% laboraridad." "Pero eso, cudo bajas a lo local, ves que siempree la concerda." It is very obvious that the Board of Education has hitherto enabled a more refined society to choose the school of their children, instead of a more exclusive society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u80	González andrea, as I indicated in my previous speech, we are working with the criterion of complementarity. As public servants, we must ensure the provision of a quality educational service by all publicly funded centres. We will continue to adapt our educational offer responsibly to the demands of our educational community and society. The Euscataian education system shows that two networks, public and compact, live together; it would not be understood without each other, and they both furnish public services of quality. We must make use of the forces and accessories of this union. We may agree that we must establish new rules of game in order to introduce new commitments to society. The euscal education system has no doubt to do the formulas that will help prevent the concentration of the vulnerable students from doing so, and we will do it. To do this, we must join the respect of the freedom of choosing families with the most beautiful plans for the educational art which is to enhance the balance of students with specific wants. But neither can we forget that the right of education and education are exercised in the exercise of the offer of education by the elect schools. Family has a right to use it in a conscious and conscientious manner, and will remain so. It is not a question of confronting the two networks, of facing society and citizens, but of adding the powers of the two networks. And that's why we have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that the legislatures of the Otero Galirdos, made to the head of the Economics, patience, and Environmental department, are to be asked about the waste of public resources in the licenses of the future imprisonment." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u82	Thank you, ma'am. Hello, good afternoon to all. Good afternoon, Mrs. Tapia. Even if it's a lie, we're talking again about the gas wells of the Araba, because it doesn't close the subject, because it doesn't want to close the subject anymore, I don't know. History, I believe it's already known, the town council asked permission from the well, the council refused to allow it because the municipal permission was not compatible. Hydrocarbulus de Euskati, in the courts of justice, and a month ago the court has given some reason to Hidrocarbulus de Euskadira. And he says he didn't want to argue that the City Hall has come back to do this denial and to be examined at the first moment. But he also allows the Gastine City to appeal, and the Gasteian Council says that he'll be able to appeal. Klaro, we all know that even if exploration is possible, exploitation is not possible, because the climate law of the state is no longer allowed. And in the meantime, what's going on is the public resources, the town halls, the courts, the public resources, the use, the waste, and even while we keep the permits, we're using a lot of money there. And in our opinion, he's already become rather sad an experience, and it seems to us that this chapter has really come to close. And that's the question today. What do you think of keeping the public money and the public resources in the hydrocarbuary licenses that don't go anywhere?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all of you, members and chief officers. Mr. Oster, first of all, I must tell you that we don't spend or use any economic public resources at this moment, these resources are not in the budget, and we're not using them. For, as you have said, the law is permitted and there is no opportunity for exploitation. Another thing is, that this permission must be maintained morally in order to preserve the money which has been used. And that's all we do. This is what our jurists say, and, as you know, we are not alone in the right, there is another consideration, which is the majority. And therefore it is only in this sense that we keep it. But there's no money in it to exploit or do anything else, as you know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u86	He knew it well, but he knew something else. When I say resources, I'm not just talking about money. The means of legal service, yours, the techniques of the town hall, the courts, are also resources which ought to have something else, are not only money. But it's money, too, because you've got to think of it, because you know very well that the great − Enara or Enda are allowed to explore projects, that bigente costs a fortune, and they're going to pay Spain for it. Not just that, 1996, that land of wells around 97, or around it, we pay a rent, which we pay even for years. And this is not only this, but according to the answers from − Hidrocarbulus de Euskali, his existence is an immense waste of the public money; and the whole ball of his existence, according to your data, is almost 80 million euros. So we're losing money in general with SESA, we're losing money... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... according to the data, it's almost 80 million euros. So we're losing money in general with the SSA, we're losing money directly to Ena, which is exactly with that well of Armentia-2. Now you say: "We have other things, we have other partners." Yes, we have other partners. Ebro-B, Ebro-C, Ebro-D, Ebro-E, and Angosto, there were other partners. SHESA was an operator, and the licenses were asked to act. What's going on there? There's no patrimonic problem, or is there just the patrimonial problem that doesn't belong to the Armentia-2 well? Does commitment come only to the Ministry if Armentia-2 doesn't make a well? It's the same case. We don't know because you don't explain what the problem is here. You mentioned the contracts. I've seen the contracts. They're classified, I can't talk about it. But SHESA can retire as soon as she pleases. And you're responsible for not retiring. So I'm asking you to leave me alone for once.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u88	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, it sounds like a lie. We have said long ago that when the law was admitted, in May, in May, in May, in May, the previous year, we left the gas in the Eukadalia. So it seems to me at this moment that our discussion must be really about debonization. Distraction not only in society, but in transportation, and in our industry. In order to examine also what agriculture ought to do, how we ought to cultivate all these parts, where our dear little mime must go. Above all, we're seeing what's going on around the war in Russia. We've seen what happened in Algeria. So, really, we have to work for decorbonization and myrgical mirgetics and retractable energy. We all know we can't get them out of here. We know that all creation will not be made in the Eucharin because we can't, but we have to do ours, and I think we can agree with that. And now we've got a hell of a chance. We have a law here at the beginning of the tramitation, the law of the neurotic transition and climate change, Euskadin. And our department, all of them, of different kinds, and I am prepared to study, improve, and agree. I think that's the discussion we're going to have right now. That's what we have to go for. I know that we come from different political cultures, and that perhaps yours is a struggle for struggle and death. In our case, conversation, agreement, and, for that purpose, perfect decency. We have a choice of law, so let's work for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Unza and the EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, in order that the Medical Department may not be rejected by Emergence." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u90	Thank you, chief physician. Tapia, Mr. Zupiria. Emergentia, the Integrated Sanitarian organization, in the public health system, is a very important function which regards the people and even observes them in the eyes of the people: it is vital. This is, in Emergence, when the telephone is received from the coordination, the ambulance is sent from whatever the phone takes, and the ambulance will assume a very important time for a person to receive his patient and get him to the hospital. We may, therefore, say that it is a first-class service, at least for the people, but we doubt whether it is the service of priority to the health department. And why do we say this? Well, we say this for the things we see in the diary, and because we see these things that make this health condition uncertain. What do we see? Well, we've been seeing for years that companies that are hired to work for Emergence are in the premium, understructions, ambulances, this is a year's account. It's not normal to have a death or life service subcontradicted in the Medical Department. And, further, there is no control of the conditions and pludes of obligation to contract; that is, there is no control and continuity. And it's hard to understand and worry that the medical department shouldn't act properly, or that they don't hire all the documents that have to be hired, that the workers are unpaid. And I will begin by explaining this last example, by explaining exactly what we mean when we say that subcontracted workers cannot charge what is owed to them as a result of an error by the contractor, which is the Department of Health, or because of the neglect of the Department, or because of mismanagement, or because of issues that escape us. To the point. Do you remember how on the eve of the pandemic, on December 31, 2019, the UTE Larrialdiak Maiz hung up on the Department, dropped out, and how thanks to the workers the service was maintained? Do you remember? Thanks to the will of the staff, the citizens, and in particular the citizens of Araba and part of Bizkaia, had such assistance from the emergency services. But those workers, those workers, are owed money; they have not been paid what the company left unpaid. And you know why you can't execute the debt? You know why? Because the money, the endorsement is in Gibraltar. The Basque Government, which is supposed to ask for approval in the award, which has to ensure that the company is solvent, and to do so it is required a series of documentation, in this case, that guarantee was certified by means of a security agreement with an insurance entity authorized to operate... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... in this case, that guarantee was certified by a security agreement with an insurance entity authorized to operate in the branch, and we have here to guarantee the solvency of which joints are held. This can be contrasted by the specification of particular administrative clauses for the procurement of services, sections 12.2.7, 13.2.12, and also by Law 9/2017 of 8 November on Public Sector Contracts. But look where, which the Basque Government did not counter, it did not counter the head office of insurance, and now it cannot claim the debt nor can it be executed. The Basque Government retained the endorsement, but it cannot be implemented. Meanwhile, the ones who pay the dish are the same and the same as always, the workers: without paying the extra Christmas pay, holiday nights, overtime, vacation, etc., etc. More or less, only in Araba 250.000 euros. The money in Gibraltar, the unpaid workers. And what kind of contracts, with whom, how does the government make them with everyone's money? How could this happen in an award in the Department of Health? And the only thing left, finally, is to pay for it, but after all, it's fun. It's the saddest thing to do with everybody's money. Telita. Por cine, a company in UTE is still working for fun, and he gets the public money. Besides, we pay for the money of all the citizens. But all history doesn't end here. What's happening in Emergence has a long rope. It's a long rope. Look, the toughest moment of the pandema between March 2020 to May, the antique workers who had been working for sick covids in the hospital are still unpaid. There are cases that owe you 18,000 euros, 8.500, 2.068, but they don't point out how they're inventorys, if they don't lose the job here, or if they're hired again. And, for example, the workers that owe him 8,500 will lose 4,000 euros. Even without a contract, people are still at work, people are still working without a contract. News of news, Araba and Bazaz have been unpaid by workers working for Emergence. There are still more attacks, remember all the attacks that had been charged before summer. But what about the census of the independence? Where are the notifications going? How do they manage? We asked several questions, and we asked the manager of Emergence to explain it to us. But the report, the answer we've been through is that the recommendations are suspended with COVID-19. As to clinical security, we asked several questions, and in your answer we were told, for example, that they must have a second talent for safety; They don't even have the localization device, so that it's better for them to know where the accident is and to get there first. There's a protocol in union that determines that the nearest ambulance will be sent. But, for example, this is not the case in Araban. We have examples of this, but, for instance, Nanclares is sent from Legutio once more when the ambulance is closer to Zarangan and the ambulance in Zaranbra is available. It's also happening that in emergencies there are 20 minutes of waiting, and you know that waiting is too much. For example, Araban, there are no ambulances for psychiatric emergencies when they're in the other countries. And the psychiatric emergency in the past two years has been terribly high. Even the farms, the ambulance bases must be in order, and unfortunately there are plenty of privations. For example: ambulances must be at the most 50 meters from base, we have cases that are within 120 meters, or in the basement because they're low, and you know this must be a very good re-opener for calls and reception. There is no formation. The formation in this area is a terrible lack. In Biscay and Gipuzia, they have written protocol at the center of coordination, not Araban. It is a remarkable lack of staff, both in the centres of co-ordination and in the ambulances; and this has the right effect on the shifts of the blackmailers, the vanities, the vanities, the extra hours, and so on. And, consequently, accidents happen and more accidents happen. We have a lot of examples, and we could talk a lot about this matter as we did when the manager of Emergence came to the board. But this whole thing has a manager, and he's in charge, responsible, it's a health department, it's fun. The security and contractor would have to take a close course to guarantee the contract's average service. But what did he do? What did he do? What's he doing? So, chief physician, what measures of health department will it take to offer a quality service, and for that purpose to employ workers under proper conditions of work? For if workers do not act under suitable conditions of work, it is impossible to give them the care and endurance of quality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u92	Mrs. President of the legislature, Chief, members of the legislature. The description that works in justification of the activity has nothing to do with the present reality of the emergency transport network. Let's start with that. And when you mention the emergency service, and then what you've developed... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ...with current network reality. Let's start with that. And when you mention the emergency service, and then develop it. It is true, and it is true, that at one time, when the contests were assigned, the resource was established in the Administration field, and that in the judicial case the means of providing the service were conditioned; But once recourse, some enlightened, others carry their way, the present reality is different. And you mentioned some criteria and some examples, but you didn't show how the service is fixed today and how it works. You explain it as a whole, and so you open it and talk about the conditions of the workers. I've been with those workers, and I've seen how Emergence is handled, and I've seen the criteria. It is easy to say here what is nearest to it, no, Mrs. Ubera; And this is handled by professionals in full professionalism. In 2019, a company announced that she would stop giving her services when the settlement was needed. Some nomines didn't pay, nomines the workers ask for the company, not the company, not the government. And that the question is judicial, and that this situation is to be resolved, and you know that it has its ways and its times. And the result is that we must wait for what you are supplying. But besides, not to "Muddy" but to a fixed company. Workers to the company. That was a situation, a few years ago, and it's not like that today. It does not justify that there are problems of structure, that there are no adequate protocols, or that there are not enough resources. I'll tell you what the actual reality of the service is. The Emergency Service and the emergency health transport network, in particular, are made up of different types of ambulances to respond to the demand for health care. We have a medicalized helicopter and 11 advanced life support resources with doctor, 11 advanced life support ambulances with nursing, 63 basic life support ambulances; there are 402 people dedicated to the provision of this service. Basic life support resources provide assistance on the basis of care protocols, all based on care protocols; there are currently about 30 approved and in force, and are reviewed and updated on the basis of assessment and needs. Similarly, a large number of operational procedures and technical instructions are available to regulate matters such as health, multi-victim incident intervention, fire insurance, and many others. And part of this service is provided both with own staff and with staff of contracting companies of the service. And they don't have a single criterion, as I told you before and as you have mentioned, however. With regard to urgent and scheduled transportation: we have 428 ambulances and 592 people working in the service. Since 2018, there has been a technical instruction that includes in a comprehensive, comprehensive way, in addition to the health and PPE of staff, operational aspects relating to daily and periodic reviews, changes of ambulances and the responsibilities of the emergency service and of the contractors; of which I can assure you, follow-up is appropriate. The equipment provided for these ambulances is so complete that it turns these resources into advanced life support if medical or nursing personnel are incorporated into them, because this would be required at a time of extreme need. Approximately 95 % of the fleet of contractors in the emergency health transport network is less than two years old. In the reserve fleet, 50% of vehicles are also less than two years old. It's a constant control of service, and we can say that circumstances, usually delays, are very small. Things are usually connected with hospital shirts. It's the way the Centres do, and it's usually the same time that the hospital pads are connected, and it's not always easy to have the resource at the same time that's given up. It could be that, but it can't spread out by saying that everything else is upside down. Besides, you see, 15 special ambulances were put in service because of the pandemy, so they suspected infection by moving patients to one place. In addition to having isolated rooms for the driver, each mobilization requires a process of disinfection, guaranteed the full security of taking another friend. An hour's disinfection. In order to show the exactness of it, it is as it ought to be. Service's working normally now. The last allocation also brought a new appendage value: to have a fleet of electric vehicles, which assists the global commitment to a more permanent economy. It is, therefore, not only to improve, but to render this service more and more useful, and to make it more agreeable, to necessity, and to other necessities, what is consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u94	Madame apple, the problem is not for appeals, the problem is not in court, the problem is not in business, the problem is that when the contract was made and it was assigned for neglect, negligence, or whatever it was, the contract did wrong to ensure that the contract hadn't been exploited, contracted, and solved into Gibraltar's satisfaction... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... The contract didn't make any difference, contradicted it, and the satisfaction of Gibraltar has the social residence, and now the hands are tied to it. So here's the problem with how the Department of Health manages services, how the Contracts are made, and how the Control and Track is done. You told me about the inspection. We may speak a great deal in this circle, in what manner inspections are made: You can call the phone first, tell me when they're leaving, and then you'll see how much time it's investing, too, there's a lot to talk about. You have also mentioned the disinfection, and we can talk of it whenever you like. There's a problem here, a problem occurred on the one hand that the emergency UTE has to be paid to people. And what you have to pay for is you. Then all you have to do is pay them for it. And then what happens is that we have company here often, which can pay for being a tight debtor, but it runs away to pay. But in the meantime, I'm sure you're hired by another UTE. Well, it's all pretty pathetic, isn't it? And the situation is at last structural. It's structural. It's a problem that we're evacuating for years that we're finding in Emergence. And another example of what happened in the pandema. Even the workers who work undercontradicted for emergency workers were the last to insert them. And always have to be pressing, right? ; it must be followed. So what we want to know is how long you have to maintain this type of management. In the end, it reduces quality, and we do not understand why you persist in preserving this model of management which you insist on, we do not understand what may be in the background. And what we cannot continue is that what is a service of life or death is like that of the public health system, like the Emergence, the marginal. This is not acceptable, and that must be rejected; it must be subverted. And sometimes we've made a few proposals to review it, to revolutionize it. I remember, as the first step before, we proposed an autonomical agreement, we agreed with you, it cost us years, and we know that this development was not all the responsibility for you, but it finally took place. We've also asked for release, because we think a service of this kind as a living or dead must be public, so that these stimulants don't happen, and that there's a real control and continuity. And we make things with quality, and we make several proposals that can take a step. For instance, we have stated by Osat, a legal entity like Osat, or by a decree of vinculation, using a legal form, used with theological. There may be several formulas, and have already begun to take steps in this direction, even in other communities. The standard of whalear we had here, they're going to race Navarro, they've started in Erriox, they've started Argoin, and all the results have been positive, and they've been far better results than they did in the model of management before. So we're thinking about doing a serious reflection on it. And in conclusion, one must pay the workers what one owes them, and there you are the ones who are the last guarantees. All the neglects and indiscretions he's doing in the management he's doing. And, indeed, there must be a deep and serious reflection about the publication. And, to finish this shift, I'd like to say that we don't understand how the Monday committee has stopped, when some decisions have been made, when we've decided to go into another phase, but, as the President said, pandemia...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is up. Mrs. Ubera, your time is up. What you have to say to the chief physician, go to him and tell him. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u96	Look, Mrs. Ubera, how service is, and whenever you like, we'll talk about what you want. The lawsuit's in court between workers and companies, so don't go in there. You know it's a thing between workers and corporations and what they're doing. But we don't know what you're doing in such a mess as usual, whether it's the interest of some employees or if the management of the fun is on the move, or whether the same services can be shaken off. Don't confuse things, and we can talk about whatever you want. And if you want to talk about the model we don't agree with, bring that back. You don't agree with the pattern, and you're going to say what's the proposition you make and why you don't agree with the pattern, and we'll tell you why this pattern keeps it or can't be the choice, but in front of you. Tell me about it. Just don't bring something else here, but I don't know what the state of the workers is and I don't know what I'm talking about. No. The emergency service now exists is a good service, and it is well supported. And we have to make that clear. And they're professionals, too. And they are made of the way prescribed by the contractation. Compared to the situation you've been in for a few years, and you know also that it's one of the advantages of service in 2019... Yes, that's it... The first marriage of Euskarian Sanitarian transportation in 2019 has been signed by a collective autonomical collective agreement. It's just a joke, isn't it? No... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... First sign of collective autonomical agreement. It's just a joke, isn't it? No. He did well to make it so. And he has respected her in all her contracts. 100% of the Patronal and 70% of the union delegation signed this agreement. This speech represented five contracts which had hitherto been made at the same time, of which many years ago have been abandoned, and which increased the constant strikes of the workmen, a treaty which is a reference to all the health transports of the state. For the Department of Health, it is very important that there is a framework of labour relations and working conditions in a matter as important as the one we are dealing with. In general terms, in addition to the planned wage increases, reductions in the annual working day were agreed, the maximum age limit was increased, a new increase in attendance was introduced, the conditions of contracts in practice, supplementary social benefits and paid leave and leave were improved. They are important measures, all of them, and we are happy about them; assuming that this has a cost to the Department of Health. As you know, all these improvements are to be seen in the specifications for the award of services. In this way, the cost increased from EUR 64.9 million in 2019 to EUR 74 million in 2020. Now we can say that the service works normal, and that it's all those work conditions, and that it's done with your contractations. It is true that there is still a suitor in the judicial seat of the crew, and that we hope to solve it as soon as possible. So much the better for everyone. And besides, he'll guarantee the safety of being attached to it and he'll be around an hour... I'm sorry, and we're expecting the resolution as soon as possible. Why? For it will be evident to all, but the conditions and conditions of service are such as we have mentioned, Mrs. Ubera. That's reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpology, Laura Garrido Knörre Eusula, a member of the Ciudadans of the Medical Department, in size to repair the deficiencies of the Osalist." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u98	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief departments, chief departments, good day members of the legislative class. Well, it has been two hard and intense years, it seems that we finally light the way to the longing for normality, although, no doubt, as we all know, and from the collective and individual responsibility we have as citizens, because we have to maintain minimal preventive measures. All this has been possible thanks to the immunity of the population due to the vaccination that has allowed the containment and spread of the virus. We believe that now is the time to take stock, to make a rigorous assessment of what has happened in order to change and to be able to improve those aspects that have not worked well or those problems and shortcomings of our system, that were there, and that have certainly clearly emerged in this pandemic situation. I believe, Madam Counsellor, that it is time to look at some issues, and in that regard we cannot go over some specific aspects which I believe, as I say, need to be put on the table without delay in order to analyse them. One of them is a question that we have repeatedly referred to, which is the assessment of all those measures that have been put in place to know the effectiveness of these measures and to answer the question of the million that we make many Basque citizens today, and we have made many Basque citizens throughout all these months: why have we been at the forefront of the number of contagions with the most severe restrictions? Even when other autonomous communities have eased or lifted many restrictions and restrictions have been maintained here, we have continued to lead those numbers in the number of contagions compared to the rest of the autonomous communities. We believe that it is also time to improve and remedy multiple errors and shortcomings that have also emerged during the management of this pandemic. I am going to refer to some of them, which I have also mentioned over the course of all these months; in a way, of course, of a summary, because we have the time we have and we have already debated a lot on these issues. In relation to the tracking network, the few resources that it has been endowed with, that it has not been well articulated, that it was even dismantled prematurely, and that, then, when it was needed, it was not well prepared or prepared, because I say it was dismantled. It hasn't really been used to detect where the outbreak was. On the other hand, Madam Counsellor, and I am also extending it to the Basque Government, one thing that has attracted much attention has been that there have been no experts, many of them specialists, who have said that they have been left out of many decisions when they could have had much to say. Nor has the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases created ad hoc that in the year 2016, especially for this type of situation, as it was at the time, by Councillor Darpón, to deal with the situation of Ebola. Nor with the epidemiology units, which we also consider that it is now necessary to strengthen in order to cope with situations or to be able to cope in the best possible conditions with situations that may come in the future. There have undoubtedly been problems with vaccination, Madam Counsellor, which I think is pertinent to remind you of in this inquiry, since we are making a tour of the management of this department - I say - briefly, because, obviously, the time gives for what it gives. For a long time... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... making a tour of the management of this department - I say - briefly, because, obviously, time gives for what it gives. For a long time we did not reach the pace expected, and we were also in line for vaccinations. Vaccination in the residences has also had its darkest-darkest, blackest than we would say. The vaccination of young people. We have known as the thirty-year-olds of our autonomous community, young people at this age are the most infected, compared to other territories as well. As for child vaccination, it has also stagnated. We would have liked to ask these questions last week, but it was not possible because it was Mr Bildarratz, the Education Adviser, who appeared before the Health Committee. In this sense, I do have to say that we would have liked it if you hadn't been here last week too. I know that this question gives rise to what it gives, but I would ask for a reconsideration of the decision to suspend the Monday committee with its appearance, for a great deal of health emergency that has been lifted. I believe that, being in the House, that we are representatives of all Basque citizens, I believe that on Monday, and in that sense we have submitted a letter to the Bureau of the Commission, to the Presidency - which I do not know if the President is here at the moment, if I see her - so that she can reconsider the decision and the adviser can appear on Monday, as was planned, above all to report on the measures announced by the LABI, which apart from being known by the media, I believe that where it is to be reported is in this Parliament. As for contagion in the school community, we believe, Madam Counsellor, that surveillance and tracing units have not worked as expected either. There has not been an adequate response to the educational community, to the parents, who on many occasions have had to fill the lack of decision of this government. And in the face of the inaction of the Departments of Health and Education, responsibility has been shifted, as he said, to the parents. The contagion numbers were communicated to this surveillance and tracing unit, and no response was obtained; even classes in which no criteria have been established with five or six people infected. Changes in criteria regarding the covid passport have also been constant. At first, you were reluctant; then, you put it, when other autonomous communities who were in favour put it before, that is, you went to rebuff and late; and then, to suddenly request its extension and extension over time, with insufficient justification, which was also understood in the ruling of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. In relation to masks, in recent times we have seen that they have remained very favorable in their use, of their external use, and we have never known in which reports they have supported their judgment on the maintenance of masks in the exterior. Also, another issue that was clearly motivated by the saturation and overload of primary care, was the change in criteria regarding how diagnostic tests were performed or what diagnostic tests were prioritized in the autonomous community. First, they were all PCRs; you yourself even, and I have told you many times, did not see with good eyes that other autonomous communities prioritized the carrying out of antigen tests, when you finally had to decide on these tests, at a time especially of difficulty, with a high number of contagions and with the strained health system. I'm going to focus on primary care. Lack of personnel. A problem has been highlighted or a structural problem has arisen with more virulence, which was there, and which we all know and know, and which requires an immediate response. And we, in that regard, have already raised the need for an immediate action plan for primary care. We talk about that the emergencies have been saturated, that surgical operations have been delayed over time; delays in the follow-up of chronic patients and in the appointments of Osakidetza users. And a faithful reflection of all this is the situation of the professionals, who have been clearly overwhelmed by this sixth wave and, as I have told you before, who have denounced the lack of personnel to meet a separate demand for assistance. That is why, Madam Counsellor, I think it is time to do something self-critical, to learn from the mistakes, to remedy them once and for all so, hopefully not, to be able to cope with possible future situations or new waves that may appear. We have seen too much change of opinion, confusion and disconcertingness in the citizenry with the actions of this government. The test has not been passed as expected, and this is the feeling of an immense majority of Basque citizenship. They have always been, or have always boasted of being good managers, but their own myth of management has fallen on them after these two years of management of the pandemic. That is why we ask him: what measures he intends to take - although obviously now is the different scenario - to alleviate the deficits that have been demonstrated in Basque public health at a time, especially at a time when there has been a major impact of the pandemic on the Basque health system. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u99	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u100	Mrs. President of the legislature, Chief, members of the legislature. As for the appearance next Monday, Mrs Garrido, I come to this Parliament whenever I am required; always, as it is today, and as it cannot be otherwise. Monday's call is scheduled to comply with a law, in a given situation, which is not currently being given; so far. I've received a communication, and that's what I stick to. I have to admit, Mrs Garrido, that although I did not understand the first part of your speech today, it is because it is things, the same things, that you have been saying in the Health Committee over the weeks to which I have responded over and over again. Another thing is that you do not want to accept it, you do not share it - which I can respect - but insists on aspects in which I have told you again and again that it is not true, that it is not so... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... He does not want to accept it, he does not share it, which I can respect him; but he insists on aspects in which I have told him again and again that it is not true, that it is not so. The Committee on Emerging Infectious Diseases, which we do not take into account, which we do take into account, the epidemiological network, has nothing but the reports that are part of, among others, of the work that we take into account, we took into account in the Technical Scientific Committee of LABI to make our proposals. And so I could go on with everyone he's ever told. And it is a shame because I have to admit that when I have read the justification of your inquiry I have done it with satisfaction because it moves me, it makes a brief but very realistic description of the situation we have experienced in these weeks. It is true that I do not share with you that Basque health spends great structural problems beyond the shortage of medical staff specialized in family medicine and community health or pediatricians. But this is an evil - and as you know, because we have shared it many times and because you know it is true - that it afflicts all the health-care services of the State and also of other countries. Moreover, Basque health and health care policies are aware of bodies and agencies that evaluate our work according to absolutely objective criteria, as well as Basque citizenship, which also gives its opinion, and which is also what we really care about. From there, I believe that it also makes a very accurate analysis of what has happened, not the previous ones, nor specifically in this sixth wave that began slowly in October and that in mid-December it grew exponentially with the omitron burst, indeed: incidence rates that reached 7,000 points, 7,000 points in 14 days per 100,000 inhabitants; many days with more than 5,000 positive cases, we have come to perform more than 30,000 diagnostic tests per day; there have been up to 800 people infected in hospital plants in mid-January and more than 140 people in ICU. And in addition, we have continued with vaccination and with the rest of the attention demanded by our citizens. I invite you to compare that too with those other communities with which you say that Euskadi does not have a better situation. I invite you. These are also indicators of pandemic management. These are health indicators. These circumstances that I have described make it impossible for a health system to stay out of tension. It is impossible not to affect primary care and emergencies. It is impossible to maintain the same surgical activity or the same screening and follow-up activities for people with chronic diseases. It is impossible that professionals are not at times tense, very tense. I am glad that you recognize all this, because from a time to this part it seems that for some people the pandemic is not a serious and dangerous reality that continues to haunt us, that it remains present, especially vulnerable people. I want to remember that people continue to die every day; yesterday, ten, today, five. Prevention measures are valued and criticized for the harms and discomforts they cause us, not for the objective they pursue: to control the expansion of the pandemic. The performance and status of health services is valued and criticized, as if they could be separated from those thousands of people who every day require diagnostic tests, health care, hospital or ICU income. The reality is that the system, with all these drawbacks, continues to work, because it is a robust system. There are many measures we have taken to deal with this situation, which have helped us to reduce the pressure on our care system and are making it easier for us to return to normality. In order to cope with the omitron eruption, we increased the number of people hired in those professional profiles that were needed, in the professional profiles that were needed, and that were available in work bags and in the market. The December payroll at 45,731 people. Never before have there been so many people working in Osakidetza. There are 2,100 more than in December 2020 and 4,749 more than last December without a pandemic; that is, 2019. Voluntary retired staff have been hired to assist us in the management of the pandemic, especially in the processing of job losses. By the way, we do not take days and days to process them, the maximum delay is two days and in most organizations there is no delay. In view of the new Omicron variant - with great speed and contagion capacity - the tracking network was adapted and the use of antigens was extended with the objectives of - and I explained it to you, but I repeat it again - to gain rapid diagnosis, to lighten the workload of primary care and to focus the efforts of the screening teams on the most vulnerable groups. Those objectives have been achieved. Consistent with this strategy, we enable testing points in intermediate locations close to laboratories that allow faster transfer of tests and notification of their results. It also frees a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot, of the incidence in health centres. Together with all this, we put new telematic resources at the service of the citizenry that allowed the health services to be informed quickly if they had been positive in the antigen test acquired at the pharmacy, to report the condition of close contact, to request a diagnostic test or to apply for ITE per covid. Practically, and despite the fact that we still have more than 400 people on the ground floor due to COVID-19 and 80 more in ICU, we are recovering the affected surgical activity, we are recovering the face care. This, this development that we now have, will allow us to recover from non-urgent activities that had been postponed as soon as possible. That's what's going to make us recover normal health care, let's continue in this wave of decline in COVID-19 involvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u102	Madam Councilwoman, it would be surprising if, in summary terms, I in this inquiry would not have raised issues different from those I have referred to over the course of these three months. That is why I believe that, in the interests of coherence and issues - whether we have been able to agree or not, and we have had many disputes and differences in the things that I have put on the table today - I obviously have to maintain coherence. Because what I have pointed out as shortcomings or criticisms I have been able to make of the management of this government, because I still think they are so, so today I have tried to put them in the intervention today as well. As far as primary care is concerned, I do have to say that, aside from the fact that issues that were there have emerged, more virulently, let's say, it is a strategy that we have demanded to review earlier, and we have already raised it in numerous initiatives. As for the tracking network, because I think it didn't work properly, and you, in the end, threw the towel yourself because you saw they weren't coming. And then, with regard to the changes in opinion, I do believe that there have been many changes in opinion by this Government at very decisive times, at a time when citizens were expecting certainties, clear answers, and I believe that there has been confusion in citizenship. In relation, for example, to an issue which I have not mentioned before, but which I have mentioned all these months, it has been the subject of the protocols. The criteria to be followed by professionals have often been changed, and many centres have not been clear, and there is nothing more to hear from professionals. And you know him well too. As for the covid passport, for there have been many hesitations; when other autonomous communities - I am not going to enter into the effectiveness of the measure or not - but as for other autonomous communities they considered it to be mainly effective to be able to promote vaccination, you did not see it clear. And finally, they proposed it, and a few weeks ago, when a week earlier they said that the stage was more or less optimistic, as they surprise us by asking for its extension and expansion. I think there's been a change of heart there. You appeared in this Parliament on a Monday and the stage was rather optimistic, and a few days later we saw the news that you were going to propose your extension and enlargement to other places. And above all, they do not justify it well, that is to say, in specific matters, they have not done their duties; and I believe in this as well as in other matters which, clearly, and I have to say this to you, because we do not think this Government has been able to live up to the circumstances. Obviously, it is understandable to all that in such a tense situation one cannot cope with the same situations normally as before, that no one questions it. That is why I think it is appropriate, Madam Counsellor, that an evaluation of the measures put in place can be carried out. But I'm not saying it, I think this is an opinion shared by many experts, many scientists. I think there is one person - who we have also seen a lot during all these months, who was former health adviser of the Basque Government and with whom I had the opportunity to learn a lot, to share many moments, and we also collaborate, because at that time it was when we were supporting the lehendakari Patxi López - who was Rafael Bengoa, who recently in an interview also made a reflection on the need to make a diagnosis of the measures and an assessment of the measures that had been put in place. And this we say a long time ago. That is why I thank you for referring me once again to everything you have done, but what we need to know now is whether everything you have done has been effective, has worked and, above all, as I have said, learning from mistakes. And that is why this question, Madam Counsellor, speaks of the future; it does not remain in the past and tries to speak of the future. And that is why we believe that, in this regard, there must be a reflection on the part of this Government, a certain self-criticism and the ability to amend those issues that have not been done well; and I sincerely believe that there are many issues that have not been done well. Because no one, let's hope it isn't, but if a similar scenario comes, for everyone, counselor, I think that what we all want is for our health system, our Osakidetza, to rise to the occasion and be able to respond to the needs that citizens may have, as you have to do at all times. But we really need to be prepared, and for that we need to do a reflection, an assessment and to know what has been done wrong in order to be able to put the measures and amend the mistakes, and that we are best prepared to deal with those situations...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u103	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u104	If we have not done something, Mrs Garrido, in this government it is to throw the towel; neither in the tracing nor in anything. What we have done has been to adapt to the reality of the pandemic at every moment and, therefore, to provide the necessary answers to address that reality. And besides, that's how we keep going. Osakidetza, as he did at the end of the first wave and in the successive waves, will regain the normality of attention, because during all this time we have had to deal with and worry with particular attention for the people who have suffered and continue to suffer from the covid, in addition to the diseases and situations that have required the intervention of Osakidetza; but we have not complied with that. We have laid the foundations that will ensure a future in quality and quality care. I will list some of them for their importance in terms of quality and quantity, because they range from primary care to the most specialized. According to the Ministry of Health and the Amancio Ortega Foundation, the project to install a proton radiation therapy team in Euskadi has already been set up. It is no coincidence that Euskadi is one of the chosen places to host this modern installation. We have just put into operation the new surgical block of Txagorritxu, pediatric emergencies and new general emergencies; a modern facility... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... We have just put into operation a new surgical block of Txagorritxu, the pediatric emergencies and the new general emergencies; a modern, model installation, which guarantees quality care to the OSI of Araba. We have designed and deployed in the Sociosanitary Care Strategy in collaboration with the rest of departments and institutions and with an important financial endowment. The integration of Onkologikoa is already a reality that brings enormous added value to our cancer control services. In just over two months, we have opened up four new resources for the mental health care of vulnerable groups, such as young people and adolescents: resources of day hospitals. This year we have committed 107 million euros in works and investments in facilities, 20 works over the million euros, 19 projects in new equipment, over the million euros. We are already immersed in the implementation of the new OPEs that will help to give stability to the templates. And, from the point of view of the rights of citizenship, we have made reality and articulated the putting into service of a new right enshrined in the Law of Euthanasia: the right to a dignified death. We will soon pass a new health bill and, in a few months, we will have a health plan that will guide our action towards 2028. As you can see, we have not been stopped despite being to attend to the most urgent. As soon as the pandemic allows us, Osakidetza will begin to recover its best version, and soon you will also be aware of the independent evaluation that is being done, which has already been carried out, at the request and initiative of the Department of Health and this Government. I hope you share that this evaluation, the results of it, is independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of David Soso Rodríguz together Podemos, a member of the Antices to the chief physician of the Medical Department, in the state of the transfer of the surgeon's hospital activity." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u106	Good morning, Counselor. As you well know, in the region of Bidasoa there is a lot of concern about the closure of the hospital's surgical block. To date, all we know is, apart from the closure, that patients will be transferred to Donosti's Oncology, presumably. Here are some of the questions people ask themselves: Will the same quality of service be guaranteed? Does the oncology meet the necessary conditions? How will patients in need of emergency surgery be transferred by taxi? What's going to happen to the interim surgical workers? What will happen to family members, especially those who have the most difficulty in moving? And the most important: Why is an annex not built, as long as the works last, at the Bidasoa Hospital itself, and so it does not drift to the people, as it happened in Zumárraga? On this issue, Madam Counsellor, there are few people in the region of Bidasoa who feel that we are being treated as second-rate citizens, given the lack of information on this issue. Therefore, I ask you: What is the status of the transfer of the surgical block?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u107	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u108	Mr. President of the Parliament, Congressman and chief physician. In the justification of his question, he makes an assertion that starts with an error and that conditions, therefore, the subsequent account. You say that the transfer of the surgical activity for the realization of the works in the Hospital of Bidasoa is an anomaly regarding the treatment given by similar institutions prior to other Basque hospitals. Well, there is no similarity possible, the only similarity is the periodic improvement and reform of all Osakidetza's operating rooms in order to have adequate and modern infrastructures. But there are no similar situations, because there are no two equal hospitals in Euskadi in terms of their architectural configuration. And the crucial question in these works is the architectural configuration. If works have been done in other hospitals, closing only part of the activity, or expansions of hospitals have been used to reform the operating rooms, but none of these circumstances are given in Bidasoa. And with regard to the current status of the project, consideration is being given to how to address the works and services provided in the Bidasoa O.R., incorporating suggestions, possible inconveniences - some you have mentioned - or improvements, even proposed by the organization's own professionals and other agents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u110	Madam Counsellor, the municipalities of the Bidasoa region as well as the municipalities of the Bortziriak area have asked you and have formally asked you for explanations on the project, and you, today, beyond a rather ambiguous letter, have not responded to the questions I have put to you, with the exception, by the way, of the Municipality of Hondarribia, governed by the PNV. The ridiculous has reached such a point that this very week we wanted to start works to adapt the space to the moment when the operating rooms are eliminated, suppressing offices and spaces of primary care, and this work had to be paralyzed because it did not have the work license. I mean, improvisation and lack of foresight. I ask you to heed the requests of the collectives - a collective, moreover, which has been created ad hoc - and 30 associations of neighbours of the area and paralyze the project before, as was done in Zumárraga, a situation I have mentioned earlier. There, the tender was stalled and an annex was chosen. Obviously, hospitals aren't all the same. That's obvious. But you will recognize that annexes have also been established elsewhere. I would like to know whether the reason why the option in the annex has not been envisaged in the Hospital del Bidasoa is an architectural issue. If so, say it clearly here, so that we can have that certainty and transfer it to the citizenry, which you have not done in any of the formal requests for extension of information that have made it not only the citizenry and platforms, but the mayors themselves of the Bidasoa area, as well as Bortziriak. Sit with the interested parties, which is a request they are making to you insistently, and find a solution or let us find a joint solution. It is simple, we only want the same as in other places, that in other places: that the service be maintained while the work is performed, that the service be maintained in the region, that the citizenry not have to be moved to kilometers away in order to receive the same service that, obviously, will be of worse quality taking into account the need for transfer, or that, if necessary, guarantee, but guarantee, formally and... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... in order to be able to receive the same service which will obviously be of the worst quality, taking into account the need for transfer, or which, if necessary, guarantees - but formally and in writing - that the services will be the same and of the same quality, which he has not done, beyond general assertions. But, in any case, I would like you to confirm that the reason for not setting an annex is for architectural issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u111	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u112	The first thing I'm going to ask you is that the assertions you've said, I hope, you have them all substantiated, because some of them also have incorrect information and are making a small accusation. And I will also say, I, all the institutional representatives of the region, all of them, have been given the same treatment. And I've transferred the same to all of them. And it's, uh, it's, uh, it's... it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, That can't deny it to me because I moved it... that completes the functional plan of the works of the Hospital of Bidasoa we will proceed to its transfer the institutional representatives and the citizenship of Bidasoa. And, as I told you, we are doing it, taking into account those suggestions, improvements or discomforts or differences in criteria that have moved us. But you know, the work planned at the Hospital in Bidasoa, what is clear is that it has to be done, because I am sure that what concerns citizens is to have quality care, as in all of Euskadi, but of the best quality, and for that it is essential that we carry out these works; I hope that at least there will not be any question, right? And from there, I'm going to tell you why it's adopted for that solution. Because I think it's also a shared approach. And those approaches are known to those who know about it, expert people, right? For they are the ones who have done the approach of that work, as we have done in other areas, and it is they who have seen that the only possible solution to be able to accomplish that work is the one that has been presented. Absolutely technical criteria. Do you think that we have to consult him or do we have to pay attention to the experts? The experts in construction planning of this nature, in hospital management, in establishing care itineraries to guarantee surgical practice with the guarantees that are required, and in maintaining the rest of the hospital activities that can be compromised by the works, are those who have concluded that it would be impossible to perform the work in phases because there is no way to fit an adequate surgical block circuit; that there is no way to move any of the elements of the block and get a viable circuit at another time. That the security of procedures can be compromised. I understand it's an inconvenience to have to travel to other facilities for certain interventions, but last year...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u113	It's over. Thank you, chief physician. It's over. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is, that Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary laws of the Podemos-IU, made to the chief of the sects of equality, justice, and Society, is to guarantee that the law is fulfilled for the equality of women of the Basque Autonomy, and for the equality of Men." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u114	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chief of the Artola generouss. In January many women from Gasteiz, and those who came to us through social networks, felt attacked by an advertising campaign of the Catholic Association of Propagandists, which urged us to pray in front of the clinics where abortions are practiced. According to Emakunde, in a report, this campaign may be in violation of women's right to the protection of sexual and reproductive health, the fundamental right to personal and family privacy and the right to physical and moral integrity of women. Kanpainak astebete iraun zuen, bain prentsaz bagenekien elkarte horrek, henera, lotura zuzena duela Gasteizko ikastetxe batekin, Virgin Girl hain zuzen, itunpeko ikastetxe gisa Eusko Jaurlaritzaren finance jasotzen duen ikastetxe bat. Commissioner, what action does your department intend to take under the Emakunde report and to guarantee the mandates of the current Equality Act?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u116	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Gonzalez andrea, Emakunde eta zuzentzen dudan Saila zuhurtziaz aritu dira lanean, alferrikako zaratarik ez egiten saiatuz. This campaign violated the fundamental right to personal and family privacy and the right to the physical and moral integrity of women. And it's that no one can pressure or coerce women who decide to exercise their right to abort. This is a situation, and this has been our performance: it has been a discreet but forceful performance. And our goal has been not to contribute to giving more publicity to this campaign, without ceasing to pursue its withdrawal, with legal arguments and with a rights-based approach to each of us. As it is our duty, public administrations will continue to respond to the needs arising from the free exercise of sexual and reproductive rights through programmes and resources, both preventive and assistance. These resources, together with many others, will be able to be strengthened by the amendment of the new law, which seeks to achieve a just, equal and free society of macho violence. These programmes are aimed at facilitating sexual planning and avoiding unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases. And our work will continue to be discreet but effective and forceful, without making the advertising campaign to anti-abortion associations, like the one we are dealing with today. And he quotes in his question what will be the actions we will take to guarantee the rights of the Equality Act 2005, right? And, simply, Mrs Gonzalez, the amendment and adoption of the new law on the equality of women and men free of sexist violence against women, the next law to be passed in this Parliament, that is the answer to guarantee the rights that we are going to have. And I also believe that it will be adopted with a broad consensus in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u118	Thank you. It's true that we have the Euskadin tradition... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u119	Eskerrik asko. Egia of Euskadin tradition dugu berdintasunezko politicoken arloan, national age onartua national. But it is true that a campaign of this kind, during the short week that lasted, has generated symbolic violence against women, emakumeon guztiontzako, in a public real estate space. For us filters have failed, filters that have to do with the formation of the local administration in terms of advertising content that incite violence against women. And, further, the review of observation has been published too late, and we repeat that, as always, it is necessary to increase the preparation of all the employees of the administration in the field of violence. But we have seen in recent years that the training budget is not being implemented for the most part, which means that these resources are not being used. And that, as is evident in situations like these, would be necessary to avoid getting to the situation as we live in January. How are you gonna make sure something like this doesn't happen again? Above all, when the promoter organization itself says that it was not a punctual action, it was within others that it will carry out. You will share with us, Mrs Artolazabal, that this is an offensive against the progress on the agenda of feminist sexual rights and against rights that we are gradually conquering; it contravenes the principles of the current Equality Act, namely that of equal opportunities and equal treatment set out in article 3, which prohibits any public funding for those who incur direct or indirect discrimination. It also goes against the provisions of articles 25 and 26, which "prohibit the performance, broadcast and display of advertisements that present people as inferior or superior in human dignity according to their sex or as mere sexual objects, as well as those that justify, banalize or incite violence against women". Similarly, when an educational institution discriminates by sex, what happens when an organization with an educational presence designs and plans a harassment campaign against women exercising a right? Is this going to become another normality, like keeping funding to centers that segregate by sex? Or was public finance keeping diegu jazartzen duten erakundeei eta horri eutsiko diugu hezkuntza Egyptian wool? We ask ourselves what education or education in the school we have mentioned, that ponemos ente de jucio que sea la adecuada. Look, we're not going to get tired of reporting hypocrisy and neglect many times from a government that, having a law that forbids it, funds public money centers that discriminate by sex...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Time's up. Lady Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u121	Mrs González, I would like to reiterate that from our department, as responsible for equality policies, we have been working from the very first moment with the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz so that, well, we will help you as much as possible when it comes to giving judgment or information about that campaign. We are, and you know perfectly well the existence of the Begira Observatory to avoid sexist or discriminatory duplications, and so we also remind the city council. And the result of this coordinated work has been the legal report that the Government carried out through Emakunde, and as a result it withdrew from the campaign itself, because women's rights have prevailed; that is a fundamental and priority. These days, as I said earlier, the opinion of the 2005 amendment to the law was voted on this very week. We are all ensuring the construction of a more egalitarian Euskadi, strengthening policies and instruments to further promote equality between men and women. Euskadi has been a pioneer, and will continue to be so with the implementation of this new law. We have one final step to take in the adoption of this law, and I hope that it can be adopted this February. Law that will help us continue to fight and prevent actions against women's freedoms. And, finally, Mrs González, the Government is working to reinforce the priority in the system of educational concerts for the centers that are organized under the principle of co-education in order to promote and train on equal terms at all stages of education. As you are well aware, you are aware of the cross-cutting nature of equality policies, coordination and inter-departmental collaboration, and this collaboration is real and effective. And I continue to shake hands with him so that I can continue to work for equality policies, because I believe that it is a basic pillar of the self-government of the Government and, therefore, of all Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The nineteenth point on the subject list has been abandoned for another purpose. The twentieth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jason Aguirre Garitagondia of the EH Collectors to the Chief of Policy and Culturals, about the white-white figure of Childard." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u123	Thank you, Madam President. I am even ashamed to begin by explaining who Childard is and what he has given this country, but I must explain to you, chief of the Cultura and the politics department, the former day when I hear Radio Eukadin, and, unfortunately, I have to explain it to you. And I'll join him, because the standard eucaine you're using was his proposition, then Michelene made up of it, but I must say that Chillard was the creator of the united euca. Besides, the Basques were admitted to him, and this officer of the law would have made him a confession of his 40th. if this pandemy had not been suspended on the anniversary. You know, you're the head of the political language, but I have to say that Childard was precursor in it: the work which he has made for the euphoria is to this day to which the language and the politics are connected. You must protect him as head of culture, and, probably, Chicago modified the literature of Esscal you love. You'll know that, too, but I have to tell you. He was also an activist and a thinker, too, a man of his time, a millionaire, engaged. And you know this, Mr. Chief, in the '50s, it was the intellectual creator of ETA, the EAJ, of your party, to overcome his action and to fight Fancism. For 1967... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... To get over your side, to get out of your way and fight Fancism. He'd left it for 1967 with its initials and its symbol of the hardest francism, painted, destroyed the fascist symbol. A few people can say that he's really made history, but Childardi could say that, he's made history in this country, there's a lot of property he's left in it, even if we don't know it. And in your practice, this head of Cultural and Language are more prominent than ever. And you, chief physician, have compared Chillardi Rodolfo Martín with the criminal Francist Frankist, who is responsible for the murders of March 3, 78. You compare this town to that person who's only a mine, Mr. Childard. And with your words, you've caused pain too. You hurt the euccatists, the patriots, but especially the family of Childard too, and the ones that surrounded you have caused the greatest pain. They also deserve your respect as a leader of funk, they deserve the respect of your words. It's a part of our story, yours, mine, everything, whether you like it or not. history is never as much a thing as one would wish, as that of this people is not what we would like, but it is our history. So, as Chief Cultura and Language, does the chief physician think that to confess Joseph Louis Alvarez to the figure of the Chillard too, is to justify our history?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u125	Chief of Parliament, Mrs. Jasone Aguirre. Yes, in the conversation of January 21, that Radium Euskadin, I said we shouldn't justify our history. And a few words from the former Minister Martín of Villa stood around Michaeles, and I spoke of an initiative in the Grand Council of Gipure near Childardegi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u127	Please, chief physician, do not twist the history of this people's private interests. We'd like you to make that confession worthy of Childardi, but if not, don't insult him, please. And give him the respect he deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u129	President andrea. Mrs. Aguirre, I don't intend to argue about what Childard was. I think almost everything's been said about what Jose Luis Alvarez was at the market. "We felt much closer to Txillardegi's narrative, for example, because of his theme, his style, the problems he posed than that of other writers. He had read the novels of Txillardegi, such as Leturiaren egunkari ezkutua and Peru Leartzako. Soon his essays were published Huntaz and he was fed up. " Xabier Leteren hitzak dira, Eugenio Ibarzabal kazetariari 1978an Herri Irratian emandako elkarrizketa batan esanak. I believe that these words of Lete are of the highest value to understand the importance that Childardegi had in the culture environment in the '60s. Lete himself spoke of many others in this conversation: Otheiza, Arsitide, Echaid, Saizarbitoria, Beochola, Rikardo Argrei, Juan San Martín, Joxehu, Michael lasa, and so many others. I don't think you can understand Chillard too writers and linguists, and Childard too politics and enterprises. The Euskar took Childardi engineer to politics and to performances. He says so. He who wants to know about the political thought of Chillardi is easy to know, let him play the part of his reflection on his website, and there he will find all the works in the Chillarra, including the articles he had written of eucaly and youth, and he will easily find out the substance of his political thought. I didn't want to talk about Childardegi in the Radio Basque conversation. I wanted to talk about EH Collector. He didn't understand how to raise Chillard's language, and to hide the political thought of Childard too. That's why I said I saw a drill in the EH Collectation initiative. And I ask myself another question. I don't understand why in the reign of 2011 and 2015 Battuk, he didn't give his gold badge to the biggest spokeer in the gym. Anyway, I don't want to keep stirring the mud in this well, Mrs. Aguirre. I'm not who the Giants from Gipulia or the City of Donostian are to tell us what to do. Anyway, I think it's time we built bridges. The time for listening to the victims of violence and remembering the victims, and the only thing that interferes with them. We are all bound to make peace with our past. Those who had been victims on the events of the third of March, want to confess and confess. In Bilbon, in the cemetery of Begoña, the wrecks of the bodies of 37 are dug up and searching for light around them. And many of them have become victims by their activity, and many seek instruction. How many years will they have to wait? Or must they perhaps see how memory goes out without light? Aren't we worth some clarity? Should we not all, who are living, require this demand of light, to make amends for the pain of the past, of the present, and of the offspring?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-02-11.u130	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended one o'clock in the morning and twenty-three.
