ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I may inform you, that two lords and ladies have inherited the vote, and that the fourth point on the subject will be discussed in the fifth place, and the fifth point in the fourth place. First point in theme list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: The motion, the social and economic shield that David Soso Rodríguz introduced together by Podemos-Nozzerbez members of the Antice team, the sizes of which the house, the small, the mid-town corporations, and the industry will benefit. The motion, introduced by the Congress of the Casanova Alonso EH gathered together, in front of the effects of the war, as to the measures to protect the Basque Autonomy and the economics." Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Soso, it's yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors. Good morning, everyone. Today we are dealing with an issue that has already been dealt with in full control by two calls from two parliamentary groups in this House and next week will also be dealt with in a long and detailed monograph, and it is therefore the crisis of oil, raw materials and energy prices that our country is currently suffering and, in turn, also the high inflation that, as a result of the high price of hydrocarbons, is being generated throughout the economic system. For our parliamentary group, this shows, in the same way that the pandemic crisis has shown that austerity has weakened the public protection system and, consequently, has created a deep fragility in order to deal institutionally with the crisis that has occurred and that we are still in the process of doing so, this situation of fragility and price crisis shows that the policy pursued in order to deregulate in order to generate an ecosystem that allows an open economy in Euskadi to introduce foreign capital into this articulation of a value chain of companies that are constantly moving has made us more dependent. And, in turn, the fact that we have not made the energy transition since the time when it was said that it was necessary already decades ago, the fact that we have not addressed that energy transition has also made us more fragile. Today, Euskadi is one of the most energy-dependent regions in Europe. 90% of the energy we consume needs to be brought out. We are only 10 %, well below the EU average, which is 43 %. And, therefore, this indicates that we suffer from a tremendous fragility with regard to energy supply. And, in our view, this has much to do, as I said, with not having done the duties in time and now, quickly and running and making it easier for private resources to enter, allow in protected areas, where appropriate, the opening of wind mega-plants or, failing that, to generate private projects with multinationals with a view to introducing the energy transition now at a cruising speed, when it should have been done in an orderly and planned way for decades. What has really generated Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which we strongly condemn here, is to further exacerbate this dependence and this energy crisis. We believe that we have reached a turning point as a result of the pandemic crisis, the result of the energy crisis we are experiencing now and also as a result of the financial crisis of a decade ago. We've reached a turning point. And it's no longer enough just to apply short-term tips to companies that are going through the worst and also to the most vulnerable people. We believe that we need to make a transformation of our productive model in our country. There are short-term measures that are already under way and will be implemented at the state level. A brief review of them: an increase of 15% in minimum living income, a limitation on rent increases of 2%, 6 billion ICO credits, direct aid - we would have liked from our parliamentary group to have been more - but direct aid to sectors that are currently having a bad time, such as the transport sector and also the sectors linked to agriculture and the first sector, an electric bonus that would have been extended to 600,000 users, not to fire if public funds are received and a bonus of... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... to 600,000 users, not to fire if public funds are received and a bonus of 20 cents per litre of diesel. In turn, implementing compliance with the food chain law, which is hard to implement. And, in turn, maintain and extend the tax reduction on the bill of light. Lower taxes in this case and on a short-term basis, and do not assume the premises of the generalised tax reduction right. It is true that even within the framework of the Chambers there are divisions in the payment of certain taxes, and credit lines have been opened by the Basque Government. And yesterday we also learned about the 500 million Strategic Investment Plan that is being put in place to raise or increase the capacity of the productive fabric, although the investments that are being put in place are basically those associated with European funds, if those European funds are not finally coming in to put in place, something that the adviser, on repeated occasions, for questions from the parliamentary groups, has said that in any case they were going to complete those investments. It is therefore not surprising that they will be carried out. We do believe that in the coming weeks the Basque Government should address a plan that complements and increases what is being implemented at the state level and, in turn, proposes new initiatives. But we do share something that Mr Esteban said yesterday in the Congress of Deputies, and that was something he was putting forward at the beginning of my speech: we cannot just stay up the line of credit and in debt to get past the juncture, but we have to transform our productive model and we have to apply strategic investments to make a lever and allow what is happening at the moment not to happen again, and that is that we do not have an ecosystem, in this case, that allows us to cope with crises of these characteristics, not an open ecosystem at the entrance of foreign capital. And, therefore, we do agree that we have reached a turning point and that it is necessary to articulate a transformation of our productive fabric. To this end, we believe that it is vital that, in the framework of this parliamentary group, i.e., I am sorry, in the framework of this Parliament, we reach a country pact that allows us to address a common position on the needs to transform the productive fabric, to make this energy transition orderly and planned, not opening the doors to capital in protected areas. But we do believe that we need to set in motion and reach agreements in this regard, because it is vital. On the other hand, we also believe that an income pact is necessary, an income pact also in Euskadi that provides the support of trade unions and civil and organised society, because we believe that this cannot go through what the right has always advocated, which is due to a wage devaluation and to widespread tax cuts. We believe that there has to be an income pact that also addresses what has to do with taxation, new modalities of green taxation and a much more equitable redistribution of the burden of this energy crisis. That is to say, the whole economic aid plan that is being put in place both at state level and will be put in place here in Euskadi, must also be accompanied and accompanied by a redistribution of the burden in terms of public resources that the Administration will have to face. We therefore believe that this assessment and this sharing between parliamentary groups and organised and business civil society must be carried out. We believe that consideration needs to be given to the redistribution of resources and also to a reorientation of the tax structure of our country, either by applying extraordinary surcharges at this time to electricity or, where appropriate, by making much deeper reflection on new tax modalities that fall on those who have benefited during the last years and decades of the energy system, in this case the marginalist system. And also, hopefully, we can finally do so at state level to the fallen benefits of the sky, and apply the cap to gas, as the Spanish Government is planning to do within the European framework. We therefore call for a joint reflection by the parliamentary groups in order to be able to reach an agreement both in the next week's full monograph and in global terms on an income pact, and, in turn, on a pact to transform the productive fabric of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u2	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u3	Hello, good morning, everyone. I don't know if you remember that supertrampenska disca Crisis? What kind of crissis? What kind of crisis are we supposed to talk about today? Unfortunately, we've chained one crisis after another lately. For some, the different crisis that we're experiencing in the past few years and decades, is different crisis. Black clouds in a blue sky, with the most recent storms of summer, but then the gate is closed and the sun of prosperity will rise again. But others think it is no accident that there should be more and more crisis, and that they should become ever more and more intense, and that they should become more and more frequently. After all, and we believe that the same crisis shows the reality of a general crisis. We think we're facing a systems crisis. And we think, I don't know about the crisis of capitalism, but at least we're involved in a violent crisis of capitalism, and all subjurys are the different expressions of it. The neliberal neliberal neliberal capitalism has struck the top and we are suffering from the consequences. And it's high because the global neoliberic capitalism has come to an end... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...he hits, and we're under the consequences. And it is high that the global neoliberian capitalism meets the two impassable walls, impassable. On the one hand the physical limits of the planet, and on the other the cohesion of society. With constant growth, cost or cost, it is intolerable, and it is intolerable, it cannot endure, it cannot continue. And now we've got his congation again. This is not just a theory of theoretical exercise. It seems to us that an analytical frame produces in our answers, and that the answers are given in forms and councils. We think, therefore, that we must answer to the grave state we are now suffering with a biphobic glance. On the one hand, we know that urgent measures and answers must be placed on the table because our people are having a bad time, and because they need immediate answers and assistance. But we cannot lose our perspective, and even to know that future measures must be regulated by strategic nature. What we know is a general change of phases and paradigms. The examples, how can we face fuel climb? Removing taxes or changing system. How are we to face the distortions that create the creation and prices of the Egyptian system? Whether to lower taxes or change your system. We think the short-term measures should be downloaded and we must take advantage of them to start giving us these sysistemic changes. I was saying, we're at a general system crisis because it hits physical boundaries and social boundaries. It's a climate heat, or a phenomenon that can sum up more strongly than any physical pressure, but even a social collision has caused heat, and we're talking about global social warming, and this global social warming has serious consequences. The curves are turning into cracks, social conflicts become, when the system favors a concentration of constant wealth, and the larger sectors are excluded. There ariseth fear, anguish, distrust of the future, and also hatred, and false remedy? (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) Beraz, ekonomikoan mesh, klimatikoan mesh and sozialean mesh ataka batan gaude, enkruzijada historiko batan. Eta guri dagokigu heights drain. We said that the neoliberal global capitalist system has clashed with the physical limits of the planet and with the social limits leading our society to fragmentation, despair many times and the search for false authoritarian solutions. We can move towards a world that is self-excluded in the climate and facing societies... The rich entangled in their fortresses, whether within each society or in some countries against others, with war as a paradigm and hatred as a binder. That's one of the paths we've got ahead of us. Or we have to respond by facing structural transformations for the benefit of the majority of democracy and the survival of the planet. Eta hori da guk aldarrikatzen duguna, mundua eraikitzen de la bakoitza bere sparrutik, éta guk mundua aldatzeko gaitasuna ez badaukagu, gure txiki munduan egiten ditugun gauzak behintzat bideratu ditzagun, orientati dizagun norabide egoki batan. It is important that people, citizens, regain confidence in their institutions, as we said before, among other things, to avoid authoritarian temptations. It is important that there is a good governance model of this situation in which people feel desperate. It said in the interpellation that we are not going to fall into catastrophe, but a simple look at the newspapers, the media these days shows us that we are facing a historical inflation that is devouring wages, is devouring pensions, is devouring social benefits, that we are talking about an insurmountable growth in energy bills, fuel bills, heating. We are talking about stalled companies, we are talking about stalled sectors, we are talking about problems in supply chains, we are talking about structural problems that are worsening, such as housing; etc., etc., etc. And to this it is important to respond with measures and with a good governance model. That's what we were asking for today, a good model of response governance. A comprehensive, coherent, unified and economically well-endowed plan that gives citizens a sense of security, that gives citizens the sense that their institutions are addressing all the fronts of this crisis and are doing so with all the resources possible since the commitment not to leave anyone behind. We called for that plan to be contrasted through a process of dialogue with political parties and with society, and for accountability mechanisms to be created for the fulfilment of the objectives of this plan and also for the evolution of the situation. We understand that it was a formal, profound, strictly democratic issue that should not have generated any debate and even less, no rejection. Even so, we meet again with the wall, this time the wall of authoritarianism, of the self-sufficiency of a government that does not dialogue, that does not even speak about issues as basic and agreeable as these. We have a government that preaches unity, but that practices sectarianism, sectarianism of not reaching agreements even on issues of fundamental democratic logic. Eta horregatik kezkatuta gaude, kezkatuta gaude. Arrogance and self-sufficiency is never good. If they are accompanied by results, well, they can have some kind of attenuating, but if they are accompanied by a lack of response above because we are in a very complicated situation, Mr Urkullu, the world is moving and moving faster and faster, and you show that it is leading an analog government in this world, in a digital world. A government that reacts late, a government that is being the last in all, a government that is not assuming a democratic and participatory governance model of a crisis that puts us to it. The Basque People can make an agreement and make important deals, the last of education. I wouldn't just say that there was an agreement with EH Collect in education, but I'd say a great deal of thanks to EH Collect, that the agreement was possible. In the budget, too, things were complicated and we made a deal. And our question is... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... We collect that it was possible for the deal. In the budget, too, things were complicated, and we made a deal. And our question is: Why didn't we even come up with an integral plan today? As I was saying, your government was beginning to move the last one, and we're worried that the first moves are not very reassuring. Yesterday, through an improvisation, some of the measures already formed in a drawer were presented, and he tried to present it as an answer to this crisis. It's a matter of concern, because that's not an answer to this crisis, and that's the plot already planned. And we hope next week, because of your rounds, to see deeper and bolder. As we were saying, the question is that this crisis is what we call logic. If we look at the short term, we can activate the politics of the crabs in hypocrisy and communications, or, in fact, for a short and long period, the deep, bold, and shared responses which this people require. Again, do we not merely say that we are ready (for that purpose? ), but we have shown in practice that we are capable of it. Now it's your turn. Up to this day, in all disputes about this crisis, you have deliberately rejected the choice of union in faction (... ), and we think that it is time to change that attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u4	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u5	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, egun on guztioi. Indeed, Russia's invasion of Ukraine has disrupted the economic situation throughout the world, and the Basque economy is also being adversely affected by the consequences of the war and the sanctions imposed on the aggressor country by the international community. The most immediate has been the rapid rise in energy component prices, which particularly affects Basque companies that make intensive use of energy. Another impact is related to the shortage of raw materials and industrial metals, of which Russia is a reference exporter, affecting manufacturing and the agri-food industry. And in the case of families, inflation reduces purchasing power, so private consumption will be reduced. For this reason, the Basque Government has revised the growth forecasts for the Basque economy, which points to a growth of Basque GDP of 4.5% in 2022, 2.2 points below the previous forecast, and manages an unemployment rate of 9.5% compared to the unemployment rate of 9.2% of the previous forecast. However, the economy is growing, and it is doing so in a solid way. That does not mean that we are experiencing an economic slowdown, which will also have its economic effects. Fortunately, we have the most expansive budgets known to date, which include economic incorporations from European funding, which allows us to maximize public investment and use all available resources thanks to the flexibility of spending rules, which addresses the exit of the pandemic from a transformative perspective, and which is supported by the first opposition group. Therefore, this framework has enabled us to reactivate and strengthen support measures that we already know, and that we have been implementing in the pandemic situation: agile and short-term measures to alleviate as much as possible the consequences of the conflict, pending knowledge of the measures at European and Spanish government level in order to develop a broader plan that complements them. The Basque Government has demonstrated its capacity to react to an unprecedented pandemic, and is now also demonstrating that capacity, with the implementation of the first economic and social measures. Thus, at the Governing Council last Tuesday it was decided to activate new financing tools in order to support companies affected by the consequences of the war, with a extendable credit line of 10 million, and the proposal to co-finance 50% of the Basque Institute of Finance with financial institutions. And the Social Dialogue Bureau is working to bring together the criteria for the activation of ERTEs. Measures and actions taken in collaboration with companies, sectors and social groups most affected by this conflict, with the aim of maintaining activity and employment. However, the correlation of facts and developments is important. We are facing a global energy crisis, and the implementation of these measures must be complementary to the decisions being taken by the European Union and the Spanish Government, because we are not facing a local problem but a global one. In this regard, I would like to highlight the measures recently adopted by the Government of Spain, thus responding to the commitments made at the last Conference of Presidents. It is a plan for a conflict response to the war, with the aim of protecting the most affected sectors and citizens and preserving to the maximum the path of growth and job creation already begun. It is therefore composed of a set of measures which will mobilise EUR 16 billion, EUR 6 billion in direct aid and tax reductions, and EUR 10 billion in ICO credits. And it is grouped into five axes: measures to help families, workers, displaced persons and humanitarian aid, such as the minimum bonus of 20 cents per litre of fuel up to 30 June for all citizens; activation of ERTEs to protect employment; 15 % increase in minimum vital income; extension of the electric social bonus to 600,000 more families; and extension of the tax reduction to the electricity bill. Measures to support the economic and business fabric, such as the new 10 billion ICO credit line, the extension of the maturity and maturity of ICO-backed loans for the most affected sectors, and a package of direct aid to the primary sectors and to the energy-intensive industry. Transport measures, with an injection of more than EUR 1 billion. Measures on cybersecurity, and energy measures to reduce the final price of electricity to households and businesses, the exceptional and temporary measure setting a reference gas price which is used for electricity production approved by the Commission, being very notable in this respect... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... the exceptional and temporary measure of fixing a reference gas price which is used for the production of electricity approved by the European Commission is very noteworthy in this respect. It is therefore a plan of measures that addresses, among other objectives, lowering the price of gas, electricity and fuels, supporting the most affected and most vulnerable sectors and enterprises, strengthening price stability, accelerating the deployment of recovery plans, in particular the energy transition agenda, and boosting energy efficiency. The proposals put forward in the motion by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita are largely reflected in the measures taken by both the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. Other issues, such as green taxation, will undoubtedly be addressed in the debate and in the fiscal reflection that we have before us. But now is the time to address agile measures that reach the most affected groups, such as those recently approved by the central government, or by which they have just approved outlaws related to the exemption from split payments and postponements. In Europe, the Next Generation initiative and its main instrument, the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, represent the commitment to build a more sustainable and just Europe with the United Nations sustainable development goals. That is why, Mr Soto, the best resilience plan to reduce the vulnerability of Euskadi's economic activities to external dependence on energy, raw materials and food is: the determination and commitment to make efficient and effective use of European funds, as well as own financing to promote a green and digital transformation that guarantees a sustainable and just future in Euskadi through the tractor effect of public investment; and two, the commitment of all to ensure that the conviction that the European institutions remain committed to energy, environmental and digital transformations is not broken. Next Generation funds are an example of shared vision and collaboration at all levels: private audiences, between states and regions, and between different administrative levels. Undoubtedly, the unjustifiable war in Ukraine and the sanctions will have consequences for the Spanish and Basque European economies. It will, logically, have an impact on the economy of businesses and families. But just as we are acting together in support of the economic sanctions that the European Union is imposing, we must also act together in dealing with the consequences of these same sanctions and, in general, the impact of this conflict. That is why unity in the response to measures to mitigate the impact of war is essential for this House. And I trust that next Friday's monographic session will be able to provide and agree resolutions that will benefit citizens and the most affected sectors. To this end, we have tabled our amendment, which establishes an open working framework. I therefore call again on all groups to consider their support for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. 36 days of war. 36 days of a peace broken on the continent by siege and bombings that have not ceased. Putin is attacking a country that self-determined by referendum. Putin is killing a defenseless population, and no one or anything is stopping him. It is causing a massive exodus of people fleeing horror and destruction. And against these crimes there are no half inks or ambiguities. It cannot but be the strongest, strongest and unconditional condemnation of this bellicose, anti-democratic and inhumane action. And also support for all victims. Also military support to be able to defend itself, without demagoguery, without populism, without manipulation; support for commercial and financial sanctions, persecution of the great oligarchs, welcoming the population, to be active agents of solidarity. Everything is necessary to help a people who defend themselves as they can, and who do so with great honor and unity. That is why we reconfirm our position in our amendment today, and we will do so whenever and when this debate from Ukraine is brought to this Parliament. At a time when we were beginning to emerge from the pandemic, Russia's investment in Ukraine has completely disrupted our scenario. And in the face of this complex scenario, we need institutions in action - such as the Basque Government - a united Europe and a stronger European project. A Europe with freedoms and rights, a democratic, free and prosperous Europe in the face of the barbarity of an invader. Built from bottom to top, from respect for cultural diversity and the political will of communities. Unfortunately, by defending this project we will suffer consequences, we suffer the consequences. As I said before, we've had 36 days of darkness, deaths, pain, exodus. Human drama is the first, and that is why all initial efforts have been in the form of solidarity. It is up to us to reach out, and I sincerely believe that both Basque institutions and society are responding in an exemplary way. Today, more than 4 million Ukrainians have fled the war. We are living in a humanitarian emergency situation that we never imagined. They and they deserve a dignified welcome. Euskadi has the resources and has all the devices ready. We have a contingency plan for the reception of displaced persons. We are the only autonomous community that has it, not even the state. And this government is going for the second. And our amendment in one of those points calls for precisely that: the mechanisms of reception and assistance should be strengthened, because everything will be little to alleviate this humanitarian drama. And that's our urgency. Personak drunks izan say the goure politiqueken erdigunean. Mr. Casanova, in your interference, you expressed in the interpelationship of Mr. President that you were the only person responsible for Podemos and your team, but apart from your care, they are actions, and we and this government are the policy that makes people to the centre, and so we've done our party in our 25 years' career. Everyone, reason, reason, can't say the same. But in addition to the people, the humanitarian consequences, a long month since the Russian invasion leaves us an economy touched. They shoot the... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...that they can't say. But in addition to the people, the humanitarian consequences, a long month since the Russian invasion leaves us an economy touched. Prices of raw materials, costs of production, energy crisis, unstable financial markets are being fired. This is demonstrated by the recent revision of the growth forecasts for the Basque economy, which aside from the alarmist terms of crisis, we are talking about a 4,5 % decrease in the unemployment rate of 9.5 % and the creation of 16,600 jobs in 2022. It is the cost that is leaving us this unacceptable aggression by Putin. A very convulsive situation that is already putting families and businesses in difficulty. And to that end, we can only respond in the form of measures to cushion these effects. We are faced with a great challenge that we will come out of and that we will know how to get out, among other things, by the decision and urgency in the answers that our Basque institutions are giving, with measures that have been under way for weeks. New sources of financing, the new credit line and the financing of the Basque Institute of Finance at 50% with financial institutions. Taxation without general tax rebates, but with specific measures for a specific purpose, such as those announced by the outlaws. One hundred and sixty-five million euros for the deferral of tax payments, exemption from the split payment, the increase in the amount of countervailable expenses. Energy with short-, medium- and long-term energy projects. On the one hand, with measures or calling for measures to curb the price of energy, as from our group, the decoupling of the cost of gas to the price of electricity, and for that our debates in Congress and in Europe, but on the other hand, without forgetting measures more in the medium term, which are the objectives, 2050, net emissions, zero. And to do this, we need to change the production system and bet heavily on renewables. For this transition are all the programmes promoted by the EVE, 150 million euros. Euskadi has decided as a country not to produce gas, energy or nuclear energy, but we do consume them from Algeria and France. I think we're tremendously dependent on the energy that comes from outside. But nobody here wants to have windmills, solar plates, or industrial waste recovery facilities that we need so much. But we cannot talk about a circular economy without putting it into practice. We're a power in wind industries. We must also be in our realistic contribution to supplying ourselves with that energy. In the budgets the means were also established, which are useful to face this serious situation, and which are not, in the course of February 24th, were in the budget. 530 million pymes from the Eco development department, social support, 41 million and a half; myrgetic poverty as well, from the arrival of a family of 900 every year, from 2500 euros per year, a contract signed with the Red Cross to help pay for gas, electricity, and water billings. The budgets also took place with EH, the agreement that predicted social support. Therefore, social and economic measures to sustain the activity, but also a strategic investment plan, EUR 530 million, to continue the investment and economic transformation bet. Actions are therefore under way. I do believe, Mr Casanova, that these facts can be defined as an immobile government. Actions, moreover, contrasted and coordinated: meetings with clusters, as was also done when Brexit occurred; 25 February, far-reaching contrasts with major industrial sectors; 3 March, meeting of the Industrial Council Observatory with officials of Eko garapena and BTI; in March, the aforementioned new measures of the Governing Council; 16 March, meetings with representatives of the first sector and constitution of the Food Chain Observatory; 17 March, meeting with infrastructure and logistics sector. Recently, the last 25, the meeting of the (?)OCI, observing the situation, sector by sector, evaluating and proposing actions for each problem. Today, a new follow-up meeting of the contingency plan, to approve a new plan and making as yet, a day-to-day follow-up of the situation. And it's not a new way of acting. We already did, and this government already did it when we were hit by the pandemic. For this reason, Mr Casanova, I sincerely believe that we cannot dismiss a government from sectarianism with all these actions, contrasted and coordinated actions. In addition, there is little sectarian government, as it is a coalition government, and in the last four years it has agreed budgets with all the groups in this House. You will define me if this with these actions and these facts you can define as sectarian. Therefore, as I said, a government in action from the zero minute, with measures in place for weeks, and with others, and that is our amendment, which is intended to be shared with all political groups. War imposes on all of us the obligation to agree, to work consensus and to strengthen the welfare state. And I believe, sincerely, our group believes that this is the way and not the way of division, that it only weakens us and I suppose it will please very few. Coordinated responses and unity, because peace is worth it. We must build between everyone and everyone. And in this regard, we applaud and believe very well the Lehendakari's decision to meet with all the groups and share the proposals. I also take the floor to Mr Iturgaiz, who said that they were open to consensus on all kinds of initiatives, because it is his responsibility. Also Mrs Gorrotxategi, who read in an interview on Monday that they were willing to agree on the content and the situation, and today Mr Soto, with that pact that you commented on. I sincerely do not see a better opportunity for consensus, and therefore we encourage you to value our amendment, which seeks to encourage the Basque Government to strengthen social, humanitarian and economic protection measures and investment projects with a vision for the future. Measure the latter, which I do not think is unacceptable to Euskal Herria Bildu, as it meets Mr Otegi's definition of structural and non-palliative therapy these days. So I think it's the way to the agreement and the right time. I'm just going on for the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. It's your turn, Mrs Martínnez, Miss Mistto-Vox. [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u9	A andreak: Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Five weeks after the start of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the consequences this confrontation is having on our productive structure and on family economies are dramatic. We are facing an unprecedented humanitarian, social, economic and health crisis. That 24th February began a criminal war sponsored by Vladimir Putin, and a nightmare for millions of Ukraine, which from night to morning, like all its truncated life. It has been five long weeks that we have seen from this part of the world with our hearts shrinking. Never comparable to those who are living it in the first person, but in any case, we sympathize with a people who never deserved this fate. And as I said at the beginning, five weeks later, the drama has reached our country and our Autonomous Community. Day by day we rise with new historical rises in the prices of light, gas, fuels and shopping basket. Industries that are forced to stop their activity, families against the ropes for not being able to face the payment of invoices, business closure. From the Basque Department of Labour, for days they have been preparing to receive a cascade of employment regulation files, a stock of death for many companies that have not yet recovered from the pandemic crisis. And in many cases these ERTEs will be a moratorium on the competition for creditors. Five weeks. It's been five weeks, and what have we done? What firm steps has this Government taken to cushion the economic and social consequences of the Ukrainian crisis? Only one, the inaction that has called for families and workers to continue to become poorer. To camouflage it, given the imminence of this debate and at the initiative of the outside parliaments, the Government hastily advanced an inter-institutional strategic investment plan two days ago. A plan that is nothing other than future projects already contemplated in Euskadi Next, but that will not cut the bleeding of layoffs or heal the economy of families in the short term. On the street, mobilizations are taking place against the rise in the prices of electricity, petrol and basic supplies. Mobilizations that have also united all Spaniards and all Basques. Farmers, farmers, hunters, transporters, steel workers, car workers, self-employed, housewives; we have not seen class unions in these mobilizations. But make no mistake, far from what has been treacherously attempted to move from the Sánchez Social-Communist Government, it has not been Vox who has been behind these mobilizations. It was not Vox who encouraged the transporters to denounce the unsustainable situation. As the ideologists of street riots, incendiary social protests and squabbles bother, they pay them with their own currency. The street and it speaks and reveals itself. These are times of uncertainty. That is why more than ever, measures are needed to benefit the Spaniards and the Basques. Measures that go beyond the bluff announced by the Government of Spain. Real and feasible commitments for all Basques. Of course, also for the vulnerable. But without forgetting that this energy crisis affects us all and each of the Basques. We've all been through this crisis. Desperation has brought thousands and thousands of citizens to the streets. It is their way of telling politicians that the passivity of their rulers is choking them. These are the real concerns that governments and political representatives have to work for. And I understand that that is the purpose for which a full monograph has been convened in this House for next week, is it not? Let us go on to say that in Vox we are clear that extraordinary measures are urgently needed to put an end to this unprecedented social and economic crisis, which is bringing thousands of families and businesses to ruin. However, we regret the opportunism of the parties that are bringing these two motions to this House today. What is the point of discussing these proposals today? Are you going to propose the same thing in a week's time in the full monograph? Frankly, for the sake of consistency in respect for those we represent, they should have withdrawn initiatives and jointly discussed a package of extraordinary and urgent measures in the appropriate forum in the next full monograph. Nevertheless, we consider it necessary to make some clarifications. The war in Ukraine is not the main cause of the emergency we are going through - although of course it has aggravated it - but the management of the central Government. The Government of Spain, represented here by PSOE and Elkarrekin Podemos and supported by Bildu and PNV, has acted against the interests of the Spanish. It is curious that We can speak today of establishing social shields, when it has been shown that it has failed dramatically, because from false premises. They have not only not lowered taxes, but have continued to raise them. They have continued to drown families and businesses in order to maintain the pace of political and ideological spending with which to feed their (...). The last, the 20 billion for feminist policies. Families that depend on industries based in the Basque Country, and that have been forced to interrupt their activity due to the lack of supplies, raw materials and components that do not arrive; and production processes that increase due to the high cost of energy. Timely stoppages in broad sectors of the activity that aims to become permanent. In fact, ten days ago the Association of Alavesas Companies warned that 29% of the companies in this territory will have problems in the short term due to the difficulty of supplies, to the point of having to stop production. That is in the case of those companies that collected material. The least predictable, 38%, couldn't stand it that much. Far from being an exclusive problem of the Alavesa industry, the evil spreads through Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. In Vox we are clear, nothing can be expected of a Spanish government that has shown too many times that it is not reliable, that it remains preoccupied with maintaining its status based on the taxes of families and businesses. The Basque Government is now aware that this war has caused an unstoppable chain effect if no action is taken. The outside parliaments were the first to agree on measures to respond to what Mr Lehendakari himself calls the war economy. Welcome be that help, but it will only be a temporary relief, and also not for everyone. We are talking about whole families that little or nothing, they are going to drag, for example, a three-month deficit in the payment of taxes. Short-term measures are not enough, structural measures are needed. It is not enough to delay the payment of taxes, it is necessary a... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... taxes. Short-term measures are not enough, structural measures are needed. It is not enough to delay the payment of taxes, a tax reform, or a tax reduction in this case, or an exemption from payment is necessary. Delaying the payment of taxes is just putting a stroke on a wound that will continue to bleed and that, moreover, will not be seen in plain sight, but will continue in it. In the next plenary we have an opportunity to agree on measures to help alleviate the serious social and economic emergency facing the Basques. They'll find us there. Vox will be there with realistic proposals to alleviate the rise in the cost of energy, fuels and raw materials or food, but not just for a few, but for all Basques. In this matter we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no greys; it is either black or white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u10	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I saw the agenda for today's debate on the other day, I thought: a monographic debate has just been convened on this very issue and I understand that the proposing groups are going to withdraw it from the agenda so that we can all give ourselves time, discuss a number of proposals and present them and discuss them more seriously and, above all, calmly in the monographic plenary. But it hasn't finally been like that. What we have is that there is full monographic convoked one day, one Friday. The previous Monday, Mr Lehendakari called on the leaders of the other political forces to reach consensus, in order to try to establish channels of communication in order to be able to reach certain agreements. But today the proposing groups have endeavoured to bring this debate to the House, which certainly does not seem to be bringing too much here, precisely because it is a time when speeches are right, but it is already a time to act and it is a time to reach certain agreements and to act on it. And for that it is necessary to do so at the hands of governments. Mr Soto and Mr Casanova have brought us some speeches, which is fine, about neoliberalism as the culprit of all the evils that society has or the lack of regulation, which is somewhat the same. There are other groups that have referred, in fact, started with the war of Ukraine, the invasion of Ukraine, which, in fact, aggravates an already existing problem, but we were already heading towards that situation. Some groups have been warning, warning and reaching out to carry out reforms and take preventive measures; above all, to cushion the consequences of this that has come upon us and that many international economic analysts have already advanced. The two proposals, the two initiatives put forward by the groups, one of which refers to the need to spend more, simply to increase public spending without making reforms; and another, where the most productive sector must be squeezed, in order to precisely collect more also and spend more, I insist, without making reform. That is why we will vote against these two initiatives. We agree that decisions must be taken. And we agree, and that is why we extend our hand to the groups of the Government and to Mr Lehendakari to speak and to try to reach certain consensuses, even if they are minimal. I am not going to use the time of this intervention - which rather pretends to be an explanation of vote - which I could do, to try to criticize the inexplicable slowness of the Spanish Government in making decisions; or to bring together the autonomous presidents, to tell them one thing and then not to do so; or to criticize also legitimately now the Basque Government, because certain decisions could also have been taken earlier; or I am not going to use it to criticize certain parties that are part of the Spanish Government and that then come here to almost ask the Spanish Government to do certain things when they are there; or parties that take responsibility when what they do is also agree with the Basque Government on budgets that is the basic instrument, as we know, of government and management. I think we all have to admit our share of responsibility in the situation we are in. That is why I, and from our group, have called on your ladies and gentlemen to discuss seriously and with a high level of view the measures and reforms that society needs, where it touches on this, which is in the full monograph that is to be held next week, after the groups have had the opportunity to talk with the president of our autonomous community, with Mr Lehendakari, about the measures that we can take in our field. Because no one here escapes that the measures that are taken in an uncoordinated way without, in our case with the Chambers, but also with the Government of Spain, even with the European authorities, these measures are not going to do any good. Measures must be taken, but reforms must also be promoted. If we only put patches now through short-term subsidies, because of the economic situation we have, and whose description, ladies and gentlemen, saves them, we will solve absolutely nothing and we will hardly delay the inevitable. Our President, Mr Iturgaiz, will come to Mr Lehendakari's call to detail the measures that we believe are indispensable. And we keep our hand open to the groups of the Government and to the groups that support it, to engage in a constructive dialogue, with a view to finding solutions or at least reaching some perhaps basic consensus. That is why we shall abstain from the proposal for the amendment to the whole of which the groups of the Government have tabled, waiting and giving an opportunity to dialogue between political forces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u12	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The answer turns, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gordillo, very briefly, I am not going to criticize, but I am going to do a little bit the same. That is to say, I think that the fact that he is not going to mention certain parliamentary groups to criticize us, but then, in turn, he is going to say certain words of cover because it is a bit of a trap for the lonely. I do believe that the only thing that is being said here by certain parliamentary groups is that we have to spend or, if necessary, that we have to shudder more... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... traps the loner. I do believe that the only thing that is being said here by certain parliamentary groups is that we have to spend, or, if necessary, we have to shudder more, because basically it is the line of argument of their political thinking in economic terms. And it is that we must avoid all the tax burden and fiscal pressure on citizens and businesses, and in turn, try to reduce spending. And you have summed it up very well, we believe that these formulas have of course already been shown to be in no way positive for the citizenry. On the other hand, I am also not going to spend too much time on Mrs Martínez because the fact that we talk about the 20 billion on equal terms denotes her lack of knowledge of economic policy, because she is practically suggesting that the Ministry of Equality, which has 500 million budgets per year, has a budget four times that of Education, which is 4.5 billion for this year. This is like when Catalonia's candidate from Vox proposed that Catalonia's budget had 40 million euros in budget; that is, good because he has no idea what they say loose certain pearls that are nothing but bubbles here in the rostrum. To tell you that the 20 billion corresponds to a strategic plan until 2025, ranging from benefits for reconciliation to schools from zero to three years and the free and universalization of these infrastructures and services. And so, finally, let him be informed before coming here to say certain things. Then, with regard to the need for a plan, for us to address this turning point to which the pandemic has led us, as well as the financial crisis ten years ago, as the current energy crisis. We do believe that it is important to reflect beforehand on how we have reached this point. And in my previous speech I said this, we believe that the fact that we have reached this time of energy dependence on the outside corresponds to a lack of compliance with certain duties by the Basque Government and also by the Government of the State over decades with regard to its commitment to gas, its commitment to gas. Finally, even a public company has been set up here to promote hydrocarbons in our country, which is that. There has therefore been a clear bet in recent decades on gas and not on the energy transition linked to renewables. And now fast and running it is necessary to make that transition, and to do so it is necessary to make the implementation of these infrastructures more flexible. And then we are asked of the rest of the parliamentary groups, that man, that we make it easier for certain private investments to enter what is now limited, we delay the territorial sectoral plans or the renewable plans because it is necessary to move as quickly as possible. We believe that this is not the formula, and we believe that it is necessary to recognize that something has been done wrong, that self-congratulation and is no longer the way. We believe that it is necessary to assume on the part of the Basque Government that not all the duties have been done with regard to the energy transition, and that with regard to what was a paradigm that was austerity brought us into what it brought us and that the ability we had to deal with the pandemic has been the result of policies that were agreed, it is true that not only in the Basque framework, but also at the state level and at the European level, and that this also led us to what led us. And it is necessary to make this preliminary reflection to address what initiatives and resolutions we can agree on, what are the prescriptions to be able to emerge from those consensuses that have brought us to today; that is to say, to the lack of energy transition and to a policy of austerity of expenditure containment and tax reduction. We have to assume that these are not the premises for formulating a different, more dignified, more redistributive and more social model. And that is where our parliamentary group is going to address all its proposals and resolutions in next week's monograph plenary, and in a way we had also reflected in part in the text we were proposing as a motion today. And so we do, as I said, and in conclusion, in my initial speech, call for a pact on the part of all the parliamentary groups both within and outside the framework of the full monograph, for a comprehensive agreement between the parliamentary groups with a view to formulating how this energy crisis emerges. On the other hand, we also believe that there is a need for an income pact that also addresses a reflection on taxation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u14	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u15	gentlemen: Good morning again. Today marks the 85th anniversary of the bombing of Durango, in which approximately 300 people died. Days later, the famous bombing of Gernika would take place. And that forces us, it reminds us, to call on Basques and Basques to be tremendously supportive of the people in Ukraine who are suffering from these bombings, these (?) massacres with people who are running away or under bombs. Even with the soldiers who face up, who differ for the country they serve, but who look like they're all poor, carnage from the canyon of other wars. You, Mrs Berrojalbiz, have made a very harsh description of the situation, on which I have to tell you that with most of the assessments I agree, you can tell us some semantic issue, but also openly tell you that I agree, I would like to hear from your party when NATO attacked Libya, Iraq or Serbia the same qualifications I did not hear. You mentioned that it has been 36 days since you started the war, 40 days will have passed next Monday when the lehendakari meets for the first time with opposition groups. 40 days. If that's not an analog government, if that's not having a cement belt, and if that's not going late, let God come down and see him. You are talking about well-coordinated and rapid measures and at all levels, well-coordinated. I'll give you two examples. The Councillor, spokesman for the Government, before yesterday answered the question of whether there would be new measures, he replied that not in the morning, a few hours later a press conference was announced at which the Government and the Members of Parliament were to announce new measures. Coordination. Then we'll talk about those... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... in the morning. A few hours later a press conference was announced at which the Government and the deputies were to announce new measures. Coordination. Then we'll talk about those measures. Mr Andueza, yesterday he was asked or told that, well, the Basque Government had been criticized for the delay of the central government in taking action, and he said: "Well, then let us know Tapia what measures it has taken". Well, that's where we're in coordination and speed. And let's go to the measurements, at least, not all of them, to the star measurements that you mentioned. Yesterday's. Well, yesterday's a little unqualified. And they want to take people's hair and rub the fake news to pretend to take out of a drawer measures that have been prepared for months and say they are a response to the war in Ukraine. That they're gonna help? Of course. As the whole budget is going to help, everything that drives the economy is going to help. But, of course, they are neither extraordinary measures nor specifically aimed at compensating for the effects of the war in Ukraine. Please, let's be serious. 10 million aid to enterprises in loans. Good. Good. 10 million. ICO 10,000 in the state, 10,000; 1,000 times more, 1,000 times more. That's the measure. Is that the league you want to play in, 1,000 times less than the central government in corporate credit? And the aid from the Member States, 165 million, of which 160 are tax deferrals and fractions, which are not really an investment, but, in any case, an facility for businesses, which we applaud, but which, of course, is not an extra contribution. 5 million is what you put on the table. 5 million for the primary sector, which is one of the most affected by rising oil prices and breakdowns in distribution chains, etc. Those are his star measurements. And its approach today, which we cannot accept because the first point is a search for dissent, the second point contains interesting things and the end is to put into value what we have just described, I believe that, as fake news, it is to try to collate as aid for the war of Ukraine what are projects that come in advance. Y sobre la methodology. Mr. Gordillo has also asked why today the motion can be monographicdic in a week (a night? .). Our team pushed both of them: the monographic, which we direct; and the motion to-day, so do we. because we thought the dispute might be divided into two parts, on the one hand round the pattern of government, and on the other side round the councils. And we think either they are both substantial and important, and that they needed different frames for discussion. What we asked for today was very simple, and I asked you and all the other members of the Chamber why they said no. We asked for an integral plan to do any political operating plan, and we demanded it to give transparency to a mechanism of that plan. Why are you standing against it? And we were also asking for a changeable perspective from contact, and it would not be economic, but economic, predictive concept, because we believe that what is currently to be transmitted to people is this: security, protection, and collective effort to protect all the members of this society. I don't have to explain why we're going to vote or abstain from it, but I think it's very difficult to vote against what EH Collect proposes today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u16	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u17	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Martínez, your group is proposing a tax reduction, and that is your tax reform, but, on the other hand, it is calling for more and more and more aid, and not just short-term, but structural. Is this what you think is viable, sustainable? Don't you think it's the square of the circle? Of course, this is not a realistic proposal. And I'm really telling you with all my love. However, the Spanish Government has made a realistic proposal. It has put forward a plan of shock response to the war with more than EUR 16 billion, which includes five axes of aid and eight clear, concrete, viable and, I insist, realistic objectives. Measures to assist families, workers, displaced persons, humanitarian aid, to support the economic and business fabric, transport, cybersecurity and energy measures. Mr Casanova, I remind you that we have a budget that your group has supported. A budget that, as I said before, includes economic incorporations from European funding, which is the most expansive known to date, that we are lucky enough to be able to maximize public investment and use all available resources thanks to this flexibility of spending rules, at least in this 2022 exercise, and that addresses the exit of the pandemic from a transformative perspective. And that is precisely that framework, which has made it possible to reactivate and strengthen support measures in an agile way, and also in a temporary, cyclical way, logically, to alleviate as much as possible the consequences of the conflict. Thus, it cannot be denied that there has been a reaction from the Government. The Government has reacted and implemented from the outset the measures, the first economic and social measures. Another thing is that we must continue to work, and that we must also do so with the greatest possible consensus. That is why I again appeal in this House to unity, unity and the ability to respond to the measures we must work to, of course, mitigate as much as possible the impact of this disastrous war. That is why I trust in the monographic session next Friday, where the different groups, in fact, can propose the resolutions and reach the highest degree of consensus. And, in that sense, and in conclusion, I would like to thank the tone of the intervention of the Basque People-Citizens Group and its readiness, of course, to work on these terms and to reach the greatest possible consensus. So eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Casanova jauna, harassed itxi naukazu. Look, I'm gonna tell you something. The parliamentary groups make a conscious effort to come down to this rostrum for not appreciating the ethical ground of... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] Sir, I'm surprised. Look, I'm gonna tell you something. Parliamentary groups make a conscious effort to get down to this rostrum by not appreciating the ethical soil of certain political parties, because there are huge elephants here that we don't mention, okay? But you tell me that there are only semantic differences in our first point and that we are the ones who seek dissent... Because it is curious that I make an allegation in defense of the Ukrainian people and you put yourself on the defensive; it gives me that we have deeper differences than the purely semantic ones. And I'm not going to go on there, because we're going, and we want to find more consensus. Because we are in a very complex crisis, and I am not going that way because I think it is time to seek consensus. Because in the face of extraordinary situations I think we have to take extraordinary, rapid and shared actions, which is what we are here today and what we will be doing next week, at our different meetings. With proposals, with proposals from different political groups, ours, all the groups that we make up this House, and in a positive and constructive tone. Without making any noise, which I believe is also being sought today by bringing several identical initiatives, including in the title, Mr Casanova, to this Parliament, when we have - as I said - a monograph proposed by you, and when you know that this Government is in action and in direct contact with all the actors concerned. I have already described it in my first speech, both the actions and the coordinated and consensual work that derives from this government action. A government and a parliamentary group, as I said, open and flexible. Flexibility which, precisely, Mr Casanova, has not shown Euskal Herria Bildu with his motion; yesterday we commented on in his approaches to the motion in which he asked for certain issues that were immobile. Because what you raise today in your motion is to make a plan. A plan of which you are - of course - a part. I remember Mr. Otero, when he was telling us, "You are the kings of the plans, and the execution, already, for another day." Don't you? But it is now Euskal Herria Bildu who is asking for another plan, which would further delay the actions to be taken on this issue which requires urgent action. Wasn't it, besides...? I read Mr Martín Garitano the other day, who as a deputy general, resigned – and he said so, he renounced – to draw up anti-crisis plans because they serve no purpose. Our group believes that it is time for action, with strategic plans, not only with economic and social measures put in place but also with strategic investment plans, such as the one announced yesterday by the Lehendakari and the deputies-general, to transform the country in the medium-long term, without putting forward measures imitating other policies or shock plans presented in other territories, because it is time to develop measures adapted to the real needs and adapted to our competences which, I believe, is the time to follow this path of listening, collaboration, construction and solidarity. A listening between institutions, with actors and actors involved in the third sector, associations, clusters, industry, without it being a drama that Euskal Herria Bildu is not at the heart of that decision. Because, moreover, it is not incompatible with us sharing reflections, making contributions and collaborating. But, Mr Casanova, to be a relevant political actor, I believe - in my opinion - that neither observatories nor commissions such as the one requested last week need be included, nor do we need to take the flag of plans. I believe that the policies of the Government can be conditioned, ideas, proposals can be shared, we can work together, we can do something else without being on the Bureau of the Government, which is for that reason the lehendakari, the councillors and all the Basque Government and all the Basque institutions, ruling this country. If we want to limit the consequences of this war, if we want our companies and our society to suffer no more, we must hold all our shoulders to move forward with this plan of measures as soon as possible. We have criticized the slowness of the Spanish Government; we have said so, it has been late. And we don't like everything, it's true, but our group will act with responsibility, dialogue, consensus, collaboration. As I said, from the responsibility that demands this moment. That is why, too, I would like to ask you – and that I have seen today the hand extended to the majority, and I hope that all the political groups – that in the round of talks that we are going to hold next week with Mr Lehendakari, with all the formations, that you too, as you said, are responsible, work rigorously, and come in a spirit of consensus and collaboration as we have just seen today. As I said, they have already expressed their will, and from here thank you for your extended hand: unity without particular disputes. We will also have the opportunity in the full monograph of next week to contrast our proposals and to look for a common denominator, which I am sure there is. Both the lehendakari and the group I represent will be able to act flexibly, with the utmost will. Let us defend the hostilities and go together in the same direction, because all the formations - I hope we want - want the same thing: to overcome this situation of uncertainty as best as possible and as soon as possible, and to bring peace back to the people of Ukraine. We want the path of dialogue between Russia and Ukraine to succeed in an agreement that will put an end to these hostilities. And, to finish, let's think what brings us together. Let us suppose that millions of people are escaping from a country in which there is war, from a country destroyed by a dictator who has a passion for power. Let's all think we want peace and bombardation. It's time to work together because the key is in unity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u21	...who divide us, if we enter into political wars and become weak with interests that have nothing to do with peace. We'll be able to counterpoise the pressure of the situation next week and the consequences of this invasion with the presidents.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u23	for harmony... Yes, with an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Martíne? He doesn't... Gordillo? [[Pause]] [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] [[Pause]] ...after discussion, we'll put the original text of Mr. Soto Rodríguez's motion to the vote. We can vote. It's not working? Well, now it's no use. We'll tell the vote as bullets, but, well, what its meaning is at least. And then we'll see what happens to him. Please, the results. After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 27; the opposites are 45; abstations, 0; white, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u25	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the original text of Mr. Casanova Alonso. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; supporters 21; oppositions, 46; Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u26	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists, the Eucan patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 40; the opponents are 0; abstainments, 33; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u27	Integer correction has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Modia, the popular group of Carmelo Barrio Barroja, the member of the Ciudadans, the state of the member of the Estatrican Politics. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Barri, representing the popular group, Ciudados vascos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u28	Thank you. Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. This motion is a consequence of the question I made to Mrs Tapia two weeks ago, and it speaks of something that we can all see and recognize. The primary sector is also going through difficult times and problems are indeed multiplying in the field. The question I asked Mrs Tapia two weeks ago sought to address the complicated situation that rural people are facing today, the people working in the countryside because of the consequences of an economic crisis that the invasion of Ukraine has aggravated in relation to many issues relating to energy prices or supplies, agri-farming supplies, transport, etc., well, as well as other sectors, but very specifically also to the primary sector, the agro-farming sector, of food in particular. And, of course, it is still necessary to seek solutions to maintain this activity, to ensure food supply and production. That is why we are concerned in this Parliament, that is why we have also brought this motion which we see as having its fruits in relation to the compromise that has been signed by the amending groups, which, well, which is an interesting compromise and which says things. We wanted to go a little further on the review of the common agricultural policy in a more effective way. But, well, in any case, I do believe that it is true that what must be urged is that administrations continue to seek formulas and take action. It was necessary, and necessary, to seek solutions to maintain this activity, to ensure food supply and production. It is essential, of course we all talk about the food chain, we all talk about food production. And, in that sense, it is something about what needs to be done at this time of crisis, as well as strategically. Exceptional measures are needed to compensate farmers and livestock farmers today. Exceptional measures, because they cannot be the current measures, must be exceptional measures because of those problems that we have already identified. We were also talking about the amendment of the announced new CAP and the Spanish strategic plan in relation to it. And while I was talking to the Counsellor the other day about the need to review those instruments, she was also referring in some way to the need to make some of those demands more flexible; it is clear that they have to be so, it cannot work on the black-to-white keys that today have the Spanish strategic plan or the CAP or the European Green Pact. I mean, they have to be checked somehow, temporarily for sure, but they have to be checked... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... the CAP or the European Green Pact. I mean, they have to be checked somehow, temporarily surely, but they have to be checked. And in addition to what the compromise amendment you have signed itself says, it has to be so. Because there are exceptional measures which are also called for in that compromise amendment, and which must of course be reflected in the timely, eventual, temporary or transitional revision of those European documents in relation to the primary sector. The Autonomous Communities and the agro-farming professional sector are also putting on the table the need to take immediate measures to deal with this crisis. Sectoral organizations, as we all see, are saying, and autonomous communities, agricultural and rural development departments of many autonomous communities are saying, with the sector, that three-pronged measures are needed. Measures to prioritize food production and ensure food availability and sufficiency. That's something basic, it's something essential. And in that sense and to guarantee all that, measures to increase income, to increase production at this time. And also measures to reduce costs, those costs that are wasting the activity of many farms and that are leading some to the edge of closure, and that cannot be that. It can't be, especially in these moments of need. Measures required by professional organizations, as I said, in order to avoid such serious losses, such closure of farms, with a risk of rural unemployment in this case, or risks in the food chain; which is, as everyone knows, serious. That is why we have brought this question and this motion, so that this Parliament will continue to be concerned; continue to urge the competent and timely administrations to take action in favour of the primary sector, and that these measures are true and urgent. And well, that is also reflected in the compromise amendment that you have signed. Last March 20th, Sunday, under the slogan "20 M together by the countryside", we saw that the rural world went out on the street to highlight those difficult moments that it is going through. In this regard, it also calls for urgent aid to ensure the viability of agri-food activities, and to respect and demand that activities and people living in rural areas in this case, dedicated to agriculture and livestock farming, as they have greater support from public administrations. Well, we all saw that important demonstration, with important Basque presence also as we could see and through the media. This is a great mobilization, and to a large extent the consummation of a period of demands of the primary sector that has existed throughout Spain, already since the end of the nineteenth century. What happens is that these mobilizations that we have all seen, here too, are paralysed; from the different sectors, in each autonomous community, from different sectors in relation to mobilizations, protests, demands... with a requirement of measure. Well, that's what we have to keep working. And at this time, moreover, all this aggravated by the pandemic on the one hand, and then by the crisis and by the invasion of Ukraine on the other. It is true that these farms come from a very complex situation to maintain agricultural incomes - ahead of the pandemic as well. It is clear that the pandemic and the current situation of insecurity have aggravated the issues, but they are situations that were coming, complex situations that were coming from before. And that the scenario has actually worsened with rising production costs, as we said before, of electricity, feed, fertilizers, seeds, insufficient prices received, and imbalances between supply and demand. In an unsustainable event, a fact that has made many farms economically unsustainable. This is coupled with widespread high inflation, and that now after the invasion of Ukraine, a crisis scenario has been created that affects the entire agri-food system and the supply of the whole of the European Union. But it must also be said that it has also affected some countries more than others. The OECD points to Spain as the European Union's most dependent country, for example, on Ukrainian wheat. But also other products, such as sunflower oil, vegetable oil cakes, grain legumes; are important for this bilateral trade. And that of course we have to work, we have to think and we have to take action in relation to those supplies and to that agricultural reality in this case, and livestock, because it is part of livestock feeding. It is clear that in that regard we have wanted to table a motion. A clear motion, because the first part of the motion naturally, as it cannot otherwise be, sympathizes with the primary sector in these difficult times of crisis, lack of supplies and high costs; and urges the institutions, in this case the Basque institutions, to take the measures in agreement with the professional organizations of the sector, in order to avoid such closure of farms and livestock farms, and of course to support the sector at this serious and complicated time. And of course, the rest is to try that the Basque Government can also promote before the Central Government and the European Commission, as the appropriate measures to make aspects of the implementation of the CAP more flexible by 2022. We were also talking, as did the compromise amendment, about the amendment that was said by the groups supporting the Government, that food and feed should be avoided. And then, of course, we have to alter issues that come in the common agricultural policy. And it has to be more flexible with the use of beard surfaces. That is already said, it is widespread, especially in the absence of cereals, in the absence of oilseeds, as they are demonstrating. For it is necessary to use land that can be used eventually, or to... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... of cereals, the lack of oilseeds, as is being demonstrated. For it is necessary to use land that can be used eventually, or exceptionally also to produce, of course, these products. In this respect, too, it was necessary, but because it is necessary, that is to say, because if we are going to rule out some issues, it is necessary to amend the proposal for a strategic plan for the Spanish CAP, which was referred to the European Commission on 21 December. And, logically, to take measures of these characteristics, to use beard, to bring products and cereals from other parts of the world where it is not possible today, because we must take measures and we must also put it black on white so that they are also part of the European Union's rules, that is, that we believe that this revision must be carried out as a matter of urgency. We believe that the European Union should also be encouraged to support similar initiatives promoted by other Member States. They have already spoken in Italy or in other countries, in France, about the review of some issues related to the European Green Pact, and about the different strategies, the farm strategy at the table, the European Union's biodiversity strategy for 2030. There are already many farms and professional, agricultural and livestock organisations, which see that in 2030 some of the agro-ecological issues that need to be presented are very complicated, and that they will present many difficulties in this problem. Well, at least we have to think about these issues. We are also interested in the activation of the crisis reserve or the promotion of work with sectoral organizations to find new markets of origin that can guarantee the supply of food, and in particular for livestock farming, while avoiding the risk of food security in our country. It is quite clear that if there is no cereal, if there is no sunflower, if there is not to be brought, it must be brought from countries that have it, that produce it. At the moment, they do not meet the conditions that the European Union allows in countries of America, the American continent, Brazil, Argentina, even Canada and the United States, because they will have to bring that product, because it is necessary for the food chain. It is quite clear that some phytosanitary conditions, some issues... But there may have to be exceptions, and that has to be activated, of course, through the measures to be taken by the European Union, and of course they have to be driven by the Spanish administrations. Well, we were also talking about and referring to Act No. 16/2021, on the food chain, on the modification of the food chain in relation to the two electric powers. We have already talked about this on some other occasion in relation to subsidies on diesel, on fertilizers. Well, that's there, there's also talk these days in governments, of course, about these issues. And we were also talking about the application of the type... of Value Added Tax. Well, these are the issues that were part of it, they could have been many more. There are many more measures also on the table in relation to what some call the possibility of a contingency plan. Many more measures, in addition, many more measures have to do with even the fiscal aspect, i.e. in the outlying parliaments, in the general meetings, we will also have to talk about this issue, because it is very possible that it is good to understand tax formulas to support farmers and livestock farmers at the moment. But, in any case, that is the approach. I've seen... They distributed it very shortly before they started to intervene, the compromise amendment. It doesn't look bad to me, it seems pretty right to me. We were going a little further on the requirement for the revision of the CAP, with the revision of the Spanish strategic plan, the Green Pact, but why, because it will need to be revised, because it will be revised, in fact, because measures will be taken to require such revision. And in that sense, good, because we have, of course, tabled this motion on a constructive basis and trying to help and promote measures to support the agro-farming sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u29	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Housevary, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u30	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, I won't be able to explain the problems of the first sector, because they are well known, and Mr. Barrio, who has already settled his initiative in the context to try to face economic crisis, supply problems, and the situation of prices. It is evident that we are in a very serious situation, quite extraordinary, that the present economic system is turning upside down, and that, until recently, we are compelled to rethink the attitudes and politics which seemed indisputable. And agriculture isn't an exception, and they're somehow unstable. And this is what the multitude of Popular-Ciudados does to us: The Spanish Government doubts about the Stratal Farm and Nekaza new Contributed Politics which were introduced to the institutions of Europe. But, in our opinion, he does not question them from a proper point of view, and he does not resolve any solution to the problems which stifle the first sector of our community. It is evident that our first sector has certain characteristics distinct from other communities, and therefore EH Collect has always retained the claim of a proper strategic establishment, adapted to our wants, which would fulfil the principle of subsidy, recommended from Europe, and which would respect our jurisdictions. But it wasn't possible. The Spanish Government has proposed only one strategic plan, and although it distinguishes 20 different regions, it does not suit the proper needs of our first sector. And in our opinion, the initiative of the Popular-Ciudadans does not propose any proposals to improve the planning that is taken in this strategic plan. He does not plan on the definition of the active farmer, or the distribution system established by the Ministry, the contributions that are more suitable for our first sector. None of that. The motion before us calls into question the European Green Pact with the Farm Strategy to the Bureau and the... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...preferences that are more convenient. None of that. The motion before us calls into question the European Green Pact with the Farm Strategy to the Bureau and the European Union Biodiversity Strategy by 2030, with the excuse of the loss of productive potential in the agri-food sector, the profitability of producers and the risk to food sovereignty. In other words, it poses a setback in these policies, as if they were responsible for the evils of the sector, and we do not share that position. Indeed, some of these measures imposed by European agricultural policies must be made more flexible at the current juncture, in order to be able to respond efficiently to the shortage of raw materials and to the increase in inputs, but it must be something timely, temporary and highly valued, which does not make us lose sight of the path taken or of the objectives we seek. And, in fact, some of the measures proposed by the motion have already been put in place from Europe, and also from Madrid are being directed. Last week the measures planned by the European Union to help agriculture and livestock production were published. Among the measures, they highlighted the €500 million package of €60.4 to which Spain refers the amendment submitted by the groups supporting the Government. It is also expected, on an exceptional basis, by 2022, that beard lands can be planted for the production of human or animal feed, increases in the amounts of advances for direct payments and rural development, temporary flexibilities for existing import requirements on animal feed, control of fertilizer prices, a temporary crisis framework allowing State aid for agriculture and livestock to compensate for the increase in the price of inputs. So PP-Ciudadans have already asked for certain points in motion. Therefore, we planned other measures which may affect the sector in our corrections, because, as we believe, they are not examining or offering any other attention to them at the moment. That's why once again, we'd propose to increase the means of watching the contracts and to enforce the law of the food chain as the first resort, and at the same time we'd like to ask Euko-Male to keep the productions up to date. We also asked him to perform an integral strategy with the Alddus and sector operators, to encourage local production and to ensure the supply of food, primary materials, and the reasonable prices of pents, and to repair the ruptures and problems that may be in the supply chains. In the same way we asked him to work together with the malcontents and the agencies of the sector, study his needs and his options, and get the settlements between the farmers and the cattle, the corn, the cereals, etc. As we see, cooperation, co-worker, and co-worker-there is, as we believe, the key. And, of course, this cooperation is indispensable for an integral plan that will gradually bring us closer to the independent nourishment. For EH Collect, it's a challenge of high intentions, but it's as necessary as it's difficult. We believe, indeed, that the present state of agriculture is apparent to us that the most elaborate and globally industrial models fail in any event. When they fail, we fail with them. We have found out how vulnerable we are, and it is plain that we must build solid, lasting, and self-conscious patterns. To this end, it is essential that the Government work side by side with the sector. A comprehensive plan is essential to define the needs to be met and to collect planning to make it possible through agreements with the sector and aid to ensure that compliance with them has been carried out under fair conditions for all parties. A commitment of mutual support. Let the sector know what is needed and work to contribute to this goal, but knowing that their work is recognized and paid for in conditions, and that this effort will have an impact not only on the improvement of the sector, but also on the improvement of the entire food system of the community. I don't know if any of those present will recall an appearance by the Mayor of Fontecha on the occasion of the Rural Development Act. This gentleman, president of the ADR of the Quadrilla de Añana, said, and I open quotes: "We have created in our area, in Añana, we have irrigation, we have investments in tractors, we have everything, but now they don't know what to plant, farmers don't know what to plant. I mean, we have a watering of milk and they're sowing cereal." That's what he was telling us. I believe that this shows how beneficial it would be to have a comprehensive planning of the needs that exist, so that farmers, farmers, the forestry sector, etc. know where their production is to be directed, knowing that it will be profitable and that the aid will be devoted to promoting and protecting it. This is our bet and we believe it is perfectly compatible with the Farm to Bureau or Biodiversity Strategy 2030 if there is close collaboration between the Administration and the sector, and proper planning, a stake for sustainable local production and for short distribution chains. These strategies also relate to another of our demands, as we asked the Basque Government to encourage the agro-ecological transition of the first sector, adapting to European regulations, in order to achieve greater autonomy in the production, processing and sale of food. We also believe that energy autonomy on farms is essential, and we therefore called on the Basque Government to boost photovoltaic installations on these farms by means of in-depth lost aid or loans at zero interest. With this type of facility they will be much more self-sufficient and therefore much stronger. Because, in our opinion, in the face of a crisis situation, we can take a step back and cling to agro-industrial models that we are trying to overcome, which we believe is what the People-Citizens Group is proposing; or we can take a step forward, analyze our weaknesses and our opportunities and reflect on new models that will make us more resilient, more sustainable and more self-sufficient in the future. And that's what we're trying to get today with our proposal: To go beyond immediate measures. We wanted to go beyond the measures that will leave us in the same situation to-morrow, to learn from this crisis and to strengthen us from this study of study, because we don't want to leave the way to permanent, but we want our first sector to be profitable, strong, and self-conscious. We want him to be able to provide us with this security of the food we need through his work. That's why it's essential that the authorities have close cooperation with the sector. It is essential to appeal to the independence of food and to the agrocological transitions by means of the shared projects and planning. And it is not a utopia; the present state carries us in this direction. And EH Collect is willing to help in that process. We'd like that to be the bet of the rest of the teams. It was not possible to step on that road today, because it is a default to answer the first major. However, we have tried to get a medium, and we have come to an agreement with groups supporting the government, and we are glad to have it... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... We have tried to get a middle course, and we have come to an agreement with groups supporting the government, and we are satisfied with the agreement we have obtained, but we are content to discuss either the middle term, or, sooner or later, the source of the nutriment which has left us out of the middle course. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u31	Thank you, Mrs. New House. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u32	President, ladies and gentlemen. For months, the economy has been negatively affected by the gradual rise in energy and fuel prices and their impact on product prices for production and consumption. The invasion of Ukraine by Russia has aggravated these problems and added new ones, such as the depletion of cereals for animal feed, such as the import of sunflower oil for the canning industry. In a period of economic recovery following the worst of the pandemic and in a period of revision of policies important to the future of the agricultural and livestock sector, with the new common agricultural policy and the evaluation of strategic plans, the war adds uncertainties and aggravates problems, problems that we would all like to know will be resolved soon, but that in the absence of this certainty it is clear that more measures must be taken than they have been taken and that this is being done in the European Union, Spain and the Basque Country. It is being done by preserving irrevocable strategic goals in which we are playing the future on a permanent basis. Objectives referenced in economic and social sustainability, climate change, energy transition, and the need to feed a growing population with a limited planet. There is agreement on the need to implement economic aid, to make commitments more flexible, to meet those who need it most urgently, and in the sector we are dealing with today, with the supply of feed, with the reduction of production costs, transport costs and other aspects of a productive and economic nature. To this end, the Council of Ministers, held on Tuesday 29th, approved, among many other measures, an economic package of EUR 430 million in specific measures for the agricultural and fisheries sectors. Thus, support to mitigate the impact on the primary sector, a strategic sector because of its importance in the supply of food in sufficient quality and quantity, amounts to EUR 193 million for agriculture and livestock, EUR 169 million for the milk sector and EUR 68 million for extractive and aquaculture fisheries. Direct aids and Community subsidies to be added to the reduction of 20 cents for three months in the price of diesel with an impact on the sector of 94 million, plus another 3 million for the exemption of the port rate for fresh fishing and the canon of use of hydraulic public goods for the facilities of continental agriculture for six months. There is therefore aid for producers of cow's milk, sheep and goat with a quantity per head and a head fork. There are direct aid for vessels and fishing companies to compensate above all for the increase in the price of fuel with quantities depending on its tonnage, Community aid from the Crisis Management Fund supplemented by the State of 64.5 million to increase them to the maximum permitted by the European Regulation, thus adding to the 64.5 million 128 plus, reaching a total of 193 in order to be able to cope with the increases in input prices. The fisheries sector will have an additional 50 million through the European Maritime Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture, also benefiting from the postponement of social security contributions for three months, and will be able to access credits from Dico and the State Agricultural Guarantee Society with the subsidies and guarantees established. The latest measures reflect the regulatory change that exempts farmers from the obligation to leave 5% of their crop areas in beard, and the diversification requirement is made more flexible. With them will mobilize more than 600,000 hectares declared as an area of ecological interest, and 2,160,000 hectares more to produce cereals and oilseeds, and improve the supply of these products in Spain. Measures in addition to other measures already taken in Spain and the European Union, such as temporary easing of the requirements for the import of maize from Argentina and Brazil, the general reduction of 20% in the net yield index of the IRPF in 2021, which benefits 918,000 people; the exemption of the IBI of a rustic nature in the 2022 year for farms that have suffered income losses of at least 30% compared to the average of the last three years, or 20% for areas with natural or specific limitations, the activation of private storage of pigmeat... There are also measures with transport aid agreed these days through social dialogue, because as important as producing is that the product leaves the farms and is marketed. Measures in addition to the food chain law, adopted three months ago, which introduces new rules in trade relations within the food chain for the benefit of primary producers, farmers and livestock farmers. Introducing the actual cost of production as a mandatory factor in the pricing of contracts. Progressing also in the transparency of commercial relations by establishing that those above EUR 1,000 are written and that they are in the official contract register. In addition, the Government of Spain continues to work on the energy prices on which it reduced VAT and production tax months ago. To all this must be added the fiscal measures of postponement, split payments, compensation of expenditure and direct aid that the parliaments are preparing and have announced, and the Interinstitutional Strategic Investment Plan for Euskadi, announced by the Lehendakari after the Council of Ministers on Tuesday, which is being presented to the parliamentary groups. In the compromise amendment there is a request to the Basque Government to complement itself in actions through dialogue... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... in the process of being presented to the parliamentary groups. In the compromise amendment there is a request to the Basque Government to complement actions through dialogue with the sector and with political groups. It is also proposed to strengthen the inspection for the enforcement of the food chain law and to keep up to date the costs of production, to the imposition of agro-ecological transitions, to subsidise energy generation facilities, to maintain some open and flexible measures in the implementation of the CAP, to speed up the allocation of the Crisis Fund activated by the European Commission by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Mr Barrio, I hope that in the debate and in the resolution you will find sufficient reasons, measures and proposals so that you and your group can also support the compromise that we have reached, which you welcomed positively, although you have not announced what the meaning of your vote would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u33	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Bar Barn... Mr. Tellegio, I'm sorry, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u34	... ma'am, thank you. And good morning to all. I recognise that I take this subject to discuss it with a certain nostalgia. Agriculture was my home for many years. And, as that old young lady song used to say, I'm going back to my home. Even if it's for a day, but I'm going back to the home that, now I think, I should never have left to look for other new homes, both because coming back to the old one it's hard for you to identify it because it's changed its decoration, the organization of furniture and even the tenants as well as because the new homes are always more uncomfortable than the original ones. But, well, on the subject, I recognize that it has cost me to get into a subject because everything is very different. And not only is it changed, an unjust invasion, as they are all, has caused a quake all over the world and in all the economic and social sectors that makes it more difficult if there is still recognition of what one left. It is true that agriculture is a sector in permanent crisis, at the same time it is the sector that supplies us with food, and therefore it is certainly the sector that is most involved from public policies not only in Europe but throughout the world. And in spite of everything, he can't get out of his permanent crisis. And now, in the absence of much, a war causes, in addition to death and injustice, an unbearable price increase, a lack of raw materials of complex substitution and so many other catastrophes. And after these minutes of nostalgia, let's get to the point, Mr. Barrio. Its proposal is not aware that the most urgent now is to put in place rapid and effective measures to alleviate the situation of farmers, emergency situation, as long as the rise in energy and transport prices is very high, the shortage of raw materials is overwhelming and, to close, the market does not assume the final increase in prices to the consumer of the products produced. While it is true that Ukraine's dependence on raw materials on Basque farmers is very low, while we rely mainly on France, the invasion of Ukraine has led to applicants from this country being diverted to the traditional markets of Basque farmers, which for a while impedes access to raw materials in traditional markets until the system is rebalanced. Just as an example, it takes 30,000 tons of maize each month to make feed in Euskadi. He claims that because of the competition of new customers we must look for, they must look for the Basque farmers, in Canada or in the United States; which, inevitably, makes the price rise not only because of demand, but also because of the rising price of the new balance between supply and demand. Well, you have presented us with a motion in which, in your Spanish fight, you speak only of the ministry as if you were solely responsible for everything, dressed up with something from the EU to put the common agricultural policy on its feet, proposing a revision of its fundamental axes. These, as you yourself point out, were approved for the new period of application just a year ago. And he said that there are circumstances that have changed the situation in an important way as Europe's barn has been invaded. But, as the Councilwoman told him in the inquiry, we cannot forget that we have come up with a strategic plan for the CAP that will reach at least 2027 and it is not to be ruled out that it should be extended. It contains clear and clear objectives of economic, social and environmental sustainability. Objectives which should be considered strategic, long-term and far-reaching and which should not be changed in the event of a serious economic situation. We must not change the strategic objectives of the CAP; they are basic, they form the ideology of the European Union and we must not give up on them. This does not allow the implementation of the CAP to be and should be made more flexible, even if the objectives have not been changed. And to that, no doubt, our group agrees. We have incorporated it and it is requested in the amendment. And we know that on that path it has begun to take steps at the European Council held a week ago. But the objectives, which are the result of a complex consensus between 27 EU Member States, can therefore be changed at a very long distance. I will not deny it, there are measures in which we can agree and which are already being studied, as would be the case with a more agile application of resources, to raise partial payments, which should also be implemented the flexibility of some controls or perhaps redefine the cause of force majeure, which has already been applied with the covid issue. We even understand that at this time of difficulty in accessing raw materials, the use of fertilizers is made more flexible, so that there is no shortage of cereals and feed for livestock. There are also other measures, such as the possibility of using beards for the planting of oilseeds and protein crops, which is important in order to increase the cultivation area in some way throughout Europe. In our case it is also not so important, it would be 1,200 hectares, which would not save us, and in any case, it is not the 1200 hectares that are the most productive we have. Livestock farmers don't shave the best hectares they've got. This matter, I insist, without being the most relevant, has its importance and we add it to our amendment. And we are sure that the European Council of Ministers will take it if it has not already taken it. But we're not going to bet on changing the goals. They are the constitution of the CAP. Also, on the other hand, that same Council of Ministers... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...has already taken it. But we are not going to bet on changing the objectives, they are the constitution of the CAP. Moreover, the same Council of Ministers has approved a crisis fund amounting to EUR 500 million for the CAP; for Spain, EUR 64.5 million could be doubled with own funds. And having more budget for agriculture will help accelerate the short-term reforms needed for our sector. And our amendment calls for the proportional part to Euskadi to be forwarded as soon as possible, and for the regulation for its orientation to take precedence over the livestock sector, which is in urgent need of aid to feed its production. I mean, what we're asking is to speed up the delivery of what's ours. We have talked about the EU and the Ministry, but it is that this country governs it in agricultural matters and with broad powers the Basque Government and the parliaments, which you obviously do not, and we do not. In view of this situation, we ask the Basque Government to meet with the agents of the sector and the parties, which is already underway both since the Lehendakari call and since the next monographic debate in this house, to implement all the aid that can and will be agreed within the framework of their competitive possibilities and respecting the European aid framework for the agricultural sector. And it turns out that at the same time as we tabled the amendment, the joint outlaws presented their exceptional aid plan. The institutions are going faster than Parliament, and that is very good; and that is that the Basque institutions have much to say, Mr Barrio, not only the Ministry which is the subject of your wishes. In case it were little, and even if you do not deal with it in your motion, I take the opportunity to give you a minute's publicity and tell you that the Basque Government is also planning to support the Basque fishing sector by means of aid. While it is a very affected sector, not only because of the increase in energy costs, but also because of a transport strike that prevented it from distributing its products for a long time. Finally, and while you are also referring to the subject in your motion, and considering that the summer season should be activating the irrigation facilities, in addition to waiting for the application of the aspect that our group incorporated in its day into the food chain law in the Congress of Deputies concerning the discrimination of the electricity tariff at the time of irrigation, we ask the Basque Government to give economic impetus to agricultural farms and communities of regents in order to install as many renewable energy generating structures as possible. In short, apart from knowing that the Basque administrations are acting diligently, and also urgently, we ask them what we already know to a large extent they are doing, such as developing a whole institutional effort to achieve flexibility in the implementation of the CAP, as well as working in coordination with the representatives of the sector to be aware of the changes that may occur in this scenario, which by calling it in some way, is not only liquid, but is solvent. In short, after exchanging ideas, we have come to a satisfactory compromise with EH Bildu - whom I really appreciate for the effort and sincere concern of the Basque agricultural sector - to ask the Basque Government to implement aid in all possible directions, to guide policies on agroecology and to diversify the sector in the future in order to reduce uncertainties, to intensify what is already being done, of course, the inspection of the food chain law, and to support a sustainable irrigation less dependent on electricity prices. Also to ask the EU to make the measures more flexible, not to change the objectives, and the Ministry to go ahead with the money authorised by the European Union. It is a demand in several institutional directorates responsible for different subjects involved in agricultural policy. And although we know that all this will not be able to alleviate the situation completely, it will help more when it comes from a broad parliamentary consensus. And as much as anyone says that we don't want to make pacts, this is an example that we make pacts. And it will help a lot more than just thinking about Spanish politics without really worrying about the Basque agricultural sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Barrio, with all the affection, a ghost travels through Europe, and it is not precisely communism, as my fellow banker and grouper, Mr Hernández, would like. The right at European level is in a tonic that is basically involutionist. Taking advantage of a crisis, in this case, arising from Russia's unilateral invasion of Ukraine, to request widespread tax reductions, not to comply with the requirements that the CAP establishes in relation to sustainability, and in turn also with regard to the promotion of nuclear or other energy supply formulas that are so unsustainable. That is to say, this initiative is nothing more than, in our view, mere propaganda, taking advantage of the discontent of the primary sector because of a crisis situation that has become triggered inflation and an increase in prices, both energy and other. And I imagine that this initiative that you have brought here, beyond the make-up of the first point where you refer specifically to Euskadi, everything else - as Mr Telleria has already said - concerns the state sphere. Therefore, I assume that this is something that you will have worked out at the state level to register at all levels at the autonomous level. I ask you why your party, your parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies, voted against the food chain law, which is precisely one of the fundamental elements that the agricultural sector... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... MEPs voted against the food chain law, which is precisely one of the fundamental elements that the agricultural sector has been demanding and continues to demand, in this case (?) compliance with the food chain law. And it is that, of course, the products it produces are not paid below the cost, worth redundancy. I do not understand very well what their position is when they come here to claim, or to claim themselves as protectors of the primary sector, when they then vote against a food chain law, which seeks what they seek. I do not know whether this has been explained to the different unions, whether at state level or at state level, to the three unions at state level in the primary sector. If they have explained it to those who you always say that, well, that it maintains a great dialogue with them, that it is the UAGA. We do not know if they have been able to explain their position against the food chain law. Then, on the other hand, they continue to maintain the position on this issue, which could also be translated into many other policies of an economic nature, which is direct aid yes, direct aid yes, in this case we have to enable lines of financing for those who do not... For those who are experiencing the worst, but who, under no circumstances, I say, comply with the food chain law, and therefore, large food distributors pay a fair price for their products. Let us remember here the initiative that was put forward at the time, and I also think that it was on the part of a fellow member of your parliamentary group, the problem that existed in relation to beetroots, because of the price below the cost that the Ebro sugar company demanded from them in the contracts. How was that solved?, with direct funding, not making the sugar plant pay what it would have to pay. So, we believe that the formula is that: to make certain distributors pay what they have to pay, and not below the cost. The solution to this is not simply to compensate indirectly through public resources, which I do not know where they come from, when you, in turn, raise widespread tax cuts. We believe that the proposal you have brought is a crusade to mutilate the new CAP. Only if you come out here and say: no, no, you have to make it more flexible in view of the situation, you have to make certain requirements more flexible, because if not, then we are going to influence or deepen the crisis in the sector." I doubt it and I am very sorry, with all due respect, but I doubt the good faith that your group has in this respect, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, I think it is to take advantage of the fact that... taking advantage of the circumstances precisely in order not to take charge of what you have never wanted to take over from the outset, which are all the environmental measures proposed by the new CAP. We, our parliamentary group, are concerned that we have not made enough progress over time with regard to food sovereignty, and in this regard, that just as we are dependent on energy, so we will be on feed, fertilizers, and the diesel of third countries. On the other hand, I think that we should move to the first sector with clarity and sincerity, I do not know if you do, that the mode of agricultural production, as it has been conceived in the last century and in part of this, is not sustainable, and in fact leads you to ruin, because it is impossible to maintain the levels of production with the conditions that you want to continue to apply, which is basically bringing thought, regardless of which one, that well, in fact, you want to make it more flexible to bring certain raw materials that, obviously, are from third countries, that we put by chance, some are transgenic soybeans from the Amazon and other tropical forests. This is unsustainable for the model and for the planet. Regarding the proposal negotiated by EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, say that, well, we will vote in favour of the initiative. The first two points, which affect what it has to do with supporting the sector at this time of economic crisis, seem appropriate to us, the second point which is to enable instruments for the effective enforcement of the food chain law, which is true that it is having problems in its implementation. It is true that it was adopted recently, but there are problems in its implementation, we also think it is right. We also think that the reference on two occasions, if I remember correctly, is in the third and last point, to resilience, both in terms of energy resources and in terms of agro-ecological transition, in order to be more resilient to situations like this. And it is that this affects what I was saying to you now, Mr Barrio, and it is that it is necessary to change the production model of the primary sector to be more resilient, not to circumvent certain requirements set by the new CAP to receive public funds, and that we find ourselves in five years' time with a new crisis that again affects the primary sector, and we have not made any transformation of any kind of the agri-food model, and again that the formula is to re-flexibilize the requirements, in this case, the eco-schemes that will surely be what you least like about the new CAP. Therefore, we do believe that we must accompany ourselves as we spoke or as we commented at the first point of this plenary session. The short-term measures in support of the sector, which in this case is having a bad time, must be accompanied, but we must also make it clear that the model must be transformed, because if we are not resilient to future crises that may happen, and in this regard, we think it is appropriate, appropriate, this reference. It does give us... well, with regard to the flexibility of, well, of the beards, we agree, and on the other hand, with regard to raw materials, I have already mentioned, we do worry a little about where these come from. We understand the need at this time to relax the entry conditions of certain raw materials, especially for animal feed, but, well, we want to point out that we are concerned, because we are already... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... raw materials, especially for animal feed, but, well, we want to point out that we are concerned - because we were already concerned earlier - where certain raw materials come from and at the cost of what these raw materials come from to sustain that level of production that we have in the country. But in any case, well, we will vote in favour of the initiative. We will vote against the original one put forward by the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u37	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u38	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. And briefly, too. Mr. Soto, you have a monotheme for all speeches. I mean, the right is an involutionist. It's good for all the speeches: we talk about the economy, we talk about agriculture, we talk about culture, we talk about everything. He's worth everything, and that can't be. For us it is not involutionary to lower taxes, for us it is good for people; it is good for people and it is good for businesses. It's good, they have more economic capacity, they can spend more, they can invest more. He's good, he's not an involutionist. It'll be something else, but not involutionist. It is not involutionary to review the CAP. No, he's not an involutionist. It is realistic, because in fact it is going to be done, is that in fact the CAP is going to be reviewed. Let's call it flexibility. Okay, but it's going to be checked, but the targets aren't going to change. I don't mean that either. The European People's Party is involved in the new CAP, and other organisations, and the party where the Citizens' Party is integrated. They're in the CAP. But we're talking about a review, because they're needs. Flexibility can be understood. I'm going to support that point of course from the transaction, yes, because it seems to me that... I mean, but it's not involutionary to ask for revision, it's realistic, because it's actually going to be done. Nor is it involutionist, because you also bring it into all debates, nor is it involutionist to say that electrics are not criminals. We do not believe that electrics are criminals - and you are - are necessary, they are necessary. And more now in the present moment we are living, to give formulas for how to get out of the crisis, for how to generate new sources of energy. It's just that they're necessary. Without the electrics we'd be lost. So I think you have to leave the monotheme this or the permanent stir of involutionism in relation to these issues. We think differently, but he's not an involutionist. I find most of the things your Minister Garzón says to be involutionary, but there it is. Anyway... The law of the food chain. We had our position, because we wanted a better law, because we wanted a law that better protected the agricultural and livestock sector. That's why, of course, and when you object to something, it's because you disagree, because you have an alternative, and we had it, but that wasn't the one that was approved. So in that sense, and today, we respect the food chain law like any other, like the one who voted for it. And not only do we respect it, but we rely on it, or we can claim it on issues that are important as the subject of the bonuses to which I referred earlier. I want to say that Mrs Etxebarria told me that we were saying things but we lacked solutions to put forward. Of course, we frame the need, the solutions the experts, the functions the experts, especially the sector, the professional organizations have to give the solution. We frame the need, and that is why we talk about that we know that there is a need now, and of course that we frame it in the European Union in the CAP, in the common agricultural policy, in the Spanish Strategic Plan, because they are the ones who will define that way of acting. And, logically, as we know, they're going to be reviewed or they're going to be made more flexible, because we're really going to do it. Also on a strategic, timely, short-term basis, and then again as strong as we think the CAP can be. And I did mean the... I have, of course, placed the emphasis on the Spanish Government and on the European Union, because these issues need to be addressed. I also wanted to focus on this revision of the Strategic Plan or of the CAP, but I was speaking at my first point, what I was saying was solidarity with the Basque primary sector in these difficult times of crisis, lack of supplies and high costs, and urge the Basque institutions - in addition to their powers - to take the support measures in accordance with professional organisations in the sector to avoid the closure of farms and livestock farms in the Basque Country. So we did insist on Basque institutions. It is clear that I tabled this amendment, this proposal, this motion. 15 days ago, things happened. That is why I was also waiting for the group's amendments, to look at them constructively, to bring them into line with the current situation. That is to say, I will vote in favour of my motion, logically, because I understand that it says important things in its first points fundamentally, but I will also vote in favour of the compromise amendment, because I understand that I also have no doubt that point number two, forgive me, point number four of your compromise amendment, when it says "to establish measures that allow flexibility to be made during the time the CAP is needed", this is to revise the CAP in some way so that Member States can increase with the production of state cereals through the use of beards - well, that is already on the table, as has already been said - and the entry of raw materials especially for animal feed. That is also to change the time required for such regulations, such requirements that are made to other countries. So in that sense I think I agree. We were talking a little bit about the same thing, and I wanted to certify in one more way what I was asking the advisor the other day, which is the Spanish Strategic Plan to make it really realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u39	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Househouse, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u40	Thank you again, ma'am. In my first speech, it has not given me time to explain what has led us to... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u41	Thank you again, ma'am. In my first speech, he has not given me time to explain what led us to find an arrangement with groups supporting the government, and what led us to accept or sign this transaction. We thought it necessary to negotiate and to talk, to give up and to defend our sector, because we know that this is critical, and that they must have effective decisions and terms. Mr Prinete and Mr. Tellegio have described them more or less, and we have all seen what is recorded in the transaction, and, for us, it is especially important to increase the inspection of the law of the food chain and to emphasize the agrocological transition of the sector. And apart from that, we can see that the need for conversation between professors and political parties of Euskal farm farming and fishing is to continue to help the sector. So we think it's a good deal, and the president leaves the door open to create more measures that will help the meeting with the political teams, and from the monographics we'll soon be able to overcome. However, we wish to remark that if we take immediate measures, we must be able to do as soon as possible. A large portion of the money that was used in October for hire has not yet been paid, and the same thing is happening at 2020 with the contributions of wine and cider. We've registered some written questions last week to find out what's going on, and we think we've got to set up the other resources to prevent this emergency from taking care of it as soon as possible, otherwise it'll be too late for a lot of people. There has been no agreement with the proposing group. Firstly, because we are never made an offer in this respect, and secondly, because - as I have explained - our discrepancies with European policies - which we have, we also have - are not yours. I have mentioned earlier some differences between your vision and ours, but by setting another example of your understanding of the defence of the agricultural sector, I would like to comment that in your motion you propose an amendment to the proposal of the CAP Strategic Plan, but that in Andalusia you are asking Brussels to exceed the 25% minimum income requirement so that active farmers can claim the CAP. That is to say, if you already demanded little to be an active farmer, you do not want anything to be demanded. If that were accepted, anyone who did not have any agricultural income could charge the CAP, to the detriment of those who are professionally engaged in this activity. And that is what they propose to defend farmers, but we do not know which ones; certainly not those here. That is why we do not fully believe their concern for our sector. And they talk about food security, about food sovereignty, without questioning the dominant intensive agro-gaining model, nor the socio-economic inequalities, nor the ecological destruction and depopulation that these globalized industries generate. For decades (...) these policies have devoted large economic resources to subsidizing agricultural and industrial livestock owned by landowners, large corporations and investment funds that have owned the land and the sector and secured subsidies and profits. It is a process that has been accentuated over the years. And we believe that this is the model that is being defended when we ask that the farm strategy be abandoned at the table or that of biodiversity by 2030. And that's the model that stands for itself, and it's not ours, nor the one we have or the one we want. And, well, if our transactional does not cover everything we would have wanted, of course, we do believe that it is much more in line with the needs of our sector than the original proposal. And I take this opportunity to thank Mr Telleria and Mr Prieto for their willingness to reach this agreement. And we also thank Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita and the People's Citizens' Group if they support him with their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u42	Thank you, Mrs. New House. The Socialist Basque doesn't have a word to say. Mr. Tellegioía, the Eurcan patriots, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u43	I'm out of my mind. I'll be brief, but I feel more comfortable here than in the chair, that I don't feel. Look, Mr. Barrio, I've already told you and I'll insist again. You wanted to bring here a debate that is not from here. They have made in the People's Group, in the People's Party, photocopies of a proposal to all the autonomous communities and are leading all parliaments, in their confrontation with the Socialist Party. Do it where it fits, don't come here and mess with your stuff. And, in fact, it is seen in its proposal, in its motion, which refers only to the Ministry and something to the European Union. And I insist, the powers of the Basque Government and the outside parliaments are important, and the capacity is very important. And, in fact, they're transferring help. The other day I repeated to you, the outlaws, perhaps Mr Casanova doesn't like anything or seems very little to him what they put on, is what they are putting at the moment in an emergency situation. Look... and you're pretending to change the targets, and I'm going to clear one thing up for you. To make the CAP more flexible, to change some tools, is not to change the objectives; the objectives must be maintained. And that's the big difference between you and me. Because it would be the same - now that Mr. Otero - to tell the firefighters that temporarily, with little water, they have to put out the fires with sprinklers instead of with hoses. The tools have changed, the objective has not changed, the objective remains to extinguish the fire. That is the flexibility of CAP reform. And I would like to stress again that I have heard in the previous debate that the PNV is sectarian, that we refuse agreements. And this is an agreement we have signed, which has nothing to do with it; we are neither sectarians nor we refuse the agreement. We have, of course, drawn from the agreement a debate which was intended to take advantage of this, I think, but which is to talk about food sovereignty... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... we have drawn from the agreement a debate which was intended to take advantage of this, I think, but which is to talk about food sovereignty. That is a debate we will have to have at the moment. It is not currently part of the agricultural sector's emergency. But of course, I'll let you know. That you, Mr Soto, have commented, have made the comparison with energy sovereignty. If energy sovereignty is to want to have, we generate energy, but the one who proposes that is permanently denied to any sustainable energy facility - because it does not see it - then we will find it difficult to get there. And if anyone believes that food sovereignty is going to be reached with the surface that we have in this country, only with agroecology, because it will also have to be complicated. It will be complicated especially if, as I have listened to you, you want to talk about providing all kinds of food to all Basque citizens and even fertilizers, including livestock feed, etc., etc. I've already told you that every month Basque farmers have to bring 30,000 tons of maize from France every month. Well, that would try to generate it here in agro-ecological format, because it would take us and practically the entire Alavesa Plain. Then we'll have to put tomatoes, lettuce, onions and leeks elsewhere. And all of that probably doesn't fit in trying to make all of Euskadi's agricultural land available for food production. And without further ado, I thank Mrs Etxebarria for the thanks, and at the same time I reiterate the thanks. And this is an example that if we talk, and we are all willing, we come to agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u44	Thank you, Mr. Tellegio. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u45	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I had told Mr Carmelo Barrio that I was not going to answer him, but he tempted me with his intervention. I'm very sorry, but flexibility and review is not the same. And look at your proposal. You are clearly talking about revising the CAP and reviewing two other pacts at European level relating to food sovereignty. And therefore, with that approach we and we cannot agree. Because we do believe that they are trying to take advantage of the current crisis framework in order to be able to condition, or at least revise, the objectives of the CAP. And then, on the subject of tax breaks, if you're not an involutionist... no, well, fine. Let's not use that term is not involutionist lowering taxes. What is contradictory is the policy that you repeatedly propose, which is, on the one hand, to give direct aid to the primary sector and, on the other hand, to lower taxes. When then, in fact, they don't even do it. I remind you of all the tax increases made by the Government with an absolute majority of Mr Rajoy. It raised 40 tax rates. Therefore, it is no longer contradictory its policy, it is that even when discursively raise tax cuts then they bring them to completion. And Mr Tellería, I do agree that there are even energy limits to have full energy sovereignty in Euskadi, taking into account the level of industrial activity, on the one hand, and also the country's orography. The same applies to agri-food sovereignty. But what can be done is to bet, in any case, to increase the level of sovereignty; that of course, in recent decades, as far as energy is concerned, it has not been the bet, as I said in the intervention of the first point, that has not been the case. It's been betting on gas insistently. And for our part, committed, indeed, that in the full monograph of next week we will probably also have the opportunity to address everything they have to do with this issue. Because it also has a great impact on the energy crisis, and on the price rise we are experiencing. What has to do with the primary sector and vulnerability right now is suffering. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u46	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put the original text of Mr. Bario Barroja's motion into the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 72; in favour 5, contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u47	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the Esquilists, Eh Collectors, and the Middle Exercise Amendments. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 70; the votes given, 72; the opponents 72; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u48	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal of the Ministero-Vlamentary Group, concerning the end of the mask in the Schools. Discussion and final resolution." Mrs. Martinez, representing the Mistto-Vox team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we've been trying to give... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have sought to give scientists and experts a significant weight in decision-making to manage the health crisis caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus and minimize its consequences. And today we have a magnificent opportunity to respond to your arguments and explanations, and to take decisions according to your approaches. Just over a month ago, the Spanish Association of Pediatrics advised to start the descalation in the use of masks in the classrooms of children under 12 years of age. He advised to establish a timetable for the progressive removal of masks in classes, starting with the underage students, until after reaching the older ones. But once again, the experts' opinions have fallen into a broken sack, pushed by what they call caution. As an alternative to masks, they propose obvious measures, such as increased ventilation in the classrooms, with the aim of moving towards the normalization of the educational experience, something that begins to urge after two years of abnormality in the classes, with impact, moreover, on the youngest that the experts start to value, but that we can only know within a time. It is the experts themselves who invite us to take the decision that we are debating today in this plenary room, something that has been applied in other countries in our environment for many months, but which here is kept operational without any justification other than caution. Among many other things, we are reminded that experience confirms that the younger the person, the lower the risk of suffering the most serious consequences of the infection by COVID-19. In addition, the younger the person is, his or her ability to spread to others, the smaller. Evidence that advises to take into account the approach that Vox has brought to this House today, and that it will presumably be rejected because it brings them Vox, a reason of unquestionable scientific weight. I don't know if Councilwoman Sagardui will refer to this kind of expert to decide how and when to remove the classroom masks. I don't know if you'll consider pediatricians expert in child health. What I have no doubt is that they are experts, and I understand that your advice should be taken into account, even if today it is not going to be done for such a technical reason as that Vox is the party that brings its approaches to this House. Today in the classrooms there is a parallel reality that has little to do with other vital spaces. For example, 100 % of the tickets go back to the stadiums and also to the snack. Positive asymptomatic cases, or mild symptoms, are no longer required to do quarantine. Normality is returning to our lives, and this is not leading to a negative evolution of the contagions; even less so as regards hospitalizations and income in the ICU. Add more objective data. 93% of the adult Basque population already has the full vaccination schedule, 69% with the booster dose already inoculated. In addition, 59% of the paediatric population has at least one dose of the VOCID-19 vaccine, 43% with the full schedule. And we're talking about those kids who go to class every day with their masks. Children aged between five and 11 years. That is to say, the conditions are in place, and not only do we say this, for a change of course, to soften measures which in the Basque Country have generally been significantly tougher than in neighbouring regions and countries. To all this should be added the experience of countries in our environment, to which caution is also required in their measures. Governments that are supposed to have also been advised by experts, whose priority objective is to ensure the health and safety of their representatives, of the entire population. In England, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, only the use of masks in classrooms for older than 12 years is mandatory. In Sweden, classroom masks are prohibited, similar to those in force in Norway or Finland. More issues that support this Parliament's position in favour of the motion for a resolution that we are raising today. All the people here are aware that the debate on lifting the compulsory use of masks inside is already on the table in the Basque Country and also in the rest of Spain. In fact, it is a measure that has already been taken in very close countries, as close as France. And the pediatricians themselves, who know something about these matters, already point to the school environment as a model of (?) ideal monitoring to face the process of progressive descaling of the use of masks inside. The pediatricians themselves say that this should be done, so we understand that we should follow the guidelines that are marking us. If we really want to progress towards normality, not the new one, but the one we always have, it is of utmost importance – as experts from a wide range of fields assure you – to gradually withdraw restrictive measures that still apply in educational institutions, and to adapt them to the epidemiological situation, ensuring the correct monitoring of impacts and results for their implementation in other areas. For months now, and from the Basque Country itself, we are already talking about mid-2021, there was doubt that it would be reasonable to differentiate between three- and five-year-olds and those who already have six at the time of applying restrictive measures in classrooms, among other things, because they share a large number of needs. In addition, basic needs for development, for the achievement of optimal comprehensive health. Even the WHO itself, the Basque Government's benchmark for decision-making on the management of the pandemic, has repeatedly expressed its doubts about the desirability of imposing masks below the age of 12. Moreover, they have always valued serious conditionalities to the imposition of such a restriction among the youngest because of the misuse they make of the mask, because of the negative consequences that they can have to maintain adequate attention in the classrooms, because of the impact they have on children with health problems, because of the proliferation of oral and dermatological infections, due to the continued use of the masks. The arguments put to us by the Government, this very week we have heard the poorly scientific arguments put forward by the Lehendakari Urkullu, and also by Councilwoman Sagardui, defending the continuity of the use of masks inside, because it remains absolutely advisable. Not one more explanation, the most common reason used by the Basque Government since the beginning of the pandemic. Faced with this position, so many times reproduced during these last two years of health crisis, countries of our environment like France, Denmark, Belgium... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... position, so often reproduced during these last two years of health crisis, is located in countries in our environment such as France, Denmark, Belgium, which have already decreed the elimination of masks in enclosed spaces. I'm running out of excuses. The caution of this Basque Government has not been shown to be effective in the management of the pandemic. There is no evidence to support the self-congratulation of this executive, which is reflected in remote-directed reports on his work in these months. Its particularly restrictive measures have not resulted in a lower incidence of reasonable mortality rates or a lower impact of the covid on the economy of this region. The caution and caution of the Basque Government has not resulted in better health for Basques in relation to autonomous communities where the measures have been much more lax. The evolution of the pandemic in Spain, in relation to countries in our environment, the example of these countries, the high percentage of the population vaccinated and immunized, the small possibility that the virus will lead the youngest population to the most serious manifestations of the disease, the lower potential of these young people to transmit the virus and the impact of the use of the mask that will have on the overall health of the population under 12 years of age, of course, suggest that the compulsory use of the mask for these children should be lifted. Right now, there is nothing tangible that this government can grasp to maintain that obligation. Nothing but the use of caution, caution and fear, and perhaps the paralysis of the Sánchez Government. We're already talking about gripping the coronavirus approach. Progress is already being made in this regard, and in the classrooms of our schools children still do not see their faces. Without seeing the faces of their teachers, their expressions, that very important part of the nonverbal language that represents the highest percentage of communication between students, and also between students and teachers. And, before I finish, I am eager to hear the arguments of those who do not debate with Vox because our approaches seek to crucify the parliamentary debate. It would be very interesting to hear the defenders of the indefensible management of this government, an absolutely irrefutable fact, that at this point, and despite the data of the evolution of the pandemic and the views of many experts, at this time the Basque Government lacks any plan of descalation of restrictive measures still in force in the schools. That inoperativeness does wink, it does frustrate, it does disconcert, and not that Vox brings this initiative to this plenary. A detailed descalation plan would be required throughout the region, throughout the national territory and for all people, but today we are talking about the use of masks in classrooms for children between the ages of 6 and 11. Ladies and gentlemen, do not abuse the resilience of our young people, certainly much greater than ours. The consequences can be very serious, and, as you should know, it is much better to prevent than to cure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u50	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Chaus Group, Mr. Gil, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The initiative we are debating today is now more than half a year old on a subject such as the covid pandemic, whose situation, as we know, is changing very rapidly. Therefore, one should think that perhaps it has become obsolete. However, the current situation, the current situation, makes this debate meaningful; it is more appropriate than ever. Because, precisely these days, the Government of Spain is considering the removal of the masks inside, just afterwards. It will be a coincidence that Citizens made an inquiry to the Government in the Congress of Deputies a few days ago for the same purpose. However, at the time our parliamentary group had the caution to table an amendment to this initiative, not in terms of masks or masks, but on the basis of the scientific evidence available at every moment. That is what we thought, and it still seems to us to be more responsible and more sensible. And, therefore, our amendment - also today, six months later - we consider it to be fully valid. Applying that criterion, we believe that the right thing to do today is to remove the masks from the classrooms, since there is no study that clearly corroborates the usefulness of the mask inside, and we believe that any restriction that does not have a clear scientific endorsement should be removed because individual freedom is a superior good that must be protected, as has indeed happened in other European countries. The masks have already been removed from the courtyards, and the Education Advisor himself has acknowledged that it has not taken a significant turn. And we all know what the courtyard of a school of young children is like. It is true that some are outside, at least partially, but it is also true that children run, jump, scream and play without distance, while in the classroom they may be sitting, maintaining a more correct distance. If you take it out in the yard, it would make more sense to take it out in the classroom, wouldn't it? That is, it is neither normal nor justified that two-year-olds, for example, have never been able to see the face of most people in their environment. It is not normal that you have only seen half the face of teachers, friends, relatives, neighbors, at an age when you are beginning to learn to interpret gestures, nonverbal communication, where imitation is fundamental to learning. We have had to live with these restrictions, and they have certainly been necessary. They're not going to be free, they're going to have consequences, we're going to see them soon, but it's not appropriate for us to extend them longer than strictly necessary. The central government itself has said, by the President's mouth, that they will remove the mask from the interiors soon. And the minister has said, in a desire for concreteness, that it will be sooner than later. What are you waiting for? Well, I'm afraid that so that they can use it as a smokescreen when communicatively interested in the multiple crises they have open, and that they pile up on top of each other. We consider that now is the time to eliminate the mask of interiors, even more so in schools, among other things because it has been shown that children have a lesser transmission of the virus; they are also in the development phase and knowledge of facial expressions, which are key to them. It is clear that with this we are not supporting the attitude that the proposing group has had throughout the pandemic with regard to vaccination. Attitude that we would qualify as unresponsible or, at least, unresponsible... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... supporting the attitude that the proposing group has had throughout the pandemic with regard to vaccination, an attitude that we would call unresponsible, or at least uncommitted. Moreover, we consider that if we can now be talking about removing the masks, it is precisely because vaccination has worked and has been massive. One of the few measures, by the way, that they have had the necessary scientific support, and that has obviously worked. Looking back, we see that the management of the pandemic that the Basque Government has done, from our point of view, has been, without palliatives, a disaster. It is true that it was not easy, but it is also true that it was also not easy to do so badly, and that in these two years we have seen a LABI led by renowned international health expert Jonan Fernández. Continuous gangs, multiple contradictions, the chaos of Osakidetza... Anyway. We have talked a lot in this House already about all these issues, and it is true that this has resulted in us being the ones who have had the most restrictions, and yet we have accumulated the worst results. And here we are. We continue to enjoy the already world famous good management of the PNV also on this issue. To date, seven European countries have already eliminated the mask inside, with indicators of incidence much higher than ours. And if you have to remove the mask inside it is clear that even more in schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u52	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Is someone involved in a group that doesn't run any corrections? No. So, Mistto-Vox, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u53	Thank you, Madam President. What would this Parliament be without these moments of democratic exercise, without this demonstration of responsibility of those who have to ensure the interests of those who voted for them, without this proof that those who are sitting here are for the common good and not just for defending the interests of their business/political party. As I say, what would be without this representation of democracy that we have right now. This is the House's response to an issue that is both a matter of concern and a matter that has raised experts of various kinds and against government immobilisation that is intended to have negative consequences for girls and families, and that we should not rule out that it results in worse academic results than the already very improved ones we have recently known. The conclusion is clear. The majority of the Basque Parliament rejects lifting the obligation to wear masks in classrooms under the age of 12 because yes, or rather, because Vox has to be told that it is not his approach. He's got noses. Mr Gil, I agree with you that we actually have to go back to what the experts say, but don't mix barbecues with merinas. What we have come today to demand in this Parliament is the elimination of masks in underage children (?)). Everything else you have adorned is not conceived in this initiative. Having said that, under normal conditions I say to you that we agree with your amendment because we must indeed take the decisions that the experts bring and that at all times we believe they must be feasible. The problem is what experts we pay attention to, the use made of them by the different governments, the indisguised recourse to the closest ones when they have not been used without even exist, which we are still looking for those that formed the group of experts that supposedly advised Sanchez and company. This has been done by seriously undermining citizens' trust in scientists, by undermining the expert word. Today I have shared with you the opinions of a priori pediatrician experts without political toll to pay, who propose measures, who present reasons and reflections, and also detail procedures and alternatives that claim to ensure the integral health of the youngest. And I think now is the time for political decision, although you have taken it a priori. It's terrible, but at the moment when we live almost every approach has the support of some expert, and if you say so who we are interested we raise you to the category of expert of proven solvency, but because we drag down your curriculum and are no longer experts. This Basque Government, which we have very clearly, should be guided by the way in which countries in our environment like Europe so much: France, Denmark, Belgium... They could review their way of acting for two years and the impact of their decisions, and in this way, decide a change of course, promote normality from classrooms... And this is also that it has a multitude of reasons to do so, there are a multitude of experts, even the World Health Organization, who recognize it. I don't know if you've been in the schoolyards or on the way out of the children's schools. I do, and I've seen the creatures come out with the mask: they have the mucus stuck on the mask because they're little girls. You know the kids drool, you're going to tell me that no, at least my nephews, just like yours are special, and you're wearing the wet, wet mask, but just check it out. All this has generated dermatitis in children because they have very fine skin. Ladies and gentlemen, you will know. The only thing we say is to eliminate masks, as the WHO says, - I don't know what they laugh at, as the WHO says in children under 12 years of age. I believe that the initiative is totally viable and possibly acceptable. You'll see. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u54	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. "Essalka Populara-Ciudadnos's representative from there."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u55	Only from the seat. Two things. On the one hand, well, I understand that I have not talked about anything other than the content of the proposal, not to mention, I have not even talked about children's snots. And secondly, to say that it is true that there are experts for almost anything and with almost any opinion, but it is also true that there is a scientific community, and that as a result of the discussion of these experts, in the end a generalized criterion is assumed, which I understand is to be referred to. When I was talking about expert judgment, I don't mean any expert judgment, I mean the judgment of the right scientific community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u56	Thank you, Mr. Gil. [[Pause]] [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] [[Pause]] ... After discussion, we shall put the original text of the proposition as the Mistatha-Vox team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 65; votes given, 67; supporters 5, oppositions 62; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u57	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 65; the votes given, 67; the supporters 6; the opponents, 55; the Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u58	So it's not accepted. Five point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced together by you as members of the Podemos-IU, in the practice of the game. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Martínnezion, your word is for introducing and defending action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u59	Good afternoon. Gaur Elkarrekin We canleft Unidak berriro aurkezten dugu jokoak Euskadiko gasteriaren dituen ondoroekin lotutako ekimen bat. Because, logically, after the inquiry that we made to Mr Vicelehendakari, and also because of the data from the report of the Basque Observatory of the Game, especially related to youth and play, where we have already said on more than one occasion that very worrying data are reflected, such as that 25% of the youth in Euskadi recognize being a player in the last year, and that the reasons, moreover, are produced by an increasing standardization of the practice of the game as a model of leisure and as a model of socialization, as if it were a thing without any effect. The 7th Euskadi Addiction Plan 2017-2020 also recognized, and recognizes, the risks of both face-to-face and online gambling, especially in the young population. He also points out that 27% of the Basque population, more than 400,000 people, is an active player. Also, according to the Basque Medical Department, the fact shows that Eukadin 43,000 people are playing pathologically wrong and that 5% of young people have that addiction. We have often accused that the business of sports and games of chance has been very strikingly extended in our towns and villages, and that the attention of gambling is a matter of indifference to people who are Luthera, and that it is a question which affects all families and friends. Because of this, more than a year ago we submitted a proposal for a law to amend Law 4/91, Regulator of gambling in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which contained many very concrete and very ambitious measures in terms of limitation of establishments, minimum distances between play establishments and educational centres, much more ambitious regulation of advertising, limitation of hours, limitations and control of access and coordination, among other things, with self-prohibited registers at the state level. Urtebete geroxeago, Eusko Jaurlaritzak dekretu bat onartu zuen jokoak gizartean dituen adorioei aurre egiteko, errornka berriak egokitzeko. Dekretu horretan gure proposed batzuk jasotzen zirens, bathed batzuk kanpo beasts generated zirens. That is why we have said, and we believe, that the newly adopted decree 19/2022 of 8 February is not enough to meet all the challenges and problems posed by the game in Euskadi, and that it is therefore necessary to adopt more effective measures to prevent the consequences of the pathological game, and also to propose an alternative leisure to that which is currently offered to young people in Euskadi. And this initiative is the result of the examination of this decree, which is the result of the interaction, and contains all the points that were to be entered into the newly accepted decree, and which were important for us. We have proposed, and we propose, in this motion - which we know is not going to be approved, but we will continue to fight for these contents - a more ambitious reduction in gambling halls and betting houses. And we do that once we read the reports, the recent report presented by the Basque Observatory of the Game. Where he tells us that face-to-face play is predominant in Euskadi, which is where we also have more skills, and that it remains the preferred option in almost 70% of cases. And also with one worrying fact: that 31% of the youth in Euskadi started in the game being underage, in the game face-to-face. Therefore, there we have a greater control to do, because there is a colliery that still occurs in Euskadi. Now, with these facts in our hands, it is necessary for us to limit the number of Basque settlements, as well as to forbid us to install the locals near the schools, and to prevent the young from becoming social in such places. This is why the measure of distance seems indispensable to us, in se nos quedan cortos los 150 meters of establecides en el decreto. Y, por drop, creemos, creemos que el ti tempo lamente nos zaraón... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... iruditzen zaigu, we are left short the 150 meters established in the decree. And, therefore, we believe that time, unfortunately, will give us the reason why action will be taken, but later. Baita was one of the most increased game typologies are also online sports bets. But also that online game that is regulated and that is regulated by state matter and there is a decree that limits it and regulates it very much, but it is also produced through the sports betting machines that have the same online gambling system that are established in the hospitality premises. Therefore, the gains that are not based solely on luck and are also based on immediate rewards, are others that through those machines we also have to get their hands on. Therefore, the next measure that I was going to establish, which is that of access control much more regulated than what we have in the Decree, seems to us to be totally fundamental. There are access control measures that improve the previous situation. We were told that access control was also to be included in the hotel machines, but access control to the hotel machines and the machines established at the hotel sites is completely free. I mean, there's no control, not even as if it's the command that's set up for the tobacco machines. Anyone who enters that establishment can play, and there is not even a control - we have said on many occasions - of the player's identification on the machine, which is how it is done in the online game, and those machines are connected to the operating system of the company in question. And we think technology makes that control possible and we think it's necessary. And, I say again, I'm sure it'll be done, but later. So the sooner we do it, the sooner we get to people who may get into trouble at some point. Baita ere publizitariaren tiararekin zenbait neurri hartu dira, baisa gure ustez motz geratuko dira. That is why we propose to limit advertising much more and to set the same schedule as set out in the Royal Decree regulating the marketing and advertising of the game at the state level, and to set those same schedules, since with the regulations in Euskadi we are giving two more hours of publicity as regards the regulation of that decree. And also static publicity. A distance is established in order to establish a static publicity, a distance from schools and other centers, but we believe that this distance must be increased to enhance the prevention. We have said it again and we have said it many times, the Register of Prohibitions. We do not understand the problem of a real commitment on the part of the Basque Government to access and coordinate, but effectively and permanently, with the Register of State Prohibitions. Because what is assuming this, far from being an assignment of competencies, is an improvement for people who have problems with the game and who have made the effort and who have done the process of pointing to that record of prohibitions so that on the weekend when they go to Cantabria, they go to Rioja or go to Burgos who may have a greater limitation to be able to play and do not pose a risk to their pathology. A path that follows, that it costs a lot to work it and that it costs a lot to get out of it, and that a record of prohibitions is very important in the face of self-regulation for the players. Eta azkena, éta seguroski zailena eta neurori asko behar duenak, we also need to change and bet on policies that change the leisure model, a leisure model that we have to turn to practices, logically, healthier. We have to think about the type of leisure that is offered to young people. It must be reflected, if there are more young people who use time-passes as chief activities and use them as means of pulling them out, it is not only because this activity is vain, but probably because they have no other choice at hand. Hence we proposed to guarantee the right to culture, sports, and a salutary recreation by means of this law, and also by other measures. Finally, and it is more necessary - and we know that we also agree on this - and action has been taken in recent years, many of which have been proposed by our parliamentary group - to create a specific fund for the prevention and treatment of gambling addiction, and also to ensure public resources for prevention and rehabilitation plans for people suffering from gambling. And plans that we also propose to coordinate, to be involved also with the educational community, Euskadiko Gazteria Kontseiluarekin, ludopathy jasaten duten pertsonekin eratu dituzten elkarte horiekin, gate elkarteekin. Azken finan, gizratearekin koordinatzea horrekin background egingo ziren ekimen guztiak. Today it will not be possible to reach an agreement, even if there are points on which we are, but for us it was important to take decisive steps in the first and second points of our motion, which was the most concrete point and with more concrete measures. In the others, well, because in the specific fund for the prevention and treatment of addiction we know that we agree and hope that if not today with some other initiative we will be able to launch it, and, moreover, I am sure that with the majority support of the rest of the groups. But there are measures that we know - and I said it at the beginning - if they are not taken today, we are sure that, unfortunately, they will have to be taken later, because the control of access to sports betting machines in hotels seems to us essential to tackle this problem. And another series of measures that are not going to be taken today, but which we hope - and I say it again - that if the Government does so on its own, it will also seem good to us, but that, unfortunately, they will be adopted at some other time. Y nada más. Ah, tambien. At this moment, to thank EH Collect, they made an addition correction, and we saw him with great interest. We hope, too, that, as it happens with the funds, by other initiatives, we should put this activity into the game's study of the servatory, and, well, we hope to try it another time, but, well. Thanks also for making that correction and signing it in the middle. And we expect the other teams to... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Trying it at another time, but, well. Thanks also for making that correction and signing it in the middle. And we expect the other teams to come to agreement another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u60	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over the crews who are running the corrections, representatives of the united EH team, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u61	Thank you, Chief. Well, today we have this kind of argument to discuss, about the practice of the game. And I think it is necessary first and then to explain the context of the motion, and also to mention the gaps in the new rule. We are now facing a decree which approves of the general rules of the game, which has just been accepted and applied, in this legal scope or frame, corresponding to the rules of the game. But perhaps these changes, or perhaps these steps, will not be sufficient to withstand this question as great as we desire to arrive at. And above all, so that many and many edges of the game can be fully worked out. In this sense, the proposing party in this motion allows us to integrate a great deal of contributions and innovation, and I think we have a chance to discuss a strong proposition this evening. The principal innovations, for instance, in this rule are connected with the discriminating of the wager-houses, and that it is defined as a minimum distance of 150 meters from schools or education; and the distance between the gaming-rooms is limited. And further opening is also inhibited. But the question is, what is the matter with the gaming-rooms, where the rules are no longer determined by this rule, and what will happen with the various gaming-rooms which are now open. And above all, how is it possible that we should face all these questions, and what new remedy does this rule allow us to invent? We believe that this rule might give us occasion to propose more things and more measures, and we believe that it is the cause of this day that gives us occasion to discuss some other grounds. A few weeks ago the brief "young and Game" was introduced in Bilbon in the Biscay Room. And besides, even a couple of weeks ago, we were able to discuss on the board the "Esquiresk of Game" report, where we could have an interesting discussion. The effects taken from the young and the Games report, I believe may be summed up in three major headlines, although the report is fairly thick and contains lots of data. But beyond the data, three cores can be given. That the presence of the game is still of great importance at some time, and especially that these places are socialization fields, these spaces. And among the younger ones, there is still a great weight in the halls. That the game is a highly masculinized area, that women play much less, and that it is remarkable that the crack is given there. And on the other hand, that it is essential to know where the limits of a series of online games are, in order to be able to design public policy, and above all to know in what country these young or young men are now moving in. And the conclusions which result from these headlines are also clear, and it is that there is still something to be done in the presence of the game, although the game of online is also to come to an end. In the field of the presence of the game, this rule has given the meaning of it. But we think it's not possible for him to exercise a more obvious depth exercise. And place the bets in the area of the houses, one of the main issues. We believe these still have an enormous weight in our city, our neighborhood, and our everyday life. And there's a lot of bets in it, and the ludopathy is still a very convenient area to develop there. And thanks to the fight against these gambling houses, we are also debating this motion today, and we are also debating the game and the problems that the game brings. It is evident the evil that these betting houses represent for our society, and especially for those people who have already developed an addiction to gambling; or those, the younger ones, for example, who may develop it or be affected in the day to day by these betting houses. And they force us to talk about this. And here I do want to mention the work and struggle that many movements have made, especially youth movements, to socialize that gambling houses pose a problem for the working class. And they don't have room in our neighborhoods. And in this sense, we often think that when we speak of games, they only look at them from the point of attention. And it can't be one of the few corners of the theme. However, in order to make a point of it, in the case of the verbs, "Especially the Seventh. Plan, it's been active for 2017-2021 years. And to make the evaluation, even if it's done, we still don't know what's going to happen since 2022, what we're gonna have in our hands. And as for submissions, and again to it, all dependence, and such dependence, as ludocy, give us a chance to arrive at two points. On the one hand, the state or adrenaline of the moment when this disease itself is causing you to do it again. But at the same time it has a direct relation to money, and to desire to gain, whether with desire or with will. Consequently, in this case a combination is given between them, which brings direct consequences, both personal and personal consequences, and collectives as well as those belonging to your family −. But the point is, this is not a capitalist system that's useful to all of this. Because the capitalist system needs gambling rooms and people who will leave a lot of money in those gambling rooms. And that's what they do especially favor. That's why we think we don't tell the gambling halls that there's even a way to stand against this system. And besides, these halls are placed in our towns and villages, and it is not a chance that there are more than there are in some neighbourhoods. There are also a few common features between those which are commonly used by the gaming-rooms. And the young are one of those collectives... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... There's more than there's to be. Moreover, there are some common features between those who commonly use game halls, and the young are one of these collective characters. It has also to do with the use of the public space, and the young with the expression of it in a systematic manner; that is to say, at the moment at which we have an independency of leisure, the gaming-rooms are occupied by young people by the lack of choice which they have in common, or the absence of a public field. Our cities and neighbors now have a different evangelical reality, and they're giving obvious transformations. And we believe that we must also speak of the use of the public space, and also of the occupation of the public space. Thus, for example, this decree ought to give rise to the power of increasing its authority. And apart from this, the presence games, for instance, which are also made in the bars, we must even discuss the boundaries around them. Therefore we believe that there are here also several propositions which have been specified in this motion, and that they are strong and useful enough to cultivate this vast area of the play, and to cultivate it. And for us, we cannot only continue to talk about the responsible game, but we believe that a very concrete frame is only played if we speak of it. In other words, we need to discuss the social problems that occur in the game halls, just as we criticize the system of playing games, so it is not possible to moralize the game; and this is what often happens, we admit the game, and what we understand is that only these extreme circumstances only bothers us about certain people or ludopathy? It is by personalizing and individualizing a very hard situation, but we believe that we must read it politically. And therefore we must discuss every corner of the game, and consider the deeper measures about it. In addition to this, and to conclude, our simple proposition has been ours, in order to give a stronger discussion about the online game, to start also other inquiries. And we believe that these investigations must also be a more significant development, and that throughout time we must place this development, or at least see what these observations give. Because we know that today perhaps the young man and the game have been announced by the report that it is mostly in presence that all the games are played, that is to say, in presence, but it's true that a generation that follows has other habits, other behaviors, in the field of online play. Then we think that we must consider this much further. And, by the way, we're proposing to take care of her. And it seems to us that if we do not succeed in the present, we shall be able to penetrate into it and discuss it later on. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u63	Politically and institutionally, we share that the task of preventing addictive behaviour, protecting the rights of minors and other vulnerable groups and protecting consumers must be an activity of constant interest, review and updating in the public authorities. The coalition government programme of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party is thus reflected when it assumes the need to establish specific prevention programmes for those groups most sensitive to the risks of drug use, gambling and other addictions in the youth collective. With today's motion we specifically address the effects of gambling practice among the Basque youth population, the assessment of the data from the last report of the Basque Observatory of the Game and whether the operational tools address the problems arising from the game. It is clear that the proposer of the motion does not comply with Decree 19/2022 of 8 February, which amends the decree... and approving the General Rules of the Game in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. To arrive at this consideration it is based on the last report of the Basque Observatory of the Game of 2020 and intends to amend a decree launched a month and a half ago, whose assessment of its effectiveness, today, is impossible to verify and also impossible to criticize with updated data. To reduce the number of gambling establishments, to establish a distance between them and the centres of primary, secondary and vocational education, to limit access to the game by age, to control access to the premises in order to comply with the age limits, to regulate the advertising, promotion and sponsorship of the game with express prohibitions, to limit the hours of audiovisual communication, to limit the number of licenses, to reduce certain gaming machines, to ensure the veracity of the prizes and the rules of the game by incorporating elements that moderate their addictive potential, to prevent the transfer and expansion of gaming premises in certain circumstances or to encourage the support and the granting of grants and aid to entities, collectives, foundations and associations working in the field of the fight against ludopathies are contained and are some of the amendments incorporated in the decree of 8 February of the same year. That in some cases they also coincide with aspects raised in the motion and with which, in any case, figures and proportions may differ more than concepts. The rule that to more limitations and more prohibitions more control of addictions I don't know if it's the most successful rule. Regular, organizing and controlling is correct, but it is more effective to raise education and awareness about the risks of certain habits, consumptions or games in both regulated and family education, as well as in the social and playful behaviours of adults. And education and awareness is important... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ...as in the family, as in the social and playful behaviors of adults. And education and awareness is important, because 70% of the citizenry in our community is related to the game, because the means of opportunity to play is very varied and because the ways to do it have been expanding. Much of the people who play do it after seeing it in the family, and many do it as an element of socialization or with the aim of earning money, from which it is deduced that education and awareness are key. As is well known, the Basque Government promotes annual support for different organizations to work on prevention, awareness-raising and awareness-raising about gambling and the fight against gambling, and also carries out activities in this regard from the Department of Safety with different tools, including the Guide to Early Detection and Prevention of Pathological Gambling, aimed at teachers, free-time monitors and people working with youth. In addition, the Ertzaintza Play and Show Unit ensures control of the current rules, having carried out 2,771 inspections in 2021. I consider that the proposals made by the motion are proposals that can serve as a reference for a later time, for when the decree has a tour, so that when with this decree of the Basque Observatory of the Game it has an evaluation. And this decree has not only been reached with the participation of the Game Regulatory Authority. This decree has also been made counting on the Basque Game Observatory, the Technical Advisory Commission of the Game and the Basque Game Council. For all these reasons, our amendment gives due time to the implementation of the decree, to the implementation of the new measures, and to their subsequent evaluation as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u64	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u65	Thank you, ma'am. First Vice President, Chiefs, members of the legislature. I would like to begin my speech today by taking the thread - so to speak - at which he ended his intervention in the interpellation the Sailburu Erkoreka. The largest face-to-face gaming operator in the Basque Autonomous Community is the State. It has the largest number of points of play and the most extensive network: State Lotteries. This is a reality, and I think it is appropriate that we take it into account. It's convenient that we have it. Well, I think that I am not mistaken in the subject of the game, and especially in the case of pathological games, that we all agree with the end, with the intensity of the measures to which we aim, but that we do not agree. Intensity. I say intensibility, because, in the measures, it is generally agreed, and is in practice. And it's legitimate to suggest different intensitys, but in some cases it's not very consistent, is it? If it isn't based on it or does not count the events and data. Both the statements made by the Sailburu during the inquiry last day 4 and the statements made by the members of the Observatory in the Commission were enlightening and enriching: they show that the problem of gambling is something that occupies and concerns this government. It also shows that the decisions are taken taking into account the sector, the associative fabric, the conclusions of the work carried out - in some cases pioneering, pioneering - that the Observatory of the Game has been carrying out. With regard to the content of the compromise amendment presented to us today, it is therefore clear that the reality of the game - and especially that of the pathological game - requires an interdisciplinary approach and work such as that which is being addressed and is being addressed from different departments of the Basque Government. Well, you guys... or at least, Mr Martíne, you believe that the decree granted on February 8th is not sufficient to challenge and to prevent all the questions and challenges which the games plan for Eukadin. Yes, of course. Of course I do. Sure. If we test the statement in an isolated way, that's right. Description is a fundamental element in combat with ludopathy, but it's not the only piece. It's not just a piece. I'll remind you of the three axiss that break the war against ludopathy, which the chief physician mentioned on the 4th of the month: the first, prevention, and sensiveization; the second, the control and vision of rule, the third, the compatriot of persons who are in trouble. We're talking about the complication of different departments, not just the Security area. And from the point of view of the sphere of legislation to avoid pathologically and to treat, we have the legislation which raises this problem. The decree is not the only element we have; it is essential, but not the only one. You know very well - we have already expressed this in previous talks we have had - that we are not in favour of amending the decree, which is what you are pursuing with your compromise amendment, at least in part of the points. As Mr Prieto said, and as the Councillor has already said in his day, time must be given for the content of the decree to be deployed and, of course, to assess its effects. The rules of the game are expected to be reviewed in three years. And it is clear that in the next review it will have to be adapted, it will have to be modified, but, of course, in the light of the data available and of the new realities or modalities of play that can be developed; that they can (...). There will be measures to be maintained, there will be measures to disappear, others to be modified, but, I insist, always in the light of the data to be obtained. That the decree isn't perfect? It's not perfect. That it's better? Of course it is better, but always in the light of those data and realities that we encounter, and responding to a work strategy planned by the Game Observatory. And something very important and that we must not forget either... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...and responding to a work strategy planned by the Game Observatory. And this is very important, and we must also not forget it, taking into account the competence of the Basque Government in this matter, which is a limitation in some important cases. This decree seeks to adjust the gambling offer in Euskadi to the socially tolerable margins, to ensure the protection of health and the prevention of problem gambling and to protect vulnerable minors and groups. Dekretuak joko lokalen eta ikastetxeen arteko distanceziak ezartzen ditu, lokalen arteko gutxieneko kopurua eta metroak murrizten ditu eta sarbideen eta publizitaren kontrola handitzen du. Eta neurori horiek ere analysis demografiko éta geografiko osoak egin ondoren hartu dira. And not everything is the decree. Progress is being made in the study of the socialization mechanisms of the game. The gender perspective, the impact of the game on our taxation, the online game are also being worked out. Reference has already been made to the guide for early detection of cases in the educational field. In other words, the positive action of the Basque Government in this area is not simply exhausted by amending the decree. We are all in agreement with the objective, even with the tools to be implemented, but we do not agree with the intensity with which they must be applied. That's the reality. I would like to remind you, in conclusion, of the words spoken by the director of Games and Shows in his appearance in this House, it is not a textual quote. We must be careful with the measures that are taken, because if very rigid measures are taken, we can bring about collapse in the sector and take over other more addictive practices related to illegal gambling, at a much higher risk than regulated gambling and (...). Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u66	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, thanks to Mr Zatón for bringing in a debate of... although I was in committee the other day, but we appreciate positively the interest of the public authorities and also of this Parliament in the pathological game, the ludopathy and, above all, the economic, social and public health problems that can arise from a practice because it also enters into, as I say, a series of particular problems and pathologies as a result of the abuse of the game. It is an issue that effectively affects everyone, families, acquaintances and friends, we always have one or we are always able to identify someone. What happens is that some data have been given, Mr Atutxa has given them, Mr Prieto has given them, they have also been given that are interesting. Man, we're in a country, Spain, where the main entrepreneur of the game is that it's the government, which I think your group is part of, your party. So, I imagine you'll repeat it a lot, but it's not only that people work there, there are workers, it's also a sector with which you always show particular solidarity and sensitivity; it's that you also raise large amounts of money, I think it's about four hundred and millions of euros, in 2020 the last data I saw was about 414 million euros in collection. That I understand that your Government devotes itself to the policies that you have also agreed to. With this, man, this is an issue that includes or intersects various factors, and another very important one is also economic activity, companies that are engaged in this sector where, I insist, there are workers, and also in the use of economic and establishment freedoms, they carry out this type of activity. That, by the way, they are not only subject to autonomous rules, not even at national level, but also to European rules. Here I think the important thing - and Mr Prieto has said it in good words too, and I agree essentially with what he has said - there are different attitudes to the game. We can have an attitude of prohibition, of limitation, of hiding it, of hiding the game, also in the cities, in the centers, or we can have an attitude to the game of transparency, of pedagogy and above all regulation. For me that is the three principles, the three axes that must govern the attitude of the public authorities to the fire. Firstly, transparency. Many times there is a tendency, above all, because this, trying to limit establishments in an absolute way thinking that this is going to tackle the problem, when we all know that this is not the case, has happened with other types of pathologies. On the contrary, on the contrary, the demand is particularly rigid, especially in people who are affected by certain diseases, in this case, ludopathy is considered a disease, and this is not going to reduce, of course, neither demand nor..., come on, even if we take out of the cities the gambling centers. The first principle is therefore transparency. The second is pedagogy, and within the pedagogy comes the work of the public authorities that you also put in your initiative at the last points, the Observatory of the Game. And I believe that there is also an important social awareness in this regard. And here, therefore, I believe that it is right that in this case the money we spend, which the Basque Government invests in the game and in other related policies, I believe that it is also appropriate to let them work and, indeed, they have achieved an important awareness of this problem which, I insist, can also be given. But, as I say, in a context where there are different interests and situations at stake, never better said. Pedagogy, therefore, is important. And thirdly, regulation, regulation. In the case of regulation, since not only state legislation must be taken into account, Euskadi, in the area of its competence, has adopted, has chosen to adopt a decree, a rule of regulatory rank, amending the decree regulating the general decree on gambling. That is to say, it has been approved, as Mr Prieto has recalled, and very recently. It's from the Official Gazette of February 15, coming into force the next day... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... which regulates the general decree on the game, which has been adopted, as Mr Prieto recalled, also very recently. It is the Official Gazette of 15 February, coming into force the next day, that is, it is practically a month and a half. By the way, it would have been good to have a fused text at the end of the text that would have greatly facilitated understanding. And among the main developments, good regulatory authority, etc. We met with the Government, I think its group too, when the Government was preparing the decree that was going to bring about major changes. And we also express to him two important concerns that we had, that he was a man who was also not limited to legal matters, above all, and that there was no abuse of restrictions in this area, and that we should be careful with both national and European rules on markets and free competition. And we asked the government to request a report from the Basque Competition Authority, which it did, which it did. And of the three recommendations he made, well there were four, but let's go more or less three concrete things asked him by the Competition Authority, the Government assumed two. One of them that affected the issue of horses, of betting related to equine centers, that is not. But the other two did include them. And another issue that we also raise with the Government, which is very important, and which is on one of the points of Mr Zatón's initiative too, I think it is number three, if I may recall, because it is the issue of coordination, it is already in the decree, it is in Article 18.9. There is the coordination, which I believe is fundamental, it is essential, it is basic, of the register of prohibitions that is called, the register of prohibitions, with the rest of the registers that exist in Spain. For me, it's the fundamental fact. That there's no I.D.... Well, man, there's identification, not only is that in Euskadi, as you will know, Mr. Zatón, it's the Ertzaintza that is inside, security, in this case the Ertzaintza, the one that carries out the inspection, isn't it? In other autonomous communities whose governments (?) participate, it is usually trade, at national level consumption, etc. In our case it is also security, and man, for I believe that control as such must be done, that there are judgments, and so on, man, for it is, of course, the way of complaints, and so on. But I do believe, and I see that I am not suspected of supporting the Government so easily, but I do believe that if a decree has just been adopted in this case just a month and two weeks ago, which includes a series of measures that we had agreed with the Government itself, and that I believe that they are also measures that your group supports, supports or supports, because I believe that it is true that we must give a margin to the rule that is already written and that is already in force to assess whether it is indeed necessary to undertake a more in-depth reform process. We understand that the current regulation basically assumes the postulates that make a balance, that seek a balance, between what is the free market. What I insist is that the free market seems to be always companies that are enriching at the expense of others, and jobs are also being created and taxes are being generated as I mentioned at the beginning of the intervention. This must logically be made compatible with public health, of course, and with the principles of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality. Therefore, what we will do here is, indeed, on this issue, support, obviously conditional and critical support, not a blank cheque, to the Government. And we will logically also monitor the implementation of this decree, of this new regulation which has introduced certain amendments, which has already severely restricted the opening of new premises; in fact, practically what is being done is to significantly reduce the number of licences in Euskadi. And in that sense, we will present, but when a reasonable period of time passes, we will carry out an evaluation, and in that sense, because logically we will also present the parliamentary initiatives that we believe to be appropriate. That is why we, in your case, are going to vote against it, and although we do not usually do so, but we will support in this case the amendment to the whole Government, which, although it says that the Government will follow in this case the implementation of the decree closely and so on, because I do believe that in this case what needs to be done is to monitor the correct implementation of the new decree which is published as I say just six weeks ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u68	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. On the answer shift, Mr Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u69	In my opinion, though we do not agree in intensity, our proposition was a builder, and in this matter, well, in all matters, but especially in this subject, our attitude is always striving to agree on particular things, to speak, to dispute, and that is another. If we probably lived in a personal attitude or an ideal world, we'd probably leave bet houses tomorrow, not all the game, but the type of bets. But the investigations on euscal games, and other investigations, too, produce alarms. And that's why we're still on this subject. And quite agree with these three areas, you, Mr. Atucha, with the three field proposed against ludopathy, the prevention, control, and listening treatment. Baina beste gai bat kanpoan geratzen da, seguroski zaiena eta Eraitz Saez de Egilazek posetu duena, we have a leisure model aimed at compulsive spending, compulsive consumption, which, logically, have it older generations, but which affects especially younger generations, and, therefore, the concern with the theme of the leisure model of mass consumption in the matter of gambling, something very related to betting houses and a socialization model that is also for good or for bad in our culture, because we have to get everyone's hands on it. That is why it is the fourth leg, which is probably the most difficult to deal with, but which is also, in our view, the one we have to deal with. And I thread it with the reference that both you and I believe that the Lord... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... to approach, but that is what we also believe we need to address. And I am referring to the reference that both you and I believe that Mr Gordillo, I do not know whether Mr Prieto, too, has referred to the reference to the lotteries of the State and the ONCE, which we share 100% of what has been raised. The Royal Decree of Advertising of the online game also affects the online game of ONCE and the state lottery, with many resistances as well, many resistances. Not only has it been the private employer, by calling it somehow, the one who has put up resistance. And although it is not up to me to say it or to announce it, action will also be taken in a few days, a few weeks, on the instant lottery game and also on the ONCE. And, therefore, they are going to be steps with many resistances, because as you also know, there are many resistances to this issue. But do a bit of a comparison. It is true, we have here the law of Eucharin, and we have a new decree, and I believe that Mr. Gordillo has said, that some of our proposals are collected in another industrial country, others were excluded; but, for example, I shall speak of the two initiatives made in this autonomy community which are nearest to us, and of another community. Adibidez, Nafarroan, has just presented himself, has just approved the consideration of the proposal for a preliminary law amending the Foral Gambling Law, which has been carried by a government supported by the Socialist Party in Navarre and by Geroa Bai. For example, there is a measurement of the distance of betting venues from educational, health or residential facilities. It's set at 300 meters. Measure that we proposed 500. In Valencia, for example, government supported by the Socialist Party of the Valencia Country, Compromís and United Podemos-Izquierda Unita of the Valencia Country, is proposed, it is approved 850 meters. Ours, which also a little with the analysis we made of the geographical reality of the towns and neighborhoods of Euskadi, were 500 meters. Those 300 metres have been established in Navarra. But there is also one thing that seems to us to be even more important than distance, which is the remote control of access to sports betting machines in bars, which is perhaps, for me and my group, the measure that we miss most in this decree. But, for example, La Rioja has gone a step further. In a proposal for a United Left law agreed with the Socialist Party and passed last week, the installation of sports betting machines in the hotels has been prohibited. All of these three examples I put to you because there are measures that have been taken in other neighbouring communities and in two of them that are very similar to us and ourselves, even on the sporting issue as is Nafarroa and as is La Rioja, and that, therefore, we are sure - and I said so - that these measures will arrive. And let's hope we're not right, but I think we're going to have it, they're going to arrive, and let's hope the next time we also analyze the new data from the Observatory. Then let us reflect and be able to adopt among all groups additional measures, because this is not going to be solved by this decree alone. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u70	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Meet the Representative of the EH team, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u71	Thank you, Chief. Just like that. We think that this rule has produced positive changes, and that it will be measured in some time from here. But as it seems to us, and as Martininius has declared to us that this chance or ambition of taking other measures, is necessary also. But it seems to us also that the young and the young are often placed in play, and that there is something to be said and done in these elements. And it seems to us that we have here a penitent discussion about the model of leisure, which ought to be placed in other areas, in other departments or other spaces, but also because the game seems to us to be rapidly altering all this area of the game. And if we asked what the boys are doing here today, no one would know exactly what opportunity and what dangers are formed in those areas. And seeing that we have a right to examine and examine these inquiries, it seems to us that the exercise of these terms must already begin as soon as possible, if we wish to know beforehand what the scope of our labours will be, or what the danger and opportunity will be in this field. It seems to us, then, that Podemos, in this motion of the present day, has a much more concrete and ambitious thing set up in some way, but he may still be looking forward to the new laws which will come to include all this in the future. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Basque Socialist, Mr Pricee doesn't have to speak. No more patriots, not even Mr. Atucha. Oh, forgive me, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u73	With your permission, I'll be talking to you from the gendarmerie station. Mr Martínez, when I was talking about some of the proposals, of course, being legitimate, but they may not be very constructive, I meant that if they are not taken with proper contrast and seeing what the unwanted effects they may have, which sometimes have them, they may not be all the constructive ones we want. The example was set in that commission in which the Observatory appeared, the example of distances. We close the center, mark distances and the betting houses go to the periphery, with a social reality, a demographic reality, a totally different economic reality. That's what I meant. I mean, sometimes 100 meters, 200 meters are very important. And the Government has taken these issues into account when making its decree. We and we continue to bet on legal game, co-responsible game, ordered game. I'm just gonna... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... these issues. We and we continue to bet on legal game, responsible game, ordered game. I will simply remind you of another fact that has been given to us: the central government in 10 years has closed 1,500 pages of illegal gambling. Illegal. That is why we have to... maintain a certain balance between the measures that are imposed and the possible effects - let us say so - of those measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u74	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans must not take his word. [[Pause]] End of discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos-Nozzer and EH Collection corrections that have signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters 27; the opponents of the enemy, 45; abstaining, 0; white, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u75	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eucabertians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 70; 72; the supporters of 45; the opponents of the enemy, 0; abstaining, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u76	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced by Jason Aguirre Garitagondia members of the EHGGG, about the projects of the new language's economy. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Your turn, Mrs. Aguirre, is to make an initiative and defend it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. He's running. In about three hours' time Amurion will begin at half-past four, and ten days from the whole of the Basque Country, he will march here and there without interruption. He'll keep our legs running, but above all he'll fill our mouths. Tomorrow, she'll be passing by the Gasteiz tonight, and she'll be beautiful, moving... I think it's going to be beautiful, touching as usual, but this year it's very... a little more, the pandems were two years ago, and he stole it from us two years ago. This congress will also have its subways, our president will take the witness, and we'll meet a few of us there. I don't know if Mr. Faraway will be encouraging this year, as before, but Mr. Barrio has also left, and the last time I saw Garrido. The Socialist Group, Alonso? Yeah? He says yes. It must be Mr. Alonso. And together from Podemos, I don't know, perhaps Angulo, who is Gastei.... I don't know, he's in doubt. Well, we'll be grateful if we see you there. As for us, he's going to Maddalen, who's ready to dress his slippers, and, well, there's a lot of us there. It is beautiful to see the friends of different thoughts together on the side of the eucalyptus. Our language will be common, or else it will not be. That's what runs beautiful. But it hasn't always been that way. I remember the time he was censored in EITB running. A town was on its way, and our public media was extinguished by the screens. But this wave was too large to avoid, and at last the season authorities had to admit that it was too large and too beautiful to look at one another. This is called an emotional mind, or a political intelligence. Now, again, we must also have some other kind of intelligence: now we must also have artificial intelligence. Because we've seen a language that doesn't want to survive, it must also be used to survive. And I'd appreciate it if I didn't hear that language... Well, thank you, or I'm disappointed. Yeah? There are many kinds of talking people, we are now, each of us has a lot of influence on it. It is not the same with a small Esscal people, or from a great and legendary city. The network of language has hitherto been placed in this direction, according to those who have been expert in sozylinguisticisms. But at the present time, these experts also say, the network of communications spread into a digital environment, and we move from one to the other. And if the cradle, like any other language, isn't properly installed on new technology, then it can't survive the digital environment... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... as any other language, if it does not properly fit in new technology, it will hardly survive this digital environment. And that's how you get the Basque Advisions on behalf of the Digital Environment recommendations. If the Basque is not in the digital world, there will be no eucature. In Europe, too, they have taken possession of it, and have been working long enough to deal with and adapt the changes to the language which digitalizes. And so are we. And that's what this initiative is about today. And we know that he's aware of it, too, and he's doing the same thing as we told Mr. Zupiria in the interpez. Now we have just received a statement from the Cultural Committee that on Tuesday they have passed through the Government Council and introduced Language Technology to 2021-2024; and to explain its whereabouts. We can hear it long and solid, or deep, and we'll be listening. That's how he explained it to us the other day, for instance at the Cultural Committee, the Foreign Agenda of 2021-2024. In it, the advice made by the advice of the Basque Council takes a part in the artificial intelligence. On the one hand, the Advisory Committee says it's essential to continue to develop eucharistic technology because it's the strategic axis in Europe for years. And on the other hand, the Basque Advisor advises to determine and write a plan of technology. He's doing his hiccuping, but our concern increased when we saw that the name of the next generation was not directed to it. It wasn't mentioned in what you call "brogious" or "fucking-ass-ass-assed" by Rede-Ser-Serge-Serk. And we know without money what's going on. We don't even know what it's going to be used to a little funding from the state PERT. Except for some specific projects, we haven't seen a strong planing strategy, and that's what Euscara's advice advice demands. A economy connected with the language is also an opportunity to give strong steps. And that's why today's initiative. And that's why we're happy with the agreement we've made, because this is the time to make strong progress. We're happy. First of all, because we've agreed to the projects that are today, because if there are any. More than this, they will join in a solid and planned strategy, and the necessary resources and investments will be redressed. On the other hand, we believe it will be of the greatest importance to say that in languages two euphorcal companies, like Elhuyar or Vicomtich, will be the work of the intermediary, a companion. And finally, the part that the Spanish Minister's Council, connected with language, has accepted on a month's day, we have agreed to ask him to look at the new economy of language, to make use of it after it. The improvement of the artificial intelligence, science, and culture, by means of projects to promote the use of support. Of the 1.100 billion of that state, they will be directed to the officers of 30 languages, which is only %2.7. That's why they're going to use the next generation fund together with private investment. That PERTE project has a pure purpose, an artificial intelligence thinking in Spanish, and of course speaking. But with this they will fortify Spain, science, the teaching of Spanish, and other fields. Even though he's the third person in the world. it is language, and though it be not a great anxiety to disappear, the Spaniards have taken it for a popular initiative. And we call it well, because all languages have the right to subsist, and the right to economical development. All languages and of course ours have a right to survive, even to economic development. Ours must also be a nation initiative. Even ours, we believe, must be a popular initiative. As it is today, with the mutual agreement of the different ones. Languages are our own and any other strategic for economy. I mean, these are important economic sectors, where we live the digital transition that will offer a lot of possibilities. So, I'd like to thank you, Mrs. Guruga, Mr. Alonso, and Mr. Alonsus, your honesty in agreement. If anything joins us and brings us on, it's our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Arbulus. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u79	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, good morning, everyone. I think I'll be in Korrika, I still have to do that part, because it's 8:00. But, well, I guess so, I've been in a few and I'll keep going because I'm having a really good time. The language of Europe is translation. This was expressed by Umberto Eco in 1993, as noted by the Council of Europe in a resolution of 2008 which encouraged the development of language technology, firstly by encouraging cooperation between the Commission, Member States, local authorities, research bodies and industry. Secondly, by ensuring convergence between research, identification, areas of application and deployment of technology in all languages of the European Union. I think the agreement we've reached fits very well... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... identification, areas of application and deployment of technology in all languages of the European Union. I believe that the agreement we have reached is very much in line with this resolution because it covers all these areas. In recent decades, technology has reached a dizzying speed. Today, thanks to technology, we are able to do things that until recently seemed unthinkable. Metaverse, augmented reality, virtual reality are expressions that are already used quite naturally, especially among the younger ones. And as for the use of languages, what we, people, find frankly natural, which is speech, for machines is something very difficult, due to the amount of unstructured data, the lack of formal rules, the absence of context or interaction. And although progress has led to important changes, including voice assistants, translation and automatic subtitles, there is still a long way to go. Siri, Alexa, Cortana or Bixby do not have euskera among their languages. And one of the fastest ways to communicate with a computer or machine, a device, because it doesn't have to be a computer, there are also machines, it's through voice commands. In this way it is not necessary to use the keyboard, mouse or touch screen for the machines and devices to understand what we tell them and for them to answer us autonomously with a certain voice. When talking about voice-related technologies and their impact on the industry, mention should be made of natural language processing, virtual assistants and voice chats. This is an artificial intelligence field. There are thousands of assistants who carry out very specific tasks. And what are we talking about? We are talking about the generation of natural language, of equipping machines with the ability to create a new language similar to the human being. We are also talking about the recovery of information that is responsible for processing texts and documents and recovering specific parts of them. We are talking about recognizing speech, human voice recognition systems, and transforming them into texts or transforming them into voice, which would be the synthesis of speech, we are talking about machine translation. We are also talking about summary and classification of texts; also collecting the keywords that we tell the machine it has to collect and from this part they make, machines make, their own summaries, creating grey text. We're also talking about spam detection. And the last thing that is being worked on is the detection of feelings and emotions; this is one of the most innovative uses that is being given in marketing and is also being applied to politics, in the polarization that is being given as social trends are also being studied. To do all this work, it is necessary to put huge amounts of data, huge amounts, billions of gigas and billions of sentences, phrases, text, oral and written to giant computers that occupy, let us say, the space of this whole Parliament. Developing this technology has a very high economic cost. And, of course, progress is usually faster in the world's most important languages, these are English and Chinese. In this way, there is a great language that by its economic power dominates all others, to the extent that many of these other languages, if they do not adapt to these future realities, are in danger of disappearing. MetaNet noted that in 2012 it carried out a study by experts in language technology that warns that most European languages, including Basque, are unlikely to survive in the digital age. This report placed the Basque woman in a weak position. We're talking about 2012, huh. There have been quite a few changes and much progress has been made in artificial intelligence since then. In the words of the European Union, languages without sufficient technological support will be marginalized and threatened by the (estition?) digital. Because both language... both in language and in society the richest societies are imposed on languages with less speakers, and in an increasingly homogeneous world this linguistic domination implies the disappearance of less spoken languages. And, of course, not everyone benefits equally from these advances. In the world there are 6,000 languages, 1,200 of which have a standard written code, and there will finally be about 100 that have room for artificial intelligence. Fortunately, Basque is one of these languages. And we should create our own models and resources both for ourselves and for other languages that are in a worse situation, because we also need to talk about solidarity in terms of languages. Moreover, we must be aware that the euskera will hardly achieve anything by copying other models and other modes and other dominant languages. Euskera is a pre-Romanic language, it is cumulative and has to create its own modes. It is the most advanced societies that also, through technology, establish and impose their language, their idiosyncrasy and their conceptions. Through the PERTE a beautiful window opens to respond to the digital challenge of languages. But it has to be said that as far as the co-official languages of the State are concerned, more than a window, what has been opened is a window, because, of course, it gives Catalan, Galician and Basque 30 million of the 1,100 in which it is going to be invested, because it seems to us rather scarce, especially if we take into account that in these languages, unlike the Spanish language, almost everything is to be done in the field of digitisation. It is therefore clear that public institutions should allocate more funds to co-official languages. Over the past few years, work has been done. We don't start from scratch. We are aware that we come with a work done so that today we have a good position within the ecosystem of the economy of the language, since the Basque Country is located in an area with multiple technological infrastructures, research center and experts, just as happens in Catalonia. And the aid from PERTE should guarantee this research and this collaboration between the different peoples. The Euskera will receive part of these grants. And it is paradoxical that the oldest language in Europe has at its disposal the most modern technological resources to meet the needs of society in the future. It's imperative... It is impressive and spectacular the effort that euskera has made over the centuries to stay alive, and particularly in the last 50 years since we created... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... is impressive and spectacular the effort that euskera has made over the centuries to stay alive, and particularly in the last 50 years since we created the euskera beats by reinventing itself. In other words, the euskera is fully capable of facing the challenges of the new technology, and even if in the past it lost other revolutions, this revolution cannot be lost, it is vital for its survival, and we therefore urge us to take advantage of artificial intelligence to promote and update the euskera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u80	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President, good morning again, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. We agree on a lot of things. I agree that we must support the Basque, of course, that without any doubt, and I also agree that it unites us, the language is a thing that unites, it is a language, and fortunately we are joined by the languages, because we have two, we are bilingual as a country and as... and officially, and we are joined by the languages, that is, that we agree that, in fact, any stimulus, any impulse or any project there is to... In this case, in the context of this new economy, this PERTE, within the framework of languages, we are going to take advantage of it. Therefore, when I saw the initiative, because it was fine, but it lacked something, it lacks something because here we have to work to support the Basque, but we can also work to support the Spanish in the private public collaboration in relation to the companies of new technologies, with the companies of digital transformation, against those companies. There will also be Basque companies that operate in Spanish in these new... enrichment of the digital and the new technologies, that is, that I in that sense, I think we had to put both, indeed, and that is why it has been quite easy to amend this motion, because I have only had to put Castilian next to the Basque, and that it is the efforts that the Administration makes either with the two, or with the two, because we are talking about this private public collaboration, and I say again, it has been easy to amend this motion, we have simply added up the possibilities of attracting more resources from PERTE and involving more companies. We speak within the framework of that strategy of a language economy because..., and we are a society with two official languages, bilingual, that is, we have to take advantage of all possibilities in relation to something that enriches us, that, two official languages, we have that fortune. And if both languages can be a source of economic resources, better, because it is quite clear that Basque can be a source of economic resources that attract these European state strategies, but also the Spanish one for our Basque companies that operate here, right? We are talking about economic resources that can benefit us, and if companies have a larger field with bilingualism, then better, but with the two languages, that is, that I think there should have been... I also miss it in the compromise amendment they have signed, because also in this new language economy the Spanish will work, and it will work in Basque companies in relation to new technologies. Without going any further, there's gonna be... Soon a university will be operational where new technologies are a key element of its operation, and it will operate in Basque, Spanish and English, and they are expressions, and it is a private university, that is, that I believe that all this world that works around the languages, and in this case of the two that we have as officers, has to be covered and benefited by the attitude of the Government, of the department of Mr. Zupiria, or of the department of Mrs. Tapia, where appropriate, in relation to the technologies and the official language that it uses. We are not, of course, going to waste money, if what we have to support is our companies in digital technology or artificial intelligence in Spanish, we are not going to waste it, because we are saying this, we can say that this is what I have done in this amendment, why should we forget about the Spanish in a comprehensive strategy on language, on a Spanish strategy, in this case, on language, Spanish and co-official languages, because we cannot forget it here either, because it can be a source of resources for us, and we would also like to urge the keys, as you have drafted your motion, but also to support the Basque Government in the strategy to do two sub-strategies, so to speak, that of the Castilian and Basque also in the collaboration that we are going to have in the private sector, right? I believe that the fundamental thing is that, that this is going to be subsidized, there are a number of resources, there will be more, we will be seeing, we will see what is effective, we will see the companies that can benefit from them, but we want that public collaboration with the private sector that so much defends my parliamentary group, we have to do it in the two strategies, in the two keys of the companies that work in digital technology, in digital transformation, in artificial intelligence, or in so many other things. And that is why I miss the fact that Spanish is also part of the government's action for the benefit of these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u82	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u83	I should like to thank Mrs. Aguirre for bringing such an interesting discussion as we are talking about today. I must confess that I'm still arranging my ideas on cardboard records and that I have two or three dictionaries on my desk... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... for the sake of the carriage. I must confess that I still arrange my ideas on cardboard records and that I have two or three dictionaries on my desk, paper dictionaries. It was a great challenge to an analogic person like me to prepare this discussion. We can define Marsal Gavaldà's words, language technology, as if computers understood human language as a set of knowledge that allows programming. To convert worthy sounds that we raise, the mere changes of the air into a sequence of words that will form a written text. Let a machine identify it, arrange it, and then find out what's even more wonderful. Knowledge will mark the difference between the extreme nations and those who follow nations in years. And if knowledge is essential, still more languages, which are the only instrument we can transmit our knowledge for generations. (... ) To any learning chamber in our colleges, whether written or digitally supported, language is the only way we can maintain our knowledge and make it rich. And now knowledge and its development play in a digital area. Hence the treatment of language is in the centre of digitalization and of new technology, and especially of artificial intelligence. Our machines must also think of euphoria. This is the guarantee of our culture, our language of inheritance, the perfect equilibrium between our personality and the whole digital environment. Language is not just a factor for communication and economic activity and technology: it is also the basis for transmitting our democratic values. And therefore it is essential that the Administration should be protected from the letter of digital rights, by the protection of individual and collective rights, of commerce, of socialization? ), and the policy that removes all obstacles, protect it. As I said, therefore, language is not only a factor of communication and economic and technological activity, it also serves as a basis for the transmission of our democratic values. It is therefore essential for the Administration to ensure, in line with the Charter of Digital Rights, the protection of individual and collective rights, equal treatment, social inclusion and the elimination of all forms of bias. Let us not transfer to the machines that which we have fought so much in recent years. Because the language, as we have said a thousand times in speaking of our own in this very room, is the bearer of our culture, our identity, our way of being and feeling in this world. But it can also be a tool for spreading hatred and eroding the values that define us as a society. The German philologist Victor Klemperer warned us of the hard experience he had experienced as a Jew in Nazi Germany. Their conclusion is a lesson that we can never forget: when the individual gives up thinking for himself, he ends up adopting words that they intend to put. Klemperer did not come to live to know the great technological revolution in which we are immersed, but I am convinced that today he would also warn us of the great risk of giving up thinking and delegating such healthy exercise to a machine. On the other hand, the new economy of language demands a strong bet to identify the whole string of values and to exploit them, to introduce our languages into this future sector. But that challenge won't be new to the Esscal economic sector. In the last few years, the company in the same department has developed a lot of klusters to unite all the companies of the same kind of value, taking advantage of the latest syndicate of that co-workergy. And in this rapid recapitulation of the leading challenges, we cannot forget the importance of the traculation of public administrations. I'm happy to hear it from the push that started at President Patxi López's time, he's in the digital administration among the most advanced governments. It is necessary, of course, that all the citizens of Esscal remain deep in a digital environment, respecting the rights which are to communicate with their Administration in both our languages. The management of the administration is extremely important to encourage the economy and technology of language, support and development. Besides, we can't forget it's a very indirect matter. This challenge concerns every department of the Government: Language, Economic development, Elegua, Work, Turism, Commerce, Constuna, Equality, Society, &c. This challenge must be its effect upon the whole government, and requires a strong engagement. We're sure that the Basque Socialists have already affected all departments. I end with one last thought. The new technological challenges are going to require a firm public commitment and an impetus capable of launching an economic sector linked to the language, a sector of vital importance because it is in that scenario that the new geopolitical board is going to be redesigned today. But in Euskadi we have a lot already done, we have a great accumulated capital and a society that looks to the future with ambition, but that refuses to renounce its values, its culture and its identity. It is therefore of vital importance that the new digital environment guarantee access to all citizens. The digital divide can be one of the biggest pitfalls we have to face as a society in the coming years. Like so many other elements that are moving and that set in motion the tectonic plates of our economy and our society, we cannot look elsewhere and let it be the sacrosanct market that decides for all of us and all of us. It is up to this House, as a representative of the citizenry, to ensure that in this new digital world that is presented to us all people have the same opportunities and that no one feels discriminated against or excluded. The compromise that we have achieved today between the Basque Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group, the EH Bildu Group and the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita Group lay the basis for this compromise. In conclusion, I would like to thank Mrs Gurutxaga of the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Agirre of EH Bildu and Mr Angulo of Elkarrekin. We can see your commitment and your firm will to agree from the very first moment we have started working on this issue. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u84	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Ma'am, the word is yours. [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. First, I would like to emphasize the agreement before I begin anything. I believe in interpelation, as well as the chief department and Mrs. Aguirre spoke to the same tune, and from our group, together with our Socialists, we've been trying to find out the agreements we had to make for them-and that tone. And it's true that it was easy to make a deal, and I'd like to thank Mrs. Aguirre especially, because it was easy and that's what it was. It is true, and plunged in this digital world, that the world has become digital, and that we have found important challenges, and nothing to say to a shorter language like ours. But I'm always optimistic, and I feel like we have to make these challenges a choice, and look at our choices. 'It seems to me that even the digital world offers us a chance to make a great small one, and that's what we need to believe in.' I agree with an idea said by Mrs. Aguirre, because today there is not only the language that makes us dance our tongues, or the language that makes us euphony, as we are now in contact with the digital world, as with machines, and among us, it has taken an enormous importance; and we must hold it to that. And with that, Mr. Angulo said, "No podemos copiir a nadie, huh?" I'm going to eucalyptus. And I hold it a little, and as I often mention it, I think we ought to speak proudly of the progress of our language, and that the Basques have shown us the chances, and that we have the ability to make use of them without copying them to any one, the positive change a broken language can make. And I think many other smaller languages look at us, and we must also express it with pride, and use that pride to reach the hinges we've been looking forward to. And today is one of those challenges too, and I feel like we have to do it positively. The importance of this challenge cannot be resisted, and there is nothing to be seen but the wager made by the most advanced countries, and by those who have the influence of the use of their language. Spain has put in 1,100 million euros of the economy of language which it has recently accepted, por lo que, señor Barri, puede estarde tramlo de va a haber fandos para ello. I think that once more we shall have to make some effort to believe that this system must also be maintained, and that's why we're here today. He's talked about strategy and leadership, and I feel like the chief physician made it clear that there's a strategy here and that there's a leader who's showing a joke about it. I'm not going to get all the facts she said, I'm not going to make the plans again, but I think it's important to mention the Basque Advice Board that Mrs. Aguirre's got it. And it's important to talk about this report that was being published in the digital environment. This report was given to this plan of language technology, and, as the chief physician said, the plan is included in that 2025 Euskadian Digital Transform. So we believe that there are projects and strategys, and that the chief physician showed us the words, and the agreement we are going to close today leads us to strengthen it at the first point: Let him continue to build up and develop and develop the strategies of integration with technological languages. And we think that's the way it's going to be. At the same time, we understand that these plans must also be living, because the digital world is something rapid and living, which is constantly changing, and that such plans must leave the doors open for the moment to offer and confront the new actions of the moment. And one of the other teams mentioned was that co-worker in the intercommunications, and with that we're talking about doing it with the sector as leader, and that's what we're talking about here. The means have also been discussed, and we have received that the necessary means must be placed. We'll see what resources are determined by the head physician when he comes to the legislature and explains the nature of the plan. And that's what we're doing for. And finally, as far as we're concerned about PERTEs, we don't know how they're going to part yet, but as the chief physician mentioned, he's been waiting for that and finding ways to face it. So that's all, just put the value back on the deal. I think that's a good way to do it, and I think it's a legal agreement today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. Passing the answers, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u87	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Barrio, we can't take any correction from you, because you've put two languages together, young men and eucalyptus. First of all, a language that talks about 600 million and does not even come to millions. A language of quite hegemony in this country, and a language wholly dependent on the other side, which is diminished. A language that will receive 1,100 million euros from PERTE, and a language that will have to divide from it 30 million with two other languages. You've only been missing to make a run for the Spanish Ja. You yourself have caricatured your position, your political obsession. Then I think there's nothing else to say about it. On the other hand, with a grateful agreement, I think it's a good step, a steady step in the right direction, a step in the direction drawn by the Basque Counsellation Committee... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... I believe it is a good step, a strong step in the right direction, a step in the direction drawn by the Basque Advice. It's very important what we've agreed today, because it's asking you for a schedule, and also that you'll be asking for an investment of resources and resources. We'll look after this as a close, and with great interest and care, because it's extremely important for the survival of our language. As I said, it's either eucalyp or it's in a digital environment, or it won't be. It warns us by the necessity of making a leap, both by running and Euscharation, by the leap from knowledge to use, and I believe that this agreement to-day is in this way, because in the digital world it must be a language for use, as I have said, to survive. So today, between these four great high walls, and tomorrow in the street, running, we'll go for this −, who'll join us all more. In words, as the phrase runs, but not only with words, but also with actions. So, thank you. And I wait to see you all running tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together, Poedemus. Gustavo, from there, yes. Mr. Angulo from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u89	Yeah. With your permission, Madam President, nothing, without more than thanking Mrs Agirre, Mrs Gurutxaga and Mr Alonso for having been able to arrive at this transaction, because when she started, when Mrs Aguirre asked Mr Aguirre, she did not know very well what this was about the economy of the language. I have to show my ignorance. And little by little, reading small texts, I realized how important it is. And I think that the agreement we have reached today is quite important, because, obviously if the Basque is not in the digital media - the digital media, the digital spaces, I'm going to talk about virtuals, they're going to occupy everything in the coming years - it's about to disappear. And I am very pleased that Mrs Agirre has brought this debate to the Chamber, to the plenary, and I have faced a small challenge that I do not know if I have just understood, because it weaves what artificial intelligence and models are. But, well, thank you, too, anyway, for bringing the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u90	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. The representative of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadnos, Mr. Barri, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u91	Yeah. Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. I too share the importance of this debate, which I also thank Mrs Agirre for bringing it, as well as so many other debates that are being brought to this House. It's clear you said I tried to ridicule something. No, no, No, he said don't be ridiculous. No, no, I value him. And when you've connected him to Korrika, I've been to Korrika, I've gone to Korrika, and I've gone many times, and I'll go whenever I can and I've been very comfortable. And the truth is, I aim every time I can. I don't know. Alberto Núñez Feijoo called me to Seville. I don't think I'll be able to be here tomorrow or the day before, but the same as next week. But I'll try. I want to say, in conclusion, that we are talking about the strategic project of the new language economy, which is defined very well by the project itself, the plan itself. It's very well-defined. And I want to take advantage of that strategic project as well, of course for the Basque, for the most part, but also for the Castilian. Because there are companies of new technologies, of artificial intelligence, of the virtual in this country that work, they also have projects in those keys in Spanish. That is to say, it seems very good to me, that is why I have also missed alluding to these companies, because these companies also have to benefit from the action of the Government or the Administrations, from the funds available to them under that plan and to be granted to the management of the autonomous communities if that is the case. That is why the proposals in Spanish are not excluded in this respect, but that the proposals in Basque are, of course, encouraged. That is why I myself have made the amendment. It is clear that what he wanted was to put the two official languages of this country within the strategy proposed by the Government's plan. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u92	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Alonso mustn't talk either. So, after the discussion, we'll go to the vote. EH Collect, together with Podemos-Nokerkikes, Eukal Socialists and Eucabertarians, we vote for the middle-line correction that has been signed. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; the votes are 68; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 0,0; abstentions, 4; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-03-31.u93	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two o'clock in the afternoon, and nine o'clock.
