ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the Gorgan guruga of the Marials, a member of the Uurga Euga patriots, made of Cultura and the head of the political department of Language, the new plan of promoting the Basque Act." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning to all. Mr. Zupiria, at the end of today's running questions, I will begin with the words Carmele was born: "At the time when civilization strengthens, let us make a collective eulogy between us and all. And let's believe it's not something we've got, it's something we're doing." We of Eucabertists, it is clear that the eucharist makes us euphorium; that is to say, we are eloquent. It expresses a character, a way of understanding each other and living together. This naturally excludes no one, on the contrary, it requires the insistence of the most agreeable knowledge to extend itself to more and more people, in order that they may become more and more and more general together, and that they may be the collective one that is capable of mutual support. We know that's not an easy task. It is the course which we must perform in a positive manner, in an attractive manner, and in harmony. Hence, the fineness of the support, not only knowledge, but also the use of it, must be secured. Knowledge and use are both to be confirmed, because knowledge enrichs the view of the world, and the use strengthens the collective value of language. It's gonna be 10 years this year in Basque Suscan Plan, and it's gonna end up with him. And as it is defined in the government program of this legislation, it belongs to your division to make the evaluation of the Plan, the new planning that will determine the language for the next time. So, chief physician, we'd like to know what steps they've taken along that road and what predictions you're making to get this plan started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Hugueg. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u3	Congressman, President, members of the legislature, fellow governments, Mrs. Guruga, good morning to all. And in 2013, it was confirmed under the presidential presidency of the Barkullus. At that very moment, this Basque parliament did it. The ESEP, which began in 2012, and had a view between 2022, has been founded on this plan for ten years in our community, the policies of languages which have been developed by land and organization. Thought was the result of a long process, and the fruit of a broad understanding. He defined three strategic goals: the nourishment of euphoria, of euphora, and of euphora. And he fixed a line across 13: transmission by family teaching, teaching, euccatation, administration, geographical places, sociatory, sports, books, culture, advertising, corpus planning, media and communications. The euscal institutions have been around those axes agreed on in 2012. Now it's time for us to evacuate what we've done and fix the foundations for ten years to come. The commitment is in our government program, and in the Basque Advisor Council we've created a section of the ESEP re-opening committee. We've made a team of people who have different views and opinions. They have different opinions, but they have the same motive: to promote knowledge, use, and prestige, and to guarantee the rights of popular language, or rather in a environment more eloquent and more eloquent. Besides this permanent work, the voices of the external agents will also gather in the process of time. And as for the calendar, it will be in two stages: In 2022 the strategic section will be performed, and in 2023 the operational section. The main purpose of this process is to reflect on the language around politics and define the main frame to be the effective, realistic, coordinated language for the following years. The Euskar theme is a matter that occasionally appears and vanishes in our country, which is the river Guadiana. It is also good to talk about the eucalyptic, even when it is committed in critical voices. Let the criticism be welcome if it is from the responsibility and attachment of the euchar. Let him welcome forward if he proposes new steps and new measures. I think most of us here have that builder plan. I believe that most of us who are here wish to give new means to the Basques, to keep the language euscal, as it is the instrument for communication, in order that it may be more and more effective. And I'm sure most of the people here agree with the guarantee of our language. We've been listening to it over and over and over, from here and there, that new language policies must be fixed for years to come. Others also have said that we must have a sort of tacit agreement, which we have obtained in education, in relation to the promotion of the eucalyptus. Well, let's do it. We have a job to do and we have a job to work with. We need to renew the Euskara Suscan action that will take place for the next ten years. The Basque Advice Committee offers us a center of discussion and reflection for that. The representatives of the people and of the society are represented, as well as the representatives of eucalyptic and euccating. Let's do... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... it offers. The representatives of the people and of the society are represented, as well as the representatives of eucalyptic and euccating. Let's do it. Let's discuss it and agree to continue the means of promoting it for the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which was made by the Congressman of the Maddalen Irina Presidency to the President, the balance of the law." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. It is but a month to reach the middle of the law, if the President decides only, and we have thought it a proper distance of balance from that which gives us the most remarkable uneasiness. That's why today's question, Mr. Urkullu: If this government can continue to do policy which weakens the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. And good morning, Mrs. Irriart. He's built them and developed them, and he's going on developing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u9	Thank you again, Mr. Urkullu. It seems to me that this government is not learning the time to read, that it is not time for American measures, that we must spend ten years with a minimum of eyes on all organic matters. We are experiencing a change of ages, and we are under the influence of several of the important variables which affect our outward influence, and the decisions of the deep are indispensable. And now it must be taken, if they are strong within ten years, because alterations require time, and time is what we have not. Datorren urteko aurrekontuen zuzentarauak aurkeztu berri ditu Gobernuak, eta honela gave atal batan: "It is not advisable to employ the increases in public income or the borrowing potential that have a cyclical nature and are linked to the growth of the economy to increase current public spending of a structural nature". In an inflationary context, if current public spending is not increased, it is not only not growing, but also decreasing public services. Eta guztia gallera batan dago: hazi egin behar du sektore publiko estrukturalak? Should the structural public sector grow? We've been under the doctrine of "no" for a decade. Atzerantz Egypt Arloak Arloak Ahaztu Gabe Arloak Arloak Arloak Arloak Ahaztu Gabe Arloak Arloak Arlok. Gizarte zerbitzuak pribatizatezeak system publikoa ahultzen du. Osakidetza pribatizatezeak edo medikuak ez ordezkatzeak, edo prekarizatezeak, zerbitzu publikoa ahultzen du. Eskola txikiak ixteak zerbitzu publikoa ahultzen du. We are facing a totally unstable situation, in front of a change of time, and it's a postponement of inertia. To receive simple palial measures is to retreat. To emphasize stability and constancy, as you have done when you present the rules, is not an option; To be and to live is to retire. We must leap like a nation, ambitious, I should say as a state. This country needs a peace to ensure its welfare, this people needs a settlement in my neurotic transition, digitalization, demography... It's just said, in English... in health, in education, in equality, in care... We have to look after this town. We need to guarantee the welfare of the community. And to guarantee our welfare, we must be able to determine. Everything, even our future. And in many respects, you have not reached many of these matters, and have dragged us into others. When this balance is done, Mr. Urkullu, I would like to put two accounts in value: On the one hand, the budget deal is to keep moving, and around the SMI, whose government is releasing, for example, to be brave at this period of inflation. I'd like to remark that reflection on a new prosecution that has been left outside of this agreement is also necessary. The world is in it, at least the countries around us, and it is essential to answer our hinges because magic does not exist. And in this balance I would remark the arrangement of education; I have mentioned it a thousand times, and have remarked it. I think we've had the ability to make a town deal, because we know how to make it. So, as a people, we need ambition and a leap. You have to go up thermometer of the neighborhood so they won't tell you that you'd rather not have any friends living in the neighborhood (amak? ) is more than it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm wondering if you're going to continue to do politics that's weakening the public sector. And I think your question starts from a wrong premise. I'm not talking about the politics that's weakening the public sector. You're reading about the moment, and I have to tell you about it. by developing the budget we accepted, we strengthen public services. We've had at least two meetings with your team, and we've had other things, as you said. We are therefore fulfilling commitments in all agreed ways: Membership, education system, bordering, beautiful societies have hitherto been in the level of the challenge they've had. And this is confirmed by the results obtained. I think I'm talking about balances (dancing you? ), and, for instance, to balance the community which has the best public health in the state. And this is not my opinion, which is the result of the annual report of the Public Health Defence Federation. The poverty of the European Union is one of the slightest rate. The community, which has the least rate of unemployment in the state, is maintained, and we have more persons at work than ever, and co-ordinated in Social Security. And this is not only from the public sector, but because we are co-working public services and public politics, and pushing them out of the institutions. The budgets for the year 2022 were approved with an agreement with your group, Mrs Iriarte, and represent a 50% increase in public investment, and 8 out of 10 euros are allocated to social expenditure. This budget has meant strengthening the public sector: health, education and protection... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... Public investment, and 8 out of 10 euros are allocated to social expenditure. This budget has meant strengthening the public sector: health, education and social protection have more public resources than ever before. We dedicated in 2022 the largest budget in the history of Education: 3,235 million euros, 126 million more than the previous year, and to Health, 4,382 million, 198 more than the previous year. More public budget is more public sector and concerted incentive in public policies. The commitments agreed with his group are being fulfilled, and in particular paragraph B.1, an increase of EUR 30 million to the Osakidetza programme contract, in order to continue the implementation and improvement of the health care strategy. I remind you that it has been in force since 2019, and I repeat, continue with the improvement of primary care in Osakidetza, that is, strengthening the public health sector. Anyway, we don't agree. From the reading of the moment, we have the scopes to improve, as well as the need to modify and reform. I'll mention the strategies we're developing by accelerated co-working: a demographic challenge, a digitalization of the economy, a challenge of environment and energy, innovation, education agreement, a housing. The social strategy... We are ignorant of uncertainty and difficulties, but in answer to these challenges of nations I have mentioned, stability, conversation, and agreement are indispensable wills. We'll continue to discuss and expand this path like public policies, both by pushing cooperation through public sectors and public budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the Basque Socialists of the United States are descended from the House of Tourism, Commerce, and Constunam, to the chief physician of Tourism, Commerce, and Contsumus recently made to Germany about the results of the productive proscration and visitation to Germany." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u13	Thank you, President, good morning, counselor. Tourism is an economic activity that is regulated in Euskadi by the Tourism Act 2016. And this law determines that the Tourist Administration in Euskadi will promote the specialization of the tourist offer, prioritizing, among others, industrial tourism. And in 2018 also a socialist advisor proposed a plan, a comprehensive project for industrial tourism in Euskadi, which had three objectives at the time: the first was to coordinate and shape the work being carried out by associations, foundations and even the Administration itself in terms of the protection of industrial heritage in Euskadi; the second was to value the heritage resources and industrial memory of Euskadi, and the third was to claim the Basque industrial tradition as an element of interest and vertebrator of the tourist offer in Euskadi. The first International Industrial Tourism Week was held in Euskadi, which led in turn to the creation of the Basque Industrial Resources Network, and allowed us to join the European Industrial Heritage Network, which is a cultural network that is also recognized by the Council of Europe, and which issues a series of certifications that links not only the interest of some places, of some locations, the industrial interest with the tourist offer of those places themselves. And it is not by chance that Euskadi is the Spanish Autonomous Community with the highest number of such certifications, of those (?), as places of exceptional relevance for the industrial history that are linked with the innovative experience and the quality offer that arises in the tourist offerings of these three places. Those three. they are the Museum of the Encartada Factory in Balmaseda, the Railway Museum in Azpeitia, and the Salad Valley of Añana. And you have just returned from an institutional visit to Germany, specifically to the Ruhr basin, a very cutting-edge area in the development of resources linked to industrial tourism. And that is why the Basque Socialists wanted to ask you, counselor, what is your assessment of that trip, of that institutional visit, and what results for Euskadi that visit will have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko, Mrs. Corcuera. Indeed, we have just returned from a prospecting trip to Germany in the field of industrial tourism, where I have held meetings with representatives of the most outstanding resources and industrial routes. We were able to see at first hand how they have carried out the process of industrial transformation in a region similar to Euskadi in its evolution, as is the Ruhr basin, and we have exchanged experience in management and coordination in this area. The commitment of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption for industrial tourism materialized in 2018 with the realization of the Industrial Tourism Plan that we have been developing until we became the leading Autonomous Community. We already have a network that has put in value 34 usable resources. This bet arose from a conviction and with a clear objective. The conviction that we should preserve our industrial legacy as that part of our history, without which we could not understand today's Euskadi: a plural, heterogeneous, modern and innovative Euskadi, with great traditions and an economic and cultural development that accelerated with industrialization. Our goal was to keep that memory alive and active through the development of industrial tourism. It is a question of making institutions and citizens aware of our history and its value, but also as a tractor of visitors and strengthening our sustainable tourism strategy, as it contributes to the deseasonalization and distribution of visitor flows to areas with less tourist tradition. In Germany we have been able to see the economic impact it has on the local development of its managers, with strategies very similar to those we are implementing in Euskadi, and which are undoubtedly key to the development of many regions. And an important conclusion that we have shared is that this is only possible with the investment effort of the institutions, associations and actors involved, and that we also need to be able to show the true scope of these investments to all citizens. The feeling of pride and belonging to this working history is very present in experiences such as that of the Ruhr, and is fundamental in implementing policies of impulse. Therefore, the aim of the exploration trip to Germany in the field of industrial tourism has been to deepen... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... and is essential in implementing impulse policies. Therefore, the aim of the exploration trip to Germany in the field of industrial tourism has been to deepen the experiences and good practices of leading regions and to exchange our experience with them. And it has also been key to holding various meetings with resource managers and members of the European Industrial Heritage Network, ERIH, which, as you have said, is recognised by the Council of Europe as a European Cultural Network with a key weight in the industrial history of our continent. In this regard, I am pleased to announce that following the intense work done, Euskadi will host the ERIH Annual Assembly Conference in 2023. This conference is a key meeting point between European representatives and leading regions in the field of heritage and industrial tourism. Its celebration in Euskadi is an important milestone. I reflect our work and coordination with the European network, which we will continue to intensify in the field of industrial tourism. And so far, we have been taking important steps in the development of industrial tourism in Euskadi, until we became – as he has rightly said in the leading Autonomous Community in Spain. The one with the most Anchor Points recognized by ERIH, places of exceptional importance in terms of industry and history, where an innovative and high quality experience is offered to the visitor. We now have three: the Balmaseda Encartada, the Añana Salt Valley and the Azpeitia Railway Museum. And we are working and adapting new resources so that they can also receive this recognition. It ended, and I appeal to Basque citizens to know these heritage resources that are history, present and future of our tourism and of our industrial and working memory. And I also extend this invitation to all of you, although I suppose most of you will know it, but if you have not had the opportunity, I invite you to do so because you are well worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "By Mia's hating library, made together by the member of the Podemos-Nozzer, a member of the Society to the President of the 8th of June, which has passed by the head of the Medical Department." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. On June 8th, the head physician of the government's medical department made a statement of great concern. In this sense, and in this context of the crisis of first-seeing services, he said that we are faced with a cultural change, or that we need it. "Claro y si mirammos de qué esta ese cabio culitral que se propone, lo que vislumbramos que nos actumbremos a: los cirres periódicos de ambulatoros, a que pacentes se obligados a dior serandos y a persona de emercindos esté ejercindos de la medica. All this means, as we understand Osage, that would be a disappearance of it. And for that reason, I ask you this question, Mr. President: what is it, what does it mean, what is the cultural change which depends on government and health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mrs. Hatch. The Director General of Osakidetza and the Deputy Director of Primary Care appeared at the Health Commission on the sixth day, answering all the questions they asked them. And from that appearance is where I think it is easy to collate the reality of a cultural change. On the eight o'clock of the month the chief physician offered his speech, and spoke in words of the most important conditionary of medical services: "One, still covida, and some other pandemys. Two, the effect of research and innovation. Three, new technology and its effect on the manufacturer of the new drugs. Four new professional vocation change." It's clear that, considering these conditional conditions, we are in the face of a culture change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u21	Thanks again. When you hear your words... Well, many times... We all usually defend public health. That's one of the goals we all share. And when we speak of descent, we all take Osace as our own flag, but words only take action in particular politics. And Osacinance is to be protected beyond words for me. And it's obvious that we've got problems in our first duty and that it's a long time since we've been in business before the −pande, and that there's a lot of years of employees who tell us that there's trouble. And in front of this −'s first speech of the division of − may be this paradigma formula that, in this − crisis, in this − crisis, puts on a process which, by means of an planned disorganization of ten years, is meant to evacuate the Osar. Of course, and one cannot pretend to stabilize the poor state of public health, what must be done is to defend public health, defend Osakidetza, strengthen Osakidetza. That is why I want to propose a pact to you today. A pact in the defense of Osakidetza, a pact in the defense of public health, which commits the Basque Government to defend public health, to defend Osakidetza. And it's a very simple pact. It's minimal to us, but I think we'd make a great deal of progress. This pact could have these three elements that I propose: On the one hand, we propose to increase investment in primary care to 25% of the total health budget, which is the percentage recommended by the World Health Organization. Two. A commitment to the reversal of privatizations and also to comply with the decree of waiting lists in surgeries or diagnostic tests that are not being carried out today. Disabling in the privatization that has taken place in the attention... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... waiting lists in surgeries or diagnostic tests that are not being completed today. To desist in the privatization that it has carried out in specialized care, in radiology, Osatek, referral of patients, etc. And three, for example, end once and for all the precariousness, which is transversal throughout Osakidetza. We believe that with good working conditions, the medical staff who have emigrated, perhaps could return. In this regard, we propose a return plan with incentives and a guarantee of job stability. We have a chance to protect your health. Public health is in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Gorrotxategi andrea, sailburuak eta Eusko Jaurlaritzak hilaren zortzian eta Hurrengo egun guztietan, argi eta garbi esandakoa erepikatuk had. Lehen meshako osasun stops keeping the egingo da. Primary care will be maintained and strengthened. And cultural change means trying to anticipate and know how to adapt to unknown situations before the pandemic, taking advantage of the opportunities of research with new drugs, knowing the costs of them in a society like ours, or new treatments; or the advantages of new technologies. We talk about all this when we propose as a strategic project advanced therapies in a personalized health. Our responsibility is to take advantage of these opportunities. In any case, Mrs Gorrotxategi, the primary care strategy was approved in 2019, and is in force. It has been three years, and in reality the Department of Health and Osakidetza have extended and strengthened the public service. We have more professionals, more infrastructure, more resources, and new resources, both in health centers and hospitals and in services. A new public offer of employment has been called for. The new social and health strategy has been approved. Mental health care has been expanded, and investment in research and innovation has increased. The development of the professional career has been approved. And these decisions show the clear commitment of the public health system. I'll be clear. Improving primary care is a priority of our Government programme. I have come and we have been demanding for years the need for prestige in family and community medicine. We will strengthen primary care, advancing in care integration; we will expand, renew and consolidate staffing; we will improve training and recognition of professionals; and we will continue to work for a health without inequalities, closer and at the service of people. The Government is committed to these goals in a society with more and more elderly patients, and we will meet them. You've talked about a pact. Primary care, 25% increase; I have already said what I said. Reversing privatization; I have already said the public service bet; ending precariousness, I have said stability, and I have also said the development of the professional career. Well, if we were to be precise, we would leave the fat brush and the headlines thick, and we would truly commit ourselves, politicians, universities and professionals, to working together for the necessary model and health system, because each and every one of us, the whole of society, are beneficiaries of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, the parliamentary members of the Ciudadans to the president, about the frauds of society." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. President, good morning. A few days ago we saw a new fraud in social aid. A new scam that exceeds the million euros. Since the 17th we have not heard of such an offensive fraud for the public coffers. Then it was more than 4 million euros with 200 involved. The striking thing is that the authors of the fraud have not resorted to technological alarms or other complexities. On the contrary, the investigation reveals grossly falsified passports, duplicated administrative justifications in different files, or obvious falsifications of Osakidetza's documents. All this must be combined with non-existent training courses, false registrations, physical appearances with fictitious identities in offices in Lanbide, etc. In this way, dozens and dozens of people could be invented to receive such aid. If something has become clear that the system makes water, that the controls and checks shine for their absence. Otherwise, all of this would have been detected. Lanbide doesn't seem to count; or if it does, it doesn't seem to use the mechanisms of the most elementary control. We are faced with acts that should have triggered the alarms long before. The evil that no one pays attention to who we have been warning about this situation, and that the frauds and frauds detected are on the rise. According to the figures of his Government, his Government, Lehendakari, almost doubled: 267 throughout the year 21, and only between January and May of the year 22, 224. The top, lehendakari, is that his employment advisor is shielded in an alleged complexity of the case, and speaks of ten years of investigation, while the Police and the Court speak of an operation developed since the beginning of 2022. Someone doesn't tell the truth in this case. Therefore, the Basques ask us questions, lehendakari, which you must answer. What checks are made in Lanbide? Why aren't these fake passports detected? How is it possible that duplicate documents, duplicative forgery of Osakidetza, or false training courses of Lanbide itself are not detected? Do there really exist and are there controls? Why does your government, Mrs. Mendia, not detail them when asked? What are the control mechanisms that exist right now, and which Mr. Zupiria says he knows? What wasn't working on the transmission of information between Lanbide and the security forces? Why didn't you investigate Ertzaintza, our comprehensive police, the Department of Security, what the National Police did? What didn't work, and now they say they're changing? For this reason, Lehendakari, how does he value fraud in social aid managed by Lanbide?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, sir. You're asking me for my rating. It's always a serious fraud, even in this case, because you don't get it... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Good morning, sir. You're asking me for my rating. It is always a serious fraud, even in this case, because it was not the money they had received. And it is the same degree of anguish, not less, when this fraud happens in society, or when it happens in some other part of it. It's a mistake, Mr. Iturbia, it's serious. But I positively appreciate the fact that this fraud has been uncovered and that the impostor has placed himself in the hands of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u29	Look, lehendakari, I asked you about ten questions. He hasn't responded to almost any of me. He said she's a rattlesnake of her own generation. Well, ten questions that are not asked by Carlos Iturgaiz or the People's-Citizens Party, but are asked by Basque society, lehendakari. He wants to know, he wants to know. And you don't respond to any of them. Or your government doesn't respond. And he does an exercise here of political escapism, of slipping the lump and minimizing, as we have heard all these days. There must be social aid, logically, and it must reach each and every one of those who need it. But his responsibility is that Lanbide is not a colliery, lehendakari, for lists and exploited, whether Senegalese, Bilbao or Swedish. If it's the same. That's why your balance sheet is painful about what's going on. Look, blind people in Lanbide and Osakidetza and killers in security, that has been the action of his Government in this case. But in the meantime, what we get, look, what the Lanbide workers tell us, which is important, is that the signs of fraud that they communicate through internal channels they end up dead. That's the worrying thing, lehendakari. Lanbide should therefore not be a police station, of course; but it cannot be a colliery either. And you have to say who will respond politically in this performance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, fraud is always serious, and we will always pursue it. In any case, your question, your justification and the statements you have made in relation to this matter point in a worrying direction. You know that these kinds of topics are extremely delicate. Frankly, Mr Iturgaiz, it is not appropriate to twist reality to take political advantage of these cases. I don't think it can be said that this fraud was a simple deception, as you or you said. The information provided by the National Police itself certified that persons or persons detained were sought 22 false passports and 17 booklets from different banks for income. And I wonder, is it so easy to cheat on a bank? What is the water-making system? You claim that members of the Basque Government minimize the facts. No one from the Basque Government has lost any importance to these events. Quite the opposite. I repeat that we consider them serious and work to ensure that they do not occur. Putting the data in context, Mr Iturgaiz, is not to minimize it, it means informing and documenting reality, precisely to avoid misrepresentation and biased interpretations. You claim that the number of scams detected has doubled in 2022 compared to 2021. This is true. More fraud has been detected precisely because monitoring and control systems have been improved. You know the controls and you also know that the reform of Lanbide's law strengthens this system. A new specific inspection unit will be created to prevent fraud and more controls, both routine and random, will be articulated to deepen all the checks being carried out. Finally, Mr Iturgaiz, I ask you not to make the mistake and the demagogy of insinuating the link between fraud and migrants. Yes, Mr. Iturgaiz, he does it when he emphasizes... Now he talks about bilbains and Swedes. But it does when it emphasizes that this is a plot headed by a Senegalese citizen, this is what they said. Or when he makes statements saying that Euskadi is a glue for foreign defrauders, this is what they said. This is unfair, Mr. Iturgaiz. It projects a stigma on migrants that only hurts. Migration is a necessity for our society. Migrants represent a constructive and honest contribution to the present and future of Euskadi. And our responsibility is to create conditions for decent and adequate reception and integration. Income guarantee income and excellence in its management is a priority for the Government. The draft law on income-guarantee reform, which is in this Parliament, is an opportunity to deepen this path and to advance the commitment to social cohesion. I invite you to participate in this process in a constructive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Madia Martíne, the Grey-Mishtua Mishtina, the lawmate of the Vox team, the first vice-president and Security department, about the case of fraud recently begun by social aid." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Last week we were faced with a new case of fraud in the collection of social aid which, due to its size, people involved and the prolongation in the time of the fraud has generated a major social alarm. At the same time, we knew that a Commissioner from the Ertzaintza who was acting as liaison with Lanbide towards an exercise in the abandonment of his duties and, despite being aware that irregularities were being committed, he avoided opening the investigation. The facts are serious enough for the Basque Government to assume political responsibilities and carry out internal cleansing. That is why we ask you, Mr Erkoreka: does the Basque Government intend to adopt any kind of measure aimed at cleaning up internal responsibilities in order to improve coordination between departments and to avoid new cases of fraud in the collection of social aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martínez, you have made a story that incorporates facts, behaviors and assessments... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martínez, you have made a story that incorporates facts, behaviors and assessments that, of course, do not rest at all on official information provided by the Department of Safety. They certainly rely on some media owner, but, of course, official information requested and forwarded by the Department of Safety and Security does not. Therefore, you will understand that at a time when - at least as far as you know - there is no record whatsoever of the possible existence of conduct liable to disciplinary responsibility, because you are talking about debugging responsibilities, in the area of the cooperation relations established between Ertzaintza and Lanbide in this field, at a time when such a record does not exist, we do not encourage the opening of disciplinary files that are not based on proven, contrasted facts and that can serve as a basis for such a requirement of liability. With regard to the improvement of cooperation relations, to which you refer, so that the operation of services can improve in the interests of quality, quality improvement, efficiency improvement, always in the interests of the public interest, you will always find here an enthusiastic adviser in improving the existing mechanisms, always, I insist, to improve the mechanisms of collaboration in the interests of improving efficiency from the perspective of the defence of the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u38	Mr Erkoreka, it was the expected answer: no self-criticism and justification of the unjustifiable. I support myself in real data, I can assure you. We are dealing with a case of large-scale social fraud. More than 20 people in detention, a million euros in fraud and, above all, ten years in which his government has been unable to detect fraud in the perception of GIR. Ten years in which the controls have shone for their absence, and ten years in which the solidarity of the Basques has been betrayed while their government acted as a statue of salt. But perhaps the most serious part of this whole matter was the information that we have known - and not only by the media - about the discharge of duties carried out by the Commissioner of the Ertzaintza Juan Carlos Rioja. The first thing you have to explain is what is the supposed liaison function that this political commissioner does. Because her partner, Mrs. Mendia, at a meeting with journalists at Ercilla Hotel said Lanbide was not a police office. She should explain to us why during that meeting the counselor said that the National Police had been investigating this matter for ten years, when we know that this police force received the information last February and in just one month has cleared it. Why has your government so grossly failed the truth? He should explain to us why his political commissioner declined to carry out an investigation, such as his obligation, if he had known of irregularities in relation to three passports since at least December. He also evaded his responsibility to communicate it to the National Police, transferring this obligation to Lanbide officials. Mr. Erkoreka, why did Mr. Rioja not conduct the relevant investigation and transfer responsibility for the complaint to Lanbide officials? Mr Erkoreka, was the decision not to carry out the investigation unilaterally taken by Mr Rioja or did he respond to political guidelines? We'd like to know. Think carefully about your answer, because if you do not announce today in this rostrum the cessation of this Commissioner, Mr Rioja, as we ask you, will be more than credited that his action has responded to political guidelines. And then the responsibility, Mr Erkoreka, will point directly to you. Mr Rioja's behaviour seems particularly serious, but very serious, because it responds to a structural modus operandi that intends to hide and hide the irregularities detected in a drawer. A strategy that consists of covering cases of fraud to make up statistics and avoid knowing the true dimension of social fraud and thus being able to justify the policy of goodism. The seriousness of leaving the police commissioner's office goes far beyond the concealment of fraud cases. Mr Erkoreka, do you not believe that the image of the Ertzaintza has been tarnished in the face of the abandonment of functions in the commission of a possible crime? What confidence can citizens have in their government about their impartiality in ensuring compliance with the law, seeing that you are governed by arbitrary criteria and political opportunity? Mr Erkoreka, in this case there has been something more serious than lack of control. We have discovered the true reality, which is nothing other than its lack of political will to combat social fraud for less political interests. Political interests that placed this commissioner in the office of Lanbide finger, with office in Lanbide and official car.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u39	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, it is not for me to be held accountable and to reason, either in this or in any other forum on the conduct of the people who make up Lanbide's staff, let alone in relation to the actions of the National Police. I am sure you will have more intense contacts with which I can have in this area. I am therefore not going to say anything about this particular matter, and about the piece of paper that you have brought to your speech on this matter, because it is not for me. I am surprised at the effort I see you in opening disciplinary files to Ertzaintza agents. I thought that was an assignment of other parliamentary groups, which do not have interventions in this House talking about Ertzaintza if it is not to ask for disciplinary demands and responsibilities; but I see that you have joined the car, you are free to do so. Maybe you need to change the seat location and get closer to those who... [[Barres]] That said, if what you mean is that someone in the Department of Security or in the Ertzaintza area has given instructions that in relation to existing complaints of alleged crimes against the public administration be stopped, paralyzed, obstructed or prevented from proceeding with such complaints formally filed, I deny you the largest. Neither this councillor nor any of the people who make up his political team has given instructions in that direction. And if you have effective knowledge of someone in the field of Ertzaintza or the Department of Security, I insist, who has given measures, has taken decisions to stop, prevent or hinder or hinder the processing of complaints formally filed in relation to possible frauds against the Public Administration in this or other areas, with conflicting data accredited and proven... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... formally presented in relation to possible frauds against the Public Service in this or other areas, with contrasted, accredited and proven data... not with a media owner, a conversation held underground, in which I don't know where, and which, with contrasted and proven data, we will examine and deal with it, of course, as is always the case with such procedures. Always existing, I insist, contrasted data, and whenever there is a formal complaint about the particular, which is what has to exist, right? I believe, as the lehendakari has rightly pointed out, that resisting a complaint against a crime against the public administration seems to me to be a serious conduct. But there is no record of this at all. There is no record of this adviser on the official basis of the information that has come to him within the Department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a popularo of the Ciudadans, a member of the legislature of the President, concerning the consequences of the crisis of Algeria." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. The open crisis between the governments of Algeria and the Spanish government, Sánchez's government, as a result of this change of historical position in relation to Western Sahara, is an additional blow and an additional element of extortion to the complex economic, geostrategic, political and global situation that we are suffering. This crisis occurs when the President of the Government of Spain breaks a historic consensus that, by the way, he did not consult with us. I do not know if you, Mr Lehendakari, were consulted; we, of course, were not consulted. I say that it is a crisis that arises and that what it does is to aggravate a particularly complex context: we have the invasion of Ukraine; the sanctions for Russia by the European Union; we have a tension in the distribution chain; we also have problems with semiconductors, problems that are even affecting the prices of raw materials, especially food. In other words, there is a serious economic situation which is also being seen as being adversely affected by a number of actions, in this case by the central Government. That, as well as being responsible and sincere, there are issues that do not depend on the central government, but that this crisis has indeed been caused by the central government, and it has been a crisis that does harm us all and also the Basque industry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u44	Mr Lehendakari, there are many contrasting differences that your group and ours have. But in economic matters, in industrial matters, I want to think that we can find points of understanding, and that we can also - even at certain times - reach certain agreements, as in fact we have done in some other full. And specifically in the field of industry, Mr Lehendakari, I believe that both your group and my group, together with the two of us, are in the best position to deal with this very complex situation, because industry is above all a source of wealth, of innovation and, therefore, of social welfare. In April this year, Mr Lehendakari, I addressed some questions to your advisor, to the Government's industrial adviser, Mrs Tapia, concerning also the support measures the Government intended to adopt in support of the electro-intensive industry, specifically as a result of the sharp rise in energy costs and all that implies: higher costs involve less margin, means adjustments many times, and, above all, it also ends up moving to the consumer himself, raising inflation and the whole chain of the economic process. In her reply, the Counsellor - a very complete and very honest reply, by the way, the Counsellor - acknowledged that the current regulations that exist basically, and above all the energy management that the central Government was carrying out, were significantly damaging the competitiveness of our industry. I'll insist again with the initial idea. In this context of uncertainties, crises, complexities, of a world that is adjusting to new balances of power and problems in this world economy, Mr Sánchez's government, which you support in Madrid, gives us a new crisis: a new crisis, a new diplomatic front and a blow to our industry. How does this blow come true? Look, this coup is basically about three things. First, it compromises the agreements, contracts and initiatives that Basque companies already have - in this case - with Algeria; some means of communication, carrying out some small research, has amounted to 70-75-80 million. I mean, it may seem like an amount at this time not too important, especially if we compare it to the remnants we have out there, but it's an important amount. And, above all, it is a very negative issue for these companies. Secondly, it also implies a significant loss of opportunity. You know that in the economic world, in the business world, a situation of crisis, especially uncertainty, a situation of uncertainty, what it does is to avoid new business opportunities. And we've seen it with Algeria. We have seen that at the time when the Spanish Government has logically taken a step back, or has taken a step back, because the situation is that we have not yet been sufficiently clarified, as other European countries have appeared to cover these gaps. And the industries in those countries are going to benefit, and ours is not going to be there, Mr Lehendakari. It also affects, thirdly, this tension, which occurs with a country that has an important role in the supply of energy, namely gas. I insist, it may seem that it is not a supply, let us say, fundamental, strategic, etc., that the pipeline has now been changed, that gas is being transported by ship, etc. But the truth is that this tension on the world energy market does - as you well know, Mr Lehendakari - also affect electricity prices. With this, we return to the exit box, which consists of that allocation, on that new front that opens up to our industry, in this case also from this sector. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, this latest flyer on Mr Sánchez's foreign policy which, I insist, his group supports in the Congress of Deputies, is not the first. It's just, it's not the first one. We come from the European funds. We are still waiting, Mr Lehendakari, for the European funds. And our group here supports his government, the Basque Government, so that European funds can reach Basquedi as soon as possible. On the subject of electricity and petrol, then, let's not get involved anymore. We already know, don't we?, this management that's been going on about gasoline. Anyway... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... for European funds to reach Euskadi as soon as possible. On the subject of electricity and petrol, we do not even get involved, we already know. This management of gasoline, in short, we are seeing the result, has only raised and scaled the price, not to mention other issues and regulation, etc. Even in the area of taxes, which is not the subject of this inquiry, but it does seem that the fact that the IRPF does not fall or deflate, for example, in the Government, or on the part of the central Government, means that perhaps also because the Basque institutions do not carry out that measure which would be so necessary. All of this, Mr Lehendakari, is simply a series of elements which add tension and which add uncertainty to our industry, because after all this, I wonder why they continue to support and why in substance your group also supports Mr Sánchez's government in Madrid. For all these reasons, Mr Lehendakari, today I ask you what measures your Government is studying to deal with this new economic and political crisis which is added to previous ones and other issues affecting industry carried out by Mr Sánchez's Government, how we are going to react, and how the Basque Government is going to establish a number of elements to help our industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u46	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu Andrea. Egun on, yellow Gordillo. I begin by acknowledging that his questioning has caused some perplexity. He had him as a faithful defender of liberal philosophy, the one who believes in the self-regulatory power of markets, and proclaims that the smaller the intervention of the state, the better. And I see from his inquiry that when a problem arises he remembers the importance of the Government, and he asks the lehendakari for public aid measures. We are studying to deal with the crisis in Algeria. Well, I welcome the principle of reality from respect and political discrepancy. In any case, I have the feeling that the ultimate end of his inquiry is to abound in criticism of the President of the Spanish Government for his decision on the Sahara and his rapprochement with Morocco. I will begin by analysing the situation of the crisis with Algeria. From the Government we are following this Algerian crisis, which we regard as worrying and grave. This concern also involves high doses of prudence, because it is unclear whether it is in the present situation or whether it is in the future. Events have precipitated this past week, as you will know. The Foreign Minister, Mr Albares, travelled urgently on Friday 10 June to Brussels to meet with the Commissioner for Community Trade, in order to seek clear support from the European Union for the Spanish position in the conflict. And after obtaining this support, Algeria has temporarily acceded to the pressure of the European Union. In a statement issued hours after the Union's warnings were made, the Delegation of Algeria in Brussels denied that the transactions with Spain had been broken, while ensuring the supply of gas. The Delegation of Algeria clarified that, for the time being, it would maintain the current status quo with the Spanish State. That "for now" reflects that we remain in a situation of instability and uncertainty. In any case, from the Basque Government we maintain our full attention and follow-up of the situation due to the possible consequences that this crisis may have on the supply of gas, as well as on its price, and consequently, its effects on families and the Basque economy. The main focus of the conflict is on Spain's high dependence on Algerian gas. This source accounts for 40% of the hydrocarbons consumed in the State, and in any case the arrival of the fuel is governed by the contract in force until 2032 between Naturgy and the Algerian energy company Sonatrach. We are currently awaiting the termination of this contract, at the risk that Algeria will suffer severe economic sanctions for unilaterally breaking a contractual obligation. Where there may be consequences, it is the prices of the gas supplied that are reviewed every three years. And this situation can also affect the agricultural markets, as Algeria is the fourth international market to which Spain comes to buy meat, fish, oil or cereals, and is also the third buyer market of these products to Spain. I focus, then, on the impact on Euskadi. The crisis in Algeria will also have a direct but more limited impact on Basque families, the economy and businesses. This crisis is an added difficulty on the road to recovery that we are experiencing. It generates a new area of uncertainty and concern, which is added to the difficulties that we are already experiencing, and which you have mentioned, arising from the war in Ukraine, widespread price rise, difficulties in supply chains, reduction of trade margins. According to the data we are analysing, Euskadi's trade with Algeria, to which you have also referred, according to press reports, amounts to 73 million euros. Our trade balance shows a positive balance of 59 million. In addition, 14 Basque companies, some of the relevance of CAF or Iberdrola have a direct presence in the Algerian country, although only one, the Omega group (?)Elevator, has a productive facility in Algeria. Alongside this direct impact on Basque companies, the impact of this crisis on the cost of energy, and in particular on the price of gas, is on the horizon. Despite the gas cap approved on 9 June at the Congress of Deputies, we could face an additional bill that would have an impact added to the rise in the price of the fuels we are suffering, and that in fact, the 20 cent per litre discount approved by the Spanish Government has already been eaten. Electro-intensive companies, as you mentioned, such as Arcelor or CAF, will continue to suffer the consequences of this price increase. After all, the diplomatic crisis that has been opened with Algeria adds uncertainty, and may produce more influence on the cost of the input of production, and consequently on the reduction of the present corporations. After examining the effect, I'm going to look into the measures made by the Basque Miac, to suggest new measurements. That's why the company's been in touch with the rehearsals that have been taking effect has been contacting him all the time. We're collecting information based on a double path. On the one hand, to consider how events can be evolved, and on the other, the exposure of euscal corporations as well as of energy in international trade. For this purpose, Mr. Gordillo,... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...checking the exposure of the eupscals in energy and international commerce. To this end, Mr Gordillo, the Basque Internationalisation Agency, Basque Trade & Investment, has produced a report analysing the exhibition that Euskadi may have as a result of the commercial relations that our business fabric has with Algeria. The help desk has also been made available to companies, this service was launched in the wake of the crisis in Ukraine and has expanded its scope also to cover companies affected by the Algerian crisis. We will remain in constant contact with the Basque companies and will take the additional measures that are necessary in a complementary way to those that are already under way. And I would like to remind you that the Basque Government has made various programmes available to the economic and social fabric, with a direct impact on economic recovery, improved energy efficiency, the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises and support for the most vulnerable people affected by the rise in energy prices. These programmes include the Berpiztu Plan, the Berpiztu Programme, which was approved at the beginning of the legislature. This plan aims to mobilise €13.250 million to encourage economic recovery and alleviate the negative effects of the crises we are experiencing. The Berpiztu programme is an economic injection with a positive impact on Basque companies. This endogenous injection is being complemented by strategic projects presented through the Euskadi Next programme that access European funds, as you have also mentioned in relation to European funds. Another key instrument is the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan approved with Horizon 20-30. Innovation is a crucial response and the greatest guarantee and the best of future competitiveness in the face of current uncertainty. The SME support programme 22, SMEs 2022, with EUR 600 million, includes support measures for the implementation of R & D, entrepreneurship, industrial development and internationalisation projects, such as the Sakondu programme for the diversification and search for new external markets. In addition, the energy efficiency and cost-saving measures we presented at the Governing Council on 15 March are in force. These measures, managed by the Basque Energy Authority, have an initial allocation of EUR 150 million, which can be extended, if the situation so requires, as a result of the crisis with Algeria. We are also examining the possibility of including the companies concerned in the measures and credit lines managed through Elkargi and the Basque Institute of Finance. This aid is intended to facilitate the liquidity and financing of small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the crisis. Also, Mr Gordillo, the specific funds for social rescue and economic rescue amounting to EUR 200 million approved at the Governing Council on 12 April last are in force. The Social Rescue Fund provides for additional social emergency aid and to address energy poverty, as well as funding for local networks to support vulnerable people, which may be expanded as appropriate. We also see, Mr Gordillo, a fund with aid for intensive gas industries, social economy enterprises, promotion of energy cooperatives and aid for the primary sector, as well as additional liquidity measures for companies with additional funds of EUR 43 million. So all these support measures and programs are still in full force. Due to the diplomatic crisis of departure with Algiers, we are able to examine how the measures we have formed are adapted to new necessities of society and corporation. I'll continue to check the situation and evaluate the measurements, which are always related to the company and the production network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. And thank you very much, Mr Lehendakari, for your explanations and even for the sympathetic note of initial humor, which is not usual for you to have, so I thank you very much. But look, it is also a common mistake to confuse liberal philosophy as an authentic regulation, when liberal philosophy implies above all three things: clarity, stability, fair play. And in such a complex context as is the energy market, where there is a very high regulation, because in this case the context of liberal philosophy what it does above all, what it asks above all, is that there are clear rules and that with the actions of governments - in which I obviously believe, not politics - let all companies be subject to the same rules. So liberal philosophy is above all that, isn't it? Fair play for everyone. What happens is that as good as you are now also in this social democracy, social democracy does believe a lot in hyperintervention. But I do take the positive part of our debate, Mr Lehendakari. Above all for one point and it is that the interesting thing is always always left for the second round, perhaps in the second round it clarifies us, we concretely, some specific question. I have heard you disaggregate what your government plan is, which is fine, and we with some measures, some we criticize, others we have proposed improvements and others we can share, as you well know. But, man, this is a specific situation that I believe requires questions and, above all, specific decisions and actions. I believe, Mr Lehendakari, that on this issue we must react now. My question for this reason comes and my request and my inquiry came above all to know whether you have spoken to Mr Sánchez, whether his advisers have spoken to the ministers of the branch. I mean, if there's a contact with the central government above all to make you see that also in this thing that you now want to call co-governance, right? It seems to be a concept that has not been fully defined either. But there is actually some sort of coordination or above all, how the government of Mr Sánchez leaves us to the industries and above all to the Basque industry in this situation. Nor is it my aim to come here to criticize Mr Sánchez, but, man, it is true that my aim above all is to control the government and to quote you as lehendakari to encourage your government to make the decisions that are most appropriate for our industry. Because when we have a situation as complex as it is today, we can bring it all back to three possibilities. When one is perginated the crisis, a very important crisis, and his economic advisor who is a very... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...like the current one, we can bring it all back to three possibilities. When there is a crisis, a very important crisis, and your economic advisor who is a very intelligent gentleman can put it into practice with better words than I do, there are several options. One option is to keep trying to fill the bag; keep trying to fill the bag by the time the blow arrives. Because there will be a coup and an important correction, well, through a subsidy policy, because try to cushion the coup. That is the option that most Governments often resort to when they do not want to resort to the other two options that are really important. And this, look, it does have to do with free philosophy. One would be the transformation of the economy. We are very committed to the transformation of the economy, and that is why we have made an effort to reach agreements with your group also in the full monographs we have had here. It seems that the transformation of the economy is also pending the release of a number of European funds, which we are also waiting for. And thirdly, very important too, it is about eliminating regulations, and also eliminating regulations that are too much, especially in certain markets. But I believe that what we have to decide here, and above all I believe that the role of the government too, is to push forward in this case; and above all, to make the governments, both from the Basque and in this case the Spanish, let the companies do it. It is not a question of protecting companies from a paternalistic point of view. The opposite is to ensure that companies can, let's say, survive in this context, and, above all, with a certain amount of... with a certain balance with other competitors they have from other countries. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, I ask you to clarify what specific measures you have in your second round, perhaps, because you have a great deal of capacity to influence Mr Sánchez's government, Mr Lehendakari. You have a lot of capacity. He's a humble man, he doesn't want to admit it, but you and your group have a lot of capacity to influence the government, Mr. Sánchez. So I do ask you to give us some specific action, and, above all, I give you an idea: I believe that the best way to improve the situation of Basque companies would be to stop supporting Mr Sánchez in Madrid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gordillo. Well, I think it finally came to where I started the first intervention, to what the characteristics of liberalism. You've started with three features, I'll take the fair play one. But you have come then to let the companies do, and not to regulate from what is the Basque Administration, in this case the administration we manage. Look, my first intervention... and by the way, this social democracy thing, I like social humanism better as a philosophy. In any case, in my first speech I focused on the analysis of the situation in Euskadi and the measures taken by the Basque Government. Perhaps you have stuck my reference to what is the government programme and the existing programmes as a result of the government programme, and have not been able to retain what has already been the complementary measures that we are proposing. You have devoted part of your speech to criticizing the decision of the President of the Spanish Government to unilaterally change the position on Western Sahara. I believe that this criticism is in fact the priority of the interpellation it raises, as has been the end of its intervention. In diplomatic relations I believe that we must act with caution, and in my view it is not good to use crises with other countries to make internal party politics. In any case, this is an issue that has already been discussed in this Parliament on 28 April. This House adopted a non-legislative proposal that urged the President of the Spanish Government to actively support and facilitate the United Nations, the European Union or international organizations, a political option for the resolution of the Saharan conflict, if that is the cause of what the Algerian crisis is, which is in accordance with international law and UN resolutions. And this is supporting the holding of a consensus referendum on self-determination that will enable the Saharawi people to decide their future. The arguments raised at that time are reflected in the minutes of the sitting. And I don't have to focus on them because they're well-known. Yes, I will make a specific reference to the need to maintain coherence, as well as ethical and democratic principles as well, and especially in external relations. As for co-herence and principles, I take upon myself as the President the resolutions and institutions which he has received over 15 times over the battle of Saharar, and the institutions of the expression, the first in 1986. In all these cases, Mr. Gordillo has been a clear attitude to the Basque Parliament for a refendum protected by the United Nations. Let the people of Saharar decide their future with freedom. This solution requires an autodetermination referendum that matches the solutions of the United Nations' letter. That coherent attitude (... ) is founded on ethical and democratic principles. I believe that this coherence is a necessary coherence, both for the Spanish Government and also for the People's Party itself. To the People's Party itself or to the Citizens' People's Group, in the case that is yours. An external observer might think that the last decision of the Spanish Government is not very consistent with the historic position of the Socialist Party in this area. However, that same external observer might think that the attitude of the People's Party is not very consistent either. It is not consistent to vote on 7 June in the Congress of Deputies in favour of a non-law proposal in defense of a referendum agreed around Western Sahara, and that after that the leader of the People's Party to which you belong, Mr Gordillo, in a bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister of Morocco, Aziz Akhannouch, will demonstrate his loyalty to Morocco in the following terms. And I quote: "Our alliance with Morocco is unquestionable, we are never going to be disloyal with that country; we are not going to do acts that break trust as the Spanish Government has done with the leader of the Polisario front." This is what the leader of your party said, Mr. Gordillo. Coherence and principles are two key elements in international relations and internal policy. And I end by re-emphasizing the work of monitoring and evaluating (...) Algerians being carried out by the Basque Government. We have implemented social and economic aid programmes that enable businesses and the most vulnerable sectors to cope with the negative effects of the war in Ukraine and the crisis in Algeria. And we will continue to keep in constant contact with the companies affected by the diplomatic crisis with Algeria, through a specific working group set up with these companies, in order to carry out a direct and permanent follow-up of developments. This working group will have the capacity to propose the necessary new aid and support measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is, Amaia Martíne, the Grey-The Mistha, a member of the Vox team, made to the president about the medical instinct of the Osa. " Mrs Martínnez, your word is... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... Point eight: "The question is, Amaia Martíne, the Grey-The Mistha, a member of the Vox team, made to the president about the medical instinct of the Osa. " Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I'll scream. A little more than a week ago, the health counselor alarmed the population by announcing a model change in Osakidetza, announcing a series of measures, each one more unbridled, to mitigate the consequences of the shortage of family doctors that has dragged public health into this autonomous community for many years, even decades. There is a need for improved promotion of primary care among younger health professionals. Widespread trend towards the development of their profession in hospitals. There are limitations arising from MIR processes, including access to faculties. Problems that in the Basque Country, moreover, are aggravated by the weight that euskera has on public job offers. In all light, excessive and unmotivating. Therefore, Mr Lehendakari, we ask you the following question: What measures will the Basque Government take to ensure that the demand for Basque language profiles does not make it difficult for doctors and nurses to exercise their profession in the different public health resources of the Basque Country, especially in primary care?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u53	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Martínez andrea, it is not true that the linguistic requirement of euskera is an impediment to access a medical place or a square or nursing in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Martinez andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u56	Mr Lehendakari, all of us here know that euskera is an almost insurmountable stumbling block for doctors from other autonomous communities, even from other countries, to exercise their profession in the Basque Country as public health officials. Even his government partner, the PSE, has seen him, who, after learning of the wishes and plans of the health adviser, jumps to the media criticizing the imposition of linguistic profiles in the OPEs of Osakidetza. The PSE has shown that it is aware that the language profile is a problem. Although his movement was a bit comical, because no one escapes that his party is part of the problem both by action and by omission. But the approach has its logic. The shortage of doctors is a chronic problem of Spanish public health, but especially serious in the Basque Country. And you know it. Where you have decided to add one more, insurmountable obstacle for many, as well as discriminatory. How are we going to attract talent and professionals from other communities in Spain if to exercise they have to carry in the portfolio at least the Basque PL2? It gives the impression that you - and I refer to both partners of government for almost a decade - have been working with the conviction that it is feasible to fill vacancies and ensure replacements only with professionals trained in this region and previously Euskaldunized. And they insist despite being sure that, if we are to maintain a reasonable quality of care, it will be necessary to use trained professionals outside this region, even outside Spain. His government partner was critical of a model that he endorsed and supported. It is a model that gives the linguistic profile a weight much higher in the OPE than the specialized training, to the realization of a master's degree, to the precise knowledge for the exercise of medicine. That is, there is no possible competition between two physicians with identical experience if one of them believes the PL2 and the other does not. And this is discriminatory in all its aspects. The Basque language has become an element to encourage the recruitment of Basque professionals, being also a tool to discriminate against those who do not speak this language, although their experience and knowledge are very remarkable. And the question is obvious: Do Basque patients prefer to be cared for by the best doctor or by whom it is best expressed in Basque? And I can't give credit to those who claim that the main thing is to be cared for in Basque and maybe also to be anesthetized in Basque or to be operated on in Basque. Mr Lehendakari, not taking down the ellipse of the euskera for access to public health is a irresponsibility with very serious consequences. And, as you are very predictable, and you will call me exaggerated, as you always do, advance you that we do not want to skip the Law of Language Law of citizens. But this does not imply that the entire staff of Osakidetza has to know Basque. We can be fair and respectful with both official languages, which has as much validity as a PL2 in Basque as a PL2 in Spanish, something you do not do. He will also tell us that in Osakidetza, as he has said, there are staff working who have no knowledge of Basque, right? That's what he told us. Yes, Mr Lehendakari, there are people in Osakidetza who work and do not know Basque. But how many of them have fixed seats? None.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u57	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, I have given up qualifying your interventions. I don't call you anything. I call your interventions up to now sometime. But I've given up. Look, I'll tell you again. It is not true that the linguistic requirement of the Basque language is an impediment to access a medical or nursing place in Euskadi. It's a lie that it's a condition for Osacian to work as a medical or a nurse. It's a total lie. All lies. Horseshit. Bad lie, Mrs Martínez. The system of language profiles is not creating difficulties in the incorporation of health professionals into Osakidetza. The lack of family doctors and other specialties is a problem that lives in our environment. In the second intervention, less wrong, the Spanish State has already said. I would invite you to say this also at international level because this is the reality, because it is happening in other European countries. It is a problem that in no case comes from the linguistic profiles that are required in our public health service. A service to which we must acknowledge and congratulate for your involvement in the task of ensuring attention in the two official languages of our community, Mrs Martínez. Osakidetza professionals are committed to bilingual quality care. And this commitment corresponds to bilingual and non-bilingual professionals, Mrs Martínez. And I appreciate your effort and willingness. Linguistic rights are the rights of people, of all... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... corresponds to bilingual and non-bilingual professionals, Mrs. Martínez. And I appreciate your effort and willingness. Linguistic rights are the rights of individuals, of each and every individual. And the Basque Government's commitment and commitment is to guarantee these rights. Advancing these guarantees has never been a factor that has conditioned the shortage of doctors and doctors in some specialties. Four very easy, very simple reasons to understand, Mrs Martínez. One, the euskera normalization process has always been guided by the principle of progressiveity. Two, the demand for Basque has always been applied with criteria of sociolinguistic reality. It has always been tried to cover with bilingual professionals areas where there are more Basque speakers, Basque speakers. In any case, I reiterate that all citizens have the same right to be served in either official language. Three, the highest level required of health professionals is B2, basic. It is a clear demonstration that the principle of progressiveity is in fact being applied. However, there are a large number of professionals who have accredited level C1, the most advanced. Many consider it necessary to master the two official languages in order to offer a quality service. In case there was any doubt, these people have no advantage in believing that level, Mrs. Martinez. And four, this flexible, reality-adapted plan does not generate internal or external conflict. This plan ensures that there is not a single place for patient care services without providing as a result of the Basque requirement. In cases where euskera is required and there are no people with the accredited profile, staff are systematically recruited without accredited knowledge. In conclusion, allow me to comment on the wording of your question. Mrs. Martinez, we have had doctors and doctors for a long time, we also have nurses and nurses. It would be convenient for you, as with the Basque, to go and admit that times are changing. I'll see you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Presidents of the House of Security and Vice Presidents, the resignation of Prebet and Prest and Prestorology, and the nomination of the new director." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u60	"Maversación, affiliación indendida, gestion desleal e insolvencia punble." Mr. Izagree, who's already in charge of the D.A.'s office in New York. And last week, you chose Ricardo Iture, instead of him, as director of emergency and Meteorology. You have been in a great hurry to shut up this chapter with resignation and nomination, instead of examining it with the transparency and depth required by events, and explaining it as if it were a matter that does not go with you. So today's question is: whether you think you're managing all this properly in the name of the general interest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, I don't know if it's urgent for you to manage one month and a half in the middle term to be the zese and the other's nomination. Normally, that gap is a much shorter range for public service (... .). On the other hand, your cryptic question would require certain shades, but hues would have to do with it, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u64	We think that you have been more anxious to close this chapter hastily, than to manage it properly, and to clear it; not only in respect to the nomination, but in respect of everything else. You have been concerned not so much about purifying, not managing and clarifying what has happened or clarifying its dimension or the possible impact on public interests. You have been concerned to move on as soon as possible, and it shows that you, the Governing Council to which you cease, were one hour the spokesman of the Government giving explanations of what was dealt with in it and did not even comment on this matter. Or, in addition, they also cease it quickly, without apparently consulting the Ethics Committee. What do I say you'll be there for something, right? And, moreover, against his own judgment, which to date established that until the opening of the oral trial the high charges were not to be terminated by the mere fact of being investigated. Therefore, something must be checked, and that is why I say that you have gone as fast as you want to cover it up quickly. But so or more worrying that his actions are his words, oriented to move on. You say that it is a dispute between individuals and that there is no property injury to the Government, that there is no harm to the general interest either. You say that this is a stage prior to your responsibilities in the Government. I mean, I mean, with these statements of yours we have to do an act of faith and believe in conversion. To think that, if the facts are confirmed, a person accused of misappropriation, misappropriation, unfair management, who has apparently been able to use credit cards from an NGO to pay for hotels, furniture and champagne, and who has been able to spend the share of thousands of Basque volunteers, this person must believe that from the moment he is appointed by you, by the grace of Erkoreka, he has been rehabilitated in the Basque Government and has made an improper use of public resources in the 13 months in which he has held that office. And I say we have to believe and believe, because up to now you have insisted that nothing will be done because we're talking about a previous stage. A careful government, what a careful government should do, is a kind of auditory or analysis on the management of the administration of 13 months of the office. The way this person spent more than a year in office spent the money of everyone, the lititations and the contracts that were committed. We think it's the least we can do. But you didn't do anything, you didn't even show it. That on the one hand. But on the other hand, Mr. Erkoreka, between 2016 and 2021 - the time investigated with Izagirre as president of the DYA - only his Department, the Security Department, only the Security Department, do not know if others have hired with DYA or given them nominative departures as given to him by his department annually or investigated companies of the plot, only his department has given him 957,500 euros; almost a million euros. And do you say that there is no damage to the government's property and no harm to the general interest? You don't care what money we gave the DYA and how this gentleman spent that million euros? Don't you care about that, Mr. Erkoreka? You're not going to investigate it, you're not going to character to see what happened and if we can recover something from the misuse of that money that the Basques and Basques have been giving you over these years? But they do not intend to do anything at all. We believe in this case... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...what if we can recover something from the misuse of that money that the Basques and Basques have been giving him over the years? But they do not intend to do anything at all. We believe in this case, in the defence of the general transparency and interest, this government has hitherto produced a suspense. And that question would be: You're not going to spend 13 months in charge or audition? You don't care if you spent your money on anything? Don't worry so much about closing this chapter in a hurry, and as to be managed and enlightened.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Estarrona jauna, nire amonak esaten zuen badagoela nahasteroen motto bat, eta esaten zuen motto hori zela: "What more will you give yarn than soap, if everything is for clothes". Eta zuk horrelako nahaste bat egin duzu. Since everything is for clothes, and I am in opposition, I will mix one thing with the other: the cessation of the previous one, with the appointment of the current one, with the DYA, which is an institution that has no connection with the Basque Government, to make a kind of cocktail... You've wanted to mount a current (...) souffle, inflate it, inflate it, inflate it, and I don't know if the souffle is going to stay in a churro. Let's see. I, what I had to say about the person who was already ceased as Director of Emergency Administration and Meteorology, said it in an answer I gave, which I gave in this very House, to a question put by one (Parliamentarian of the People's Party?)). On that particular, I have nothing to add. And it's just, you're saying to me, "You're not going to characterise yourself in that procedure?". It is that, the Government cannot be involved in this procedure. The saint of what? If it is a particular complaint that some people put on others, and there is no public interest immediately concerned there because in none of the accusations that are in the lawsuit – none, absolutely none – has anything to do with any of the... Ojo, you are talking about public aid, which like other institutions that collaborate with the field of emergency are granted from the Department of Interior: to the Red Cross, to the Dog Association (...), to the Association of Speleologists... To a series of groups that are objectively collaborating, helping with the public emergency system of Euskadi, and the DYA is one more. But the public aid that the Basque Government has been giving to the DYA has nothing to do with the alleged commercial operations that you of course give since there is a judgment made. There is an open procedure with its presumptions of innocence, with its processing, which the Government, of course, respects. And nothing has to be said - absolutely nothing - because nothing that is in question or at stake in that process has anything to do with the management of this person at the head of the Department, and you tell me that we have quickly managed the matter, when between the cessation of one person and the appointment of the next one has mediated nothing less than a month and a half. Month and a half, which seemed to me already excessive, because there was an administrative unit that during this period was not beheaded because there was a vice-advisor who assumed those functions, but was somehow disoriented because he lacked an immediate director. I mean, don't read it, don't try to mix it all up, don't trust to make a sufflé with heterogeneous data, brought from here and there. The Government's attitude on this issue must be the one. And it cannot be another, moreover, because the court would not tolerate it. It sets me the example of the Committee on Public Ethics and its approach to this matter. Yeah, yeah. The Public Ethics Commission establishes a criterion, which nowhere is said to be better and more demanding. Is this somewhere you put this? It doesn't. And in this case, there is one person who, without submitting his personal situation to the opinion of the Public Ethics Commission, says: "Look, I'm not even going to submit. I want my personal situation not to affect, not to spoil the government, and therefore I submit my resignation." Is it wrong for you to be more demanding in the area of the ethical requirement of what the Committee on Public Ethics establishes? I think it's laudable. It seems plausible to me. By the way, when you evaluate the Public Ethics Commission and what it is giving away, remember that there are also cases that, as the Public Ethics Commission has already established a framework of reference, there are people who assume it without submitting to the opinion of the Public Ethics Commission because they already take it, and take action (...).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interface, the Julian group of Laura Garrido Körors, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of the second vice president, and the Chief of Staff and Emplegue, about the fraud of social friendship." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. Good morning. Well, we asked the Lehendakari during Question Time a question to the Lehendakari on this issue, but we also considered it appropriate to address an inquiry to the Councilwoman and Vice-Lehendakari, responsible for Lanbide. As we all know, social aid fraud has again been reported. A new scam that exceeds a million euros, perpetrated by an organized gang, in which there have been 23 arrests, including a Senegalese citizen, who was the head of the gang. In this scam, in which 62 false identities have been used, all kinds of checks have been mocked with forgery of course not sophisticated - but quite the contrary - passports, registration certificates, medical certificates, training courses. In short, a whole chain of falsifications, covering different areas, committed without the slightest scruple; falsifications, we would say, of a person's entire itinerary and journey when receiving this type of aid. What has drawn our attention is that the Employment Adviser, and the Government itself, have tried to paralyse themselves in the alleged complexity of this plot for its detection and making available to the police and, where appropriate, justice. By the way, the National Police, which we congratulate on this police operation, was the one that dismantled this plot that acted with impunity. Yes, we would like to know about this particular issue, although a question has also been asked to the internal affairs officer himself, how the control systems within Lanbide have worked: why did the controls fail; if this issue really, this alleged case of fraud at first was detected by Lanbide officials or workers; if it was brought to the notice of the link that exists, the said commissioner, between Lanbide and the Ertzaintza... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... Lanbide workers; whether it was brought to the notice of the link that exists, the said commissioner, between Lanbide and the Ertzaintza, or not. What are the protocols of collaboration between Ertzaintza and Lanbide, which in the end have made them not work properly to detect a scam of these characteristics. And, if so, if there could have been any kind of inhibition in the assumption of any function by any specific person who had to have placed this system, who had to have put the controls, and put it in the Ertzaintza for investigation. What has clearly been re-emphasized is that controls are clearly non-existent, or the few that may be, because if internally this alleged case of fraud has already been detected, which has subsequently been found, they have clearly not been effective. Another question that we also ask ourselves is why we are now considering the creation of an inspection unit – which is reflected in the bill itself for the guarantee of income and social inclusion – an inspection service, if, as the adviser and the rest of the government say, these cases of fraud are so minimal, why has not such an inspection unit been created so far?, why have some, when this group proposed the creation of an inspection unit, an inspection system in the law in force in 2008, which also participated in the processing, been told directly that we were criminalizing poverty?, why have we been announcing the creation of inspection units, control units, and we have never seen them? You too, the unity that you raise, yes, is now in the law, so I hope that you will equip it properly to verify compliance with the requirements, not only initially access, at the time of access to the benefit, but also throughout the collection of the benefit, and that there will be no abusive situations, no irregularities, no scams. Because I have to tell you, Mrs Vicelehendakari, that we have been demanding an inspection service from the People's Party since 2008, the year in which this law was passed. On the other hand, we believe that abuses, irregularities in the collection of GIR cannot be minimized. These situations are clearly not seen until they come to light and are discovered, like the news of this scam, for an amount of more than EUR 1 million, which we have just known. Therefore, quantifying irregularities, abusive situations, fraud, is not easy until they come out. That is why I do not believe that, and I say this with all due respect, there is much credibility and no basis for it, because when Mr Zupiria, spokesman for the Basque Government, says that fraud cases are minimal, there is permanent control to detect them, and it is also worse that there is permanent control to detect them. Or when you point out that the fraud situations are 0.45%, that is, they will talk about fraud cases, such as those we have known throughout 2021, which are 267, and that we have also known that they have doubled, as President Iturgaiz has said, in the first four months. Therefore, we will talk about data when fraud cases are detected, they come out, but we cannot say that fraud represents such a percentage, because we do not know it. When this scam had not been detected for this amount of EUR 1 million, or that of three years earlier for an amount of EUR 4 million, we did not know that there were these cases of fraud, but they were. We did not compute them, because they were not, rather, computed, but they were; therefore, I think we should talk about percentages when we do not really know the fraud, abuses and irregularities that exist in the social aid system, because it is a direct song in the sun. We are defending a just support system in which the people who may need it are really in. A system of social aid which, of course, is not a glue for those who want or intend to abuse it. And, of course, we understand that we cannot minimize or want to cover a case such as the one we are dealing with of such magnitude, which once again highlights the shortcomings of the system. And we understand that the government cannot look elsewhere. It said the lehendakari in this morning's answer. It is a good thing that fraud is emerging, but what is this government going to do to bring about fraud, because it is clear that now, in this situation, controls have not worked. It has been clearly found that they are not effective, and above all, it may be that the workers themselves detect these situations, and when they are made aware of them, they are not sufficiently investigated. So, when the lehendakari also said that fraud is serious, and we are going to pursue it, the specific question we ask him is what they are going to do. Is it your Government's intention to establish more controls or controls necessary to prevent these situations of abuse or irregularities and fraud in the recovery of social aid in the Basque Country? I know that you are going to answer me that you are in it, that it is a situation that worries you, that there can be no case of fraud, that you have created or are going to create a specific inspection unit, and that is also covered by the bill. It's just that we didn't come here a long time ago talking about creating a specific unit. There was a specific group of the Ertzaintza dedicated to detecting these situations, what it has done, what it does, because this fraudulent situation has not discovered it precisely the Ertzaintza, and I would like to acknowledge the work they do in all areas, and also in this one. But it is clear, Madam Counsellor, that controls fail, that controls are not enough, that the very controls that may exist, that exist in the law, because they do not apply. I do not know whether it can be a lack of personnel, a lack of diligence, a proper assumption of functions in the verification of requirements, both at the time of access to the system and throughout the payment of the benefit. But it is clear, as I said before, that the system for nothing can be a glue for those who want to abuse it, because this is to the detriment of all Basques who we pay for this social aid with our money, and it is to the detriment of a society of solidarity, as we are the Basque. It's just that I believe in solidarity, but for that it has to be constituted, or we have... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...social aid, and it goes to the detriment of a society of solidarity, as we are the Basque. It is that I believe in solidarity, but for this it has to be constituted, or we have to have a fair support system, in which these situations clearly do not fit. Because solidarity is first and foremost social justice, and we cannot afford that in the system that exists these situations are so damaging to it and to the credibility of the protection system in Euskadi. Besterik gabe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u69	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Mountain to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u70	Thank you. Good morning. Mrs. Garrido. Going to the literal of her question about what we intend to do, the Director General of Lanbide explained it last Friday in a performance, precisely at her request. Even if you didn't attend, perhaps because of agenda problems, although I hope you were able to review the recording. He does not ask anything that day, already known as the scam, nor in the more than 1,300 initiatives that his group has promoted in this legislature. Therefore, no doubt on your part all this time. That is already a scale of the dimension of the problem we are talking about, and of course we do not deny it. That in this House we all consider fraud to be a problem to be addressed, but no one has considered fraud to be the problem that has neither Lanbide nor Income Guarantee Income. And that's data from the noise. And that's not minimizing anything, it's just explaining things on their fair terms. And the Chambers have recently reported tax fraud, and this amount more than the overall budget of the GIR for the Supplementary Housing Benefit, and even the IMV. But I have no intention of diverting myself from the reason for your questioning, which is a serious case. The National Police is talking about a criminal organization with strategies, according to their report, to prevent Lanbide from detecting them. This police operation has obviously been made possible by Lanbide's full cooperation. The defendants have been arrested, the courts have released them, and the identities used to receive social benefits no longer receive them. And I'm talking about the fake identities that have been used to scam Lanbide in an organized way, because we don't know so much about the police report, and we don't know if other administrations have also been timid with that fake documentation. What has become clear is that Lanbide has worked fully and fully with the National Police, in this case, in previous cases, in the present, and will continue to do so in the future, both with the National Police and with the Ertzaintza and with the local police. The court has never contacted us, even though Lanbide was the victim of this scam. That is why we have turned to the Prosecution Directorate of the Basque Government for people in the case. Lanbide has also been anticipated and we have asked for access to all the information in the file, because there are things in this plot that ask Lanbide, and that Lanbide cannot respond without accessing that documentation. Until yesterday we couldn't, because they don't allow us access, and it has been impossible, therefore, to know more details. And there are already four volumes in court, and there will be more because they are pre-trial. What Lanbide knows is that on 23 March the management received an alien trade by requesting information on several identities followed by two more trades in April and May, with no more information than a file number. That Lanbide collected all the information requested and handed it over to the Judicial Police, under the established procedure on the guarantee of data protection to individuals. And that from there, Lanbide has knowledge of the police operation and its scope when the National Police decides to make it public. It is there, at no other time before, when we know that thanks to Lanbide's collaboration, what the National Police has called a criminal organization has been dismantled. By then, the identities that were under suspicion, as I said, were already suspended in the benefits, were no longer deceiving Lanbide. And as for the measures to be taken, they are reflected, as you well know, in the law that we have been dealing with, which has been public for more than a year. These measures are therefore not taken in this case, nor in the case of fraud. But for a much more effective management of the provision, which is guaranteed with the people it receives, and rigorous in the management of public resources. But now we're going to the front. And it's important because there's been talk of bumps, multiple evidence, complaints from unattended workers... and a whole litany. The Directorate of Benefits and Inclusion established a year ago, in its meetings with the heads of the offices, echoed their concerns. Public workers have an obligation to report the existence of a possible crime. But the channel was imprecise. And there is an agreement with the Ertzaintza that serves to facilitate this process for the worker, which must be carried out at the relevant police station - but in no case in Lanbide. So how should workers proceed? Well, Lanbide is finalizing an instruction, which has been working with office officials and trade union representatives for a long time, because this procedure requires details, and requires the worker to identify himself at the request of the judge. That is why I also inform you that in order to offer this support to the staff when faced with a well-founded suspicion, I wanted to consult with the Office of the High Prosecutor of the Basque Country, which could be the most effective and most assured way to do so in cases where there is suspicion of fraud. So I'm going to give you the data in front of the noise. There is a channel; there is a working group in this area; there is a form for initiating any action with full legal certainty. This is also important, because past experience shows that there have been suspensions in the past of cases which have subsequently been revoked by the courts. And a fraud, it's a management hole. The suspensions of the benefit without justification are also so. And in addition, it deepens the vulnerability of these people. And we can't forget that. Thirdly, last year it collaborated with the police on 267 occasions on which an investigation was found to be well-founded. It was the same as in the 224 of this year, without the same amount or noise on the part of any group. Lanbide, you've never stopped collaborating to tackle any attempt at deception. And that data, the one that comes out, is obviously relevant. But I'll also explain how Lanbide works, which I think is important. Last year, 12.8 million interoperability actions were carried out to ensure that the benefits were properly managed. It's data crosses with... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... year carried out 12.8 million interoperability actions, to ensure that the benefits are managed properly. They are data crossings with different institutions: Social Security, municipalities and deputations... Inside and outside of Euskadi. And what we've been through this year is already over 8 million. Maybe he doesn't say anything, but it's the triple four years ago and that means everything. It means that the connection with all the other administrations, with which we can contrast data automatically, is done automatically and allows the review of situations that can be reviewed and updated; a better service, because it speeds up all the procedures to the collectors; a better management to avoid undue situations due to delays in the paperwork. Has this prevented fraud? Well, obviously not. Have you avoided possible fraud attempts? That's something no one can assure, because without being sentenced by the courts we can't be talking about fraud. But this is the most effective way to ensure that benefits reach those who are entitled and to prevent a euro from being taken away who is not entitled. And this is data, Mrs. Garrido. And this interoperability and effective management affects not only benefits, but not only Lanbide. It affects the whole scope of the administrations' relationship. And in that Euskadi stands at the head in a notorious way with respect to other autonomous communities. We can give you the ratio of Madrid, for example by choosing a link, it is 22 times more than that of the Community of Madrid that we do in Euskadi. And fourth. There is a new law in place that improves procedures and checks. I am not going to go into the detail of it, because I have already had the opportunity to explain it in this House, so we gave explanations of each and every part of the law and there was not a single question or doubt on your part. And as I told you before, it was detailed last Friday by the director of Lanbide, also without questions from you, in this case, because you were not present. Therefore, Mrs Garrido, it has not happened, it does not happen, nor is it going to ignore a single substantiated complaint, nor a single suspicion. It has not ceased to respond, nor will it fail, nor will it fail to respond to a single claim for cooperation in investigations departing from any of the police forces. When this happens, the benefit is suspended in the event that it is available, and there is an internal articulated way to improve procedures with legal certainty for workers. So these are the facts in front of the noise. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u72	I understand that you do not like the noise that this group makes, but I must say that in the legitimate opposition and opposition work that has given us the representation that we have in this Parliament - and to you, of course, the responsibility to govern, which is in the government - we will continue to denounce these kinds of situations and the shortcomings that we believe exist in the protection system in Euskadi, which are many and you know them too, because we have also had the opportunity to talk about them on many occasions. I think you know that this is not the first time that I myself - because I am well responsible for my group to carry this matter - every time a situation of these characteristics occurs, we make it clear. I think noise is not, I think it is our obligation and they will like it more or less, but these situations, of course, must be put on the table, more than anything because they require explanations and more than anything because they generate a social alarm and more than nothing because it is in the conversations on the street. Of course I am, I can assure you. Because in the end this costs us all Basque citizens a lot of money and a lot of effort and we are a solidarity society. And when a society is united, the least that can be demanded is that it be acted with responsibility by the public authorities and the institutions and each from the responsibility it bears. You in this case as a counselor of this matter, responsible for this matter, to put in sufficient means to detect these kinds of situations and of course not to minimize them, because people certainly do not take them laughing, nor make noise, nor take them horny, because it is their money, it is the money of all Basques. And the detection of a single case of these, a single case of these, which in this case is more than EUR 1 million, is serious enough to make a reflection. And do not re-install – as this government usually does – in self-complacement and victimism and that others come to attack and do not know what kind of speeches. Well, no, Counselor, it's our obligation. And it is our obligation when we see above that the Basque Government and those responsible, systematically and throughout all these years, do not put in place sufficient means to detect these kinds of situations, because they do not. We are in conversation with workers in Lanbide and they are telling us that many such situations are detected, that in the end they follow us their course and that they follow us their course. Therefore, the protocols are not working properly, the protocols of collaboration between Lanbide and Ertzaintza. And controls are either non-existent or effective, but it's clear that something doesn't work. Of course, you're telling me you're completing an instruction. I imagine that if this case wasn't as serious and minimized fraud as they have done, then I don't know why they're finishing (lesson?), or was there no instructions? That I understand there would be instructions. It would not be enough to detect such cases. You have decided to review this case. But it's just that they're reviewing it now when, when does a new case come up? So, obviously you're recognizing that there are flaws in the system. Which I'm glad to see. I'm glad you're reviewing an instruction, but what have you waited for a fraud case to come up to review an instruction? And how were the instructions working? Wasn't that enough? Didn't they work properly? Didn't you two get along? Of course, you should explain this issue, because the truth is that it raises a lot of doubts. Look, we're studying the bill and we're going to be demanding. And if you really want to create that inspection unit, really to control fraud, whatever it is, because a single case is enough to generate a situation of concern and alarm in Basque society. And it is and you know it, because these issues are on the street, which is falling into the octopus, that people are having a bad time and that yes, we are a... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... the situation of concern and alarm in Basque society. And it is, and you know it, because these issues are on the street, that the octopus is falling, that people are having a bad time, and that yes, we are a society in solidarity with those who need it, but that doesn't mean that we get caught up in it and that there are people who use the system as a glue to abuse it. And, therefore, if you want to create that inspection unit you will have our support, but that, yes, not a ghost inspection unit, an inspection unit that really works and serves to detect these kinds of situations, and of course, that these cases are detected, and of course, that you can say that the system works properly, and that we have a system right where the people who really need it are, because we believe in a system of aids, yes, but abuses, no.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u73	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u74	Well, man, Mrs. Garrido, if it doesn't sound loud enough to ask for this counselor's resignation, I think... What I have done in my first shift is to offer data to the questions you asked, and I will repeat them to you in case it seems opportune: more interoperability than ever to ensure good management, so that the benefits reach those who need it and not those who pretend to deceive; Lanbide's maximum collaboration with investigations that have allowed to disrupt organizations like this, according to the Police; maximum legal certainty in all procedures, both for Lanbide staff and to avoid resources, which, as has happened in the past, are revoked, and Lanbide has to end up paying again, and fourthly, minimal concern of his party over this issue all this time, acknowledge it to me. The instruction, I must tell you, is from before this case was known publicly, and it is, moreover, for it to be done with legal certainty. On the other hand, Mrs. Garrido, you and I have known each other for many years. You have my cell phone at your disposal. The only time we had a meeting to talk about Lanbide was at my request. Other parliamentary groups with which I may not have shared, other parliamentarians, as much common history as you and I in this Parliament, and which also do not have my telephone number, however, have contacted me or members of my department, and we have held multiple meetings, both of Basque Nationalists, Socialists, EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos. We have talked about Lanbide and we have also talked, because they have shown interest, about the new Income Guarantee Income Law. Then you talk about gross documentary manipulations. Well, I have to make it clear to you that the media that broadcast a paper referring to Osakidetza, that file, as well as it did not type the name of the person holding that certificate, we were able to verify the file, and it does not work in the possession of that... it does not work in that file. Therefore, I do not know when the National Police will have found it, or where other causes or administrations will have been used, but it has never been used to deceive Lanbide workers. And then, also tell him that we, already the last legislature told us the Data Protection Agency, that comes to tell us that all the doors of Lanbide are the same for all people, that is, that there is no door for companies to enter, another for income-guarantee income collectors to enter, and another a little bit smaller for immigrants to enter. You also say that the cases have been doubled. What we do is our work effectively, together with technologies, such as interoperability. And I don't think you're fooled any more, we're simply much more effective at controlling the benefit. And I must tell you, Mrs. Garrido, that I do not avoid any responsibility, what I say is to discover a plot, and decide what a plot is, to resolve what a plot is, it is not Lanbide's responsibility, it has never been and it will not be. Lanbide works for effective management and in efficiency is also plugging the cracks, as happens to all administrations. I have given you a data that is not from Lanbide, it is from the Observatory of the Electronic Administration with respect to the Basque Government and the comparison with other administrations. If Lanbide, in your opinion, is a colliery, what can be happening in the Community of Madrid, where interoperability hardly exists? It may well be something else, because they do not have aid in the Community of Madrid, they certainly do not have rights like the Basque Income Guarantee. And a second question, also linked to the word colladero, which you very much like to use, and always referred to migrant people. I want to say three things with the clear commitment of the Basque Government and the majority of this Parliament. If Lanbide were a colliery, having the best social protection system, the immigration rate would not be three points lower than the Spanish average. If Lanbide were a colliery, the immigrant population would not have incentives to work, and it turns out that we are in the highest historical affiliation, not only of the population as a whole, but very expressly of the migrant collective. And if Euskadi were a colliery, no one would die trying to cross the Bidasoa to go to France. That's data, Mrs. Garrido. We will therefore continue to work towards more effective and more secure management. That is what we are trying to do in the transformation that we have launched in Lanbide, and what we will do when Parliament passes this law that we have under way in this House. Faced with the noise, Mrs. Garrido, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the Wild Houseer and the Members of the Council of the Book of Staff, the Second Vice President, and the Chief of Staff and Employment, to secure the needs of the house-workers concerning the right of a collective negotiation." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u76	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. The mountain chief, the last time I could ask you, we talked about domestic workers' conditions. And at that moment, at the same time, a collective agreement made by the LAB union for two years was just proposed. And I think we ought to put the case in value for this proposal: two years together, on Sundays... No? It was a process done by the staff of the house under the conditions required. And I think it was time to reflect even in unionism how to approach the feminised sectors in their own way, to rethink the practice and politics, is it not? And today we have a chance to ask if you're doing these things in the Eplee Department. He gave the roads... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It was time to rethink, wasn't it? And today we have a chance to ask if you're doing these things in the Eplee Department. He gave a few fruits besides the workers of the house, because they made a collective pact. And after a few months, several unions joined the proposal, they went to negotiate, but Confebas refused to participate in it. And in front of this situation, we wanted to ask you: What would you do before Confebask's collective negotiation of domestic employees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Houseowner. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u78	Mrs. Houseboy, good morning. Well, lehenengo eta behin, partakatu nahi ditut zuekin pare bi gauza. The great step of ratification of ILO Convention 189, which recognizes the rights of female domestic workers, and the enormous step that would mean that these recognized rights would be incorporated into conventions. As you know very well, from my department we have not in any case positioned ourselves on the views of the negotiating parties to the conventions ever. Because it is my obligation to respect the will of the legitimated parties to negotiate a collective agreement and also to guarantee their freedom to accept or disagree. I therefore hope that these employees will be able to advance their rights, and I hope that it will be through the instrument that the ILO also recognizes social actors: collective bargaining, which has made it possible in history to guarantee more rights, also to this collective.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u80	Yes, we know you can't have that position, but we believe you have the chance of being a proactive attitude. We know what jurisdictions are, we respect that. But at this moment we believe that when we have signed a nation's alliance for equality, others have a new law of equality, which says that we need a collective complication around the care sector or the surveillance system, in front of those departments where the extreme preparation is being opened, we believe that this section may have a vital tendency to adapt these possibilities, and give way to them; because many of these workers have accepted the basic rights. And you said it yourself, and we see it in a very good way, and we're on the side of it, OIT's 189. But today is the time to develop that and to poulterate it on specific instruments. You're out of business, aren't you? Because they didn't have the right to do that. The settlements of the actual salary, a decent salary, a year's pension, we'll have a chance of turning it all over with this 189, but here in the Euscal Autonomy, these rights may be a way of doing this in our territory. And on Wednesday, too, it is said at the Plant Strategian Plant, where you introduced it in this legislature, that you have as a purpose as an el de Contribute e incrementian el porcentle de personas con coberta negucición coctiva. We have a general frame in the compact and the law of equality. We've got a political proposal at the World Extra. And he clearly insists that both were connected, and that the collective compact of the household workers should be provocative. As the representative of the Patronal, Confebas is a subject whose legality is to complete this discussion table. Not knowing Patronal because Confebask has to take responsibility. So, what is this government willing to do to promote it? Are the two chief representatives of the public and private sector willing to do things differently? Will you be willing to take precautions for domestic workers? The frame of what is possible seeks to condemn to misery, and let us break it. I think we have a chance to do things differently through this active attitude. Thank you, Chief Mountain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u82	I think we share the concern about the situation of female domestic workers, and I think I am not mistaken if I say that female domestic workers are the most precarious workers among the precarious. And, in addition, they are employed whose functions in practice are superimposed and undefined. Because domestic workers are the ones who perform cleaning tasks, but also those who care for dependent people. Clearly, they do not enjoy the working conditions they deserve for their important social work. And I want to take this opportunity to acknowledge that without them, many also immigrants, it would be impossible to look after our elders today in Euskadi. They are playing an essential role in our society, and they must do so under decent working conditions and with adequate legal regulation. That is why the ratification of this convention is so important, as this House had requested on many occasions for a decade now. That is why it is so important that the way be started to expand the labour rights of these workers and to put an end to historical discrimination. But I remind you it's not the first step. The rise in the inter-professional minimum wage has also been essential in the last four years. Also that Osalan has expressly addressed the prevention of his specific occupational risks in his tasks, because occupational health is also part of his charter of rights. And it has been a great precedent that during the pandemic the household workers were entitled for the first time in history to unemployment. Something extraordinary that now, with this ratification, will be regulated as usual. But within the home employees, around 30% could not even opt for that right because they did not have a contract. Because among the precarious, there are even more precarious. And it is not unscrupulous entrepreneurs who do not discharge these women in Social Security, there are many and many families, also workers, who make use of the vulnerability of the poorest. And that must challenge us as a society. We are talking about the submerged economy, which is also in the action of the Labour Inspectorate, as you know. But we must assume that primarily care cannot be done at the expense of other people's labour rights. That's why the department I run is also developing ZAIN LAB, an absolute innovation program... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... may be carried out at the expense of the labour rights of other persons. Therefore, the department I run is also developing ZAIN LAB, a program of absolute innovation in this area, to train and qualify these people in care. And I want those women to have a good collective agreement. Yes, of course I do. Like the rest of the working people following the rules of legitimacy and representativeness that are in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the legislature of the Ostero Galirdos, to the EHG of EEcon, to the head of the Department of Economomy and Environment, about the gas-gloration in the Basque territory." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u84	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Today, in the Basque Country, I'm here looking for your commitments against the expense of gas, to get some real commitment, because I have some doubts. I dare say that in this critical crisis, in a very general way, two tendencies are rising. On the one hand, the climatical crisis, which will be used to accelerate the transition (... .). And on the other hand, it's a sort of ritual and geolitical crisis that wants to be used to keep pushing hydrocarbular bubbles. Secretary of the United Nations, he's on the first team. Mr Guterres has made it clear not to take advantage of the hydrocarbular crisis to continue pushing them. And I'd say that's European Committee, too. Transition speeding from neuroptic, releasing retracts, speeding the end of the gas. That's what they said. Zure koadrila ordea, dago village beasts. Your gangs, your colleagues, are elsewhere, the fossil part. And they're also coming up, lately. And some are dropping it, and others speak more boldly. And among all we are generating a broth of cultivation to continue with the racca racca of gas exploration in this country. The director of the EVE, the deputy general of Álava, began: "A pity that cannot be explored... You should know what's... The law doesn't allow it..." Zuk ere adierazpen kontraesankorrak egin dituzu: "Ez dago gaza, ez dellako aztertu nahi". And with that base, people are coming up. Josu Jon Imaz is clearly extending the veto to new concessions, or the Director of the Energy Cluster, a little more speed up, and says literally: "First we should explore the resource, and second we should analyze which technique and with which the level of risk should be used to explore that resource; whether it should be through fracking or another technique." I mean, it already introduces the fracking debate again. And of course, in all this broth of cultivation comes the rivet. The president of Bahía Bizkaia Gas, that 50% of the Basque Energy Agency, already in plan subject me to the total tank - and excuse the words, but they are the ones I use - says in an interview to the radio: "They say we open the debate. I dare go beyond that. That's a hell of a debate. Let's explore what we've got under one hell of a time." I said to myself, look, at last, someone makes clear, authoritarianly, that yes, but it makes clear what it is saying, txutxu-mutxu artean, zure inguruan dagoen jende asko. I mean, this is the one in the back when the license is removed. And I ask you: Do you want to continue to feed this? Or do you want to make it clear? I mean, what's your real position in front of the production of the Basque Country gas?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Otero, good morning. Chief departments, members of the legislature, good morning first. Mr. Otero. I tell you the truth, my gang don't talk about this. Friday, Saturdays and Sundays we don't talk about this. Well, maybe it's in yours. I'll confirm something. In the April 10th, 2021, like fun, not just like I'm the head of the department, but just as I was, and once it was accepted by the climate change, then in Congress, we said we wouldn't investigate or exploit the gas, and we'd go through... not that we would pass by, and that all our efforts would be put aside, and that our reassembled energy might be examined by the amount of gas, examined and developed by intelligent electrical networks. That was our attitude, and that's what it is. Another thing, as you know, is that we live at this moment in a completely complicated state in the world, because many things have happened. And we must speak also at this moment, not only of our policy, but of our policy, and it is plain; and we confirmed our engagements besides, that you were the last in Scotland. ), and our goals are set there. But it's true that after the Ukraine crisis, even with what's happening in Algiers, even with what's going on in Algiers, we have to protect the safety of some kind of supplies and make sure of it. I think you've been through these yesterday, and you've got to look at a security in Europe. And with that, and with these matters, our entire commitment. There is therefore no change in what has happened. Now, we're talking about we still need gas, we have to make that transition. Yes, but we still need gas; and how are we going to ensure that we have that supply and where it's going to come from. And when we talk about that we are actually collecting a gas, which is not a gas that comes from other places, and that coming is through a pipe or through a ship, in LNG form, that also involves very relevant emissions, and an important social situation. So one doesn't take away the other. Now, our strategy is clear: the same as we said on April 10, 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u88	I'm glad to hear that. It's not the same thing to say, "The law doesn't admit it," or "we don't want our strategy to go somewhere else." And I think you have to say everything you've said here today. I have followed with great attention the round table organized for them in Cebek. And in front of you, Josu Jon Imaz spoke of the pernicious nature of article nine of Spain's Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, which did not allow new hydrocarbons to be granted, and that the energy transition was being damaged, etc., etc. Of course, Imaz is not a sage altruist who speaks for the general interest. Imaz is a CEO of the largest hydrocarbon company, well paid, that... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and so on. Of course, Imaz is not a sage altruist who speaks for the general interest. Imaz is a CEO of the largest well-paid hydrocarbon company, which, well, what he is dedicated to is precisely selling hydrocarbons. Nik, berak hitz egin zuenean, esan nuen: "Ostra, orin bai. Orin Arantxak Snake gave, he's gonna put it in his place. And he's going to say, "Hey, Mr. Imaz, I remind you that that law..., I'm from the PNV, and that law was approved by the PNV." Baina zuk ez zenion hori esan. Or, at least, I thought I'd say, "We are aligned with the European policies you are criticising." Bath hours were ez zenion esan. Or, at least, already in practice, he will say: "Hey, but if you have not invested anything. Now what are you complaining about?". I think that's the right thing to say in every place, here and in front of the company, and when they talk in front of Imaza, because they're looking at something else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u89	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u90	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I think that we have spoken more than once, and have always said that the transition is a duty, that we protect our goals and fully accept them. But you must have heard me say that this transition must be planned and that it must be done well. We've placed a lot of targets looking at 2050, and in the last week, in the last few weeks, when we say there's no car in 2035 unless there's electric foods. Well, maybe we should consider what we're really talking about. And we are talking about fluids, CO2 fluids. And they can make it quite different for us to plan it. So, the targets are clear. And what we say is: Let's plan it. And in our worldly strategy, at this moment, I repeat: I have spoken here more than once of the great parks, and in other places have been smaller, the community being all. The new Hydrogen technology, as fast as possible, will not be removed from the middle of the gas in a day, and the deposit we need is absolutely necessary. That's our strategy, in which we confirm our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Muriel Larre Lasoa, Popularo-Populara-Ciudadan's parliamentary development of Economics, patience, and the chief department of the Environment, concerning environmentaldelies." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u92	Good morning. Thank you, mahaiburu andrea. Good morning, councillors, Members of Parliament. Mrs Tapia, after a controversial adoption of the Environmental Administration Act and after several years of environmental catastrophes in the Basque Country and, above all, of the knowledge we have recently had of environmental and ecological crimes, which make Basque society, that Basques, have a series of... a great difficulty in knowing and believing in the measures that the Department of the Environment implements to eradicate this type of crime. And I'm going to give you examples. Well, the bloodiest, the most heart-turned was Zaldibar's, but it was also the inspections that were carried out in Zalla, a spill of ammonia in Zubieta, the spills in Glefaran, which we recently knew of the imputation of Elena Moreno and Iván Pedreira, who were rewarded with another post in another department of this government if perhaps for a mismanagement in the Department of Environment. And with regard to all this and all the discredit that Basque citizens can have on the protection of the environment or on the work that is done to determine whether environmental crimes are being committed in the Basque Country, I wanted to know your assessment, Mrs Tapia, of the so-called Environmental Administration Act that was recently passed in this Parliament. And know how you value what is being done as a result of that implantation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Muriel, Miss Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u94	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Larrea. Polemic? There would be controversy in the debate. It was passed by a majority, like so many other laws. Otherwise, it would be impossible to approve them. Natural disasters and environmental crimes are two different things. And we will distinguish them and we will speak well of them, because, if not, we generate a situation that is not real. In that law, which we adopted in December, the aim is to simplify administrative procedures, while being also a guarantor with the procedure, and to seek effective protection of the environment. That is what is intended with the best techniques. In its article 1, referring to the issues we are talking about, it comments: "Facilitate the functioning of environmental administration by simplifying and unifying administrative procedures, regulating intervention techniques on activities with environmental impact". In other words, it amplifies, forgive me, the action, not only those activities that have integrated environmental authorization, but those that can generate environmental problems. Therefore, the action is amplified using the same procedure as in the integrated environmental authorization actions. In addition, effective monitoring, control and inspection mechanisms are established. In this regard, it should be noted that there are three articles, three full titles, dealing with regulation, environmental inspection and control, the restoration of environmental legality and liability for environmental damage and the environmental sanctioning regime, which may have two types of actions: one, if the environmental offence is merely an administrative offence, or those covered by the Criminal Code. Therefore, with perfect certainty of what is to be done. Moreover, in March of the 22nd we approved the Environmental Inspection and Control Programme, which has nine different programmes or nine lines of action. And that in the one subjected to prevention and control refers to 147 activities in what it does... with regard to integrated environmental authorisation, with 46 companies having an annual frequency, another 46 on a biennial frequency, 42 on a three-year frequency and 13 without established frequency. And, in addition, beyond those activities that are regulated by the IPPC, that is, by integrated environmental authorization, an inspection of 225... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of these activities which are regulated by the IPPC; i.e. by integrated environmental authorisation, an inspection of 225 different operators likely to have environmental responsibility in air quality, waste management and so on will be carried out. In addition to providing for other types of action in which there is a complaint, some action that we must take as a result of neighbouring situations that oblige us to modify the action being taken at this time and to carry out a more thorough inspection. That's the plan for this year. That's what the regulations say and that's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Tapia, very briefly. Of course, I know exactly what the difference is between natural disasters and environmental crimes. There are times when environmental crimes produce catastrophes or collapses, which are of a great natural nature that worries the Basques. But look, I'll tell you something else. While the law is so well done and so many centers and so many control programs exist. As it turns out, a few days ago, I guess your department will have had knowledge of what's going on in the Ametzaga and Araquil River by a company that's pouring into that river. It's three kilometers of dirt in that river that will be hard to recover. So, of course, what I want to say is that if there is greater control over a law that has just been passed, how can it be that you are not still working on that front or if you are not working, at least, why that river has not been cleaned up. I want to say that the control that the Department of the Environment is doing with this new Environmental Administration Act gives Basques the feeling that nothing has changed, because these types of crimes that are not the fault of the department continue to exist, but they do have to be well controlled by the department. And if they have the mechanisms, and they have just said so within their intervention, with the Environmental Administration Act which seeks to control companies that may have activities related to activities that are hazardous to the environment, they may have to deal with such situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u98	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, if we know the difference, let's use it, Mrs. Larrea. We will do the assessment of what we are going to do this year at the end of the year, of course, once we have assessed it, but let me say that in reference to the specific case that you set up, let us make a difference, and that is: we have an article on environmental inspection and control, which is what is being done, and in that case, they will have an administrative sanction in case of violation of the regulations, or they will even, if it is covered by the Penal Code, have another type of responsibility, and the corresponding complaint will have to be made. Another thing is that it is the company itself that performs this spill, or that environmental damage, or that excessive noise, or damaging the air quality, that restores environmental legality and is responsible for environmental damage. Another of the articles of the law. And the sanctioning regime also establishes it. Therefore, we read the law well and establish what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the yearly report sent by Joseph Manuel Gilegas to the popular team of the Ciudadans to the head of the Board of Education by the Child and Nerabean Offices of the Basque Law." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u100	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, Counselor. In the report presented by the Ararteko recently in this House, one can literally read: "Ararteko has had to respond to complaints from families who have come to denounce the absence of an educational offer of the A language model". In the same text, the Ararteko has recognized the legitimacy of these requests of the families, and has formally asked his department to solve this problem in a text that literally says: "The Ararteko has considered it necessary to transfer to the Department of Education the need to value how one can respond to requests for schooling such as those made by these families, which have been reinforced by their legitimization as a result of the last judicial pronouncements that have come to point out that the Castilian cannot be excluded as a teaching language". Therefore, Mr Councillor, I have to ask you the following question: what measures are you going to take, what concrete measures are your department going to take to meet this request from Ararteko, so that you can respond to the requests for schooling made by families who want their children to be able to study in Spanish, one of the two official languages of Euskadi, and the only language spoken by all Basques? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u101	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u102	Legebiltzarreko andrea president, Sailburuok, legebiltzarkideok, egun on, Gil jauna. There are many occasions when we have had the opportunity to discuss in this House the issues you raise through various questions, interpellations, non-legislative proposals, written answers, motions. Mr Gil, the debate on language models is an outdated debate, and this is reflected in the agreement of 7 April, endorsed by 90% of this House. Focusing on your question in response to requests for late incorporation into our educational system, i.e. requests from families for the schooling of students outside the ordinary time frame, the work of the school boards of each historical territory is activated, thus highlighting the rigorous work of these committees composed of inspection staff of the Centers and Planning Service and of educational innovation of the delegations. These commissions offer a personalized analysis to look for the option of schooling best suited to the needs of the student, and always in constant contact with the families to adapt, as far as possible, the finally chosen center... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and always in constant contact with families to adapt, as far as possible, the centre finally chosen to their preferences within the available possibilities. Personalized and close treatment in any case, and that, except in the case of exceptions, we fully satisfy the requests made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u103	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u104	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, Counselor. We are again in the same usual mess: the problem does not exist, the problem is scarce, the problem is irrelevant. Denialism in a pure state. As you say, this is a subject that we have talked about a lot, and I am afraid we will continue to talk because you are still solving it. You answer me that this is not a real debate. You answer me that the complaints are somewhat outdated. Why are they there? Why are there complaints? We can't deny that they exist. The Ararteko report has made it clear that there is still a problem, and that that problem is pending. In addition, the Ararteko asks you something that I have asked you many times from here: to solve the problem. Let him act as an education counselor for all Basques, and not just for the nationalist Basques. And I have heard no satisfactory answer today to the question I asked you and to the demand made by Ararteko. We have to solve this problem at once. The Ararteko says it very clearly, and I don't say it myself, nor does my group say it. If these families have always deserved attention and solutions, they are now more legitimized than ever by the latest court rulings. Spanish cannot be excluded as a teaching language. And what's your apartment doing? Well, all of Euskadi we've been hearing him deny the problem, give evasive, and, at the same time, with the other hand, agree with Bildu to reinforce the euskera to the detriment of the Castilian. And you gave it all to the new law that, of course, will not come into force the coming course. Euskadi needs to hear him clearly that at least the sentences will be respected. Because there are families that need to be solved now, with the instruments that we have now. And Ararteko also said it, with a very clear phrase: the task of Ararteko said to respect the law. And the law is like this for now. It should be for your apartment, too, but it hasn't been done for many years. And in relation to the new law, the four nationalist groups put forward a multilingual model with Basque as their axis. So, we have no choice but to think about what the families who want the Castilian as a axis are going to be left. We still do not know exactly what "as axis" means, but we also bet on a trilingual model, Mr. Counsellor. But we do not consider that either of the two official languages should be an axis of anything, because then there will be the other subordinate. Are you going to guarantee a minimum of every language in that bill? Are you going to allow centers within this model to give more weight to the Basque than to the Castilian? Or the other way around: are you going to let there be centers that give more weight in Spanish?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u105	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u106	Gil jauna, as I indicated in my previous speech, there is no debate about the freedom of choice and the language models of our system. We must go to the literality of the agreement that I have mentioned before and which you have also mentioned. We defend an inclutive general pattern, which supports the knowledge of two official languages, and of a foreign language, which will always acknowledge the original language and culture of the students. The school boards are working on a permanent and coordinated basis to ensure the will of families to choose the educational model, even outside the regular school period. The Schooling Commission as a collegiate body uses objective criteria that we have already transferred to it in writing on 25 April, and are: criteria of proximity from the centre to the family home; criteria of availability of places in the chosen centre; existence of brothers or sisters already in school. But also criteria of inclusive and balanced schooling, and criteria of schooling in the offer of available linguistic models of the area of influence, taking into account factors such as the age of the student. The freedom of choice of families is a right that assists them, and it is a right that families exercise in a conscious and responsible manner. Families freely choose the model they consider most appropriate for their children, which does not mean that it coincides with their own. We will continue to adapt our educational offer responsibly to the demands of our educational community, our society and its socio-linguistic reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u107	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with Podemos-Nozzer, a member of the Antiz Party, a member of the Board of Education, about drawing back works in several public schools in Durang. " Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u108	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chief physician. The Board of Education gave it for the studies between 19 and 23, if there is an extra axis of education in order to retrieve the kitchens by degrees. Thus it is, word by word: "The schools that make the kitchen witness selections in this place will be able to develop this option." But that assertion has little of the truth. The families of public schools are waiting for long enough to see when a new model of food-rooms will be built in their schools. Horregatik, Sailburu jauna, galdetzen diziut: What is the reason for the failure to perform the kitchen works provided for in the Infrastructure Plan?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u110	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Gonzalez andrea, as I have already indicated on other occasions, the Education Infrastructure Plan was originally conceived as a plan which envisaged the implementation of some 200 actions over those 5 years, and a budget projection which involved an initial forecast of EUR 338 million. Hainera, plan horrek indarrean... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] Años de vigencia, y una proyección presupusari que una previsión inicial de 338 milliones de euros. Moreover, this plan also allows us to enter into other activities while it is in force, considering its supple character and its integrated nature, and also because, every day, there are different needs. The Board of Education maintains the commitments to this plan, and the projects taken in the D Durangland region. Considering this flexible and integrated constitution, the division is also working with the City Hall of the City of Yonkers, which is situated on this plan for the Duangland region.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u111	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u112	Albert Einstein said, the example is not the best method of study, but the only method we have to learn. And therefore he that gives us examples, thinketh they shall be evident. There are six schools in Durang that have kept the kitchen, but they've been waiting for a long time for a new model. There are four other schools that have no kitchens, although they have asked for kitchens many years ago: Attendo, Mattiena, Orbiotoi, and Lingarian. Past school, waiting for the school family to fill up the Boards' commitments long ago. It's the case with the math school. The case is too bad. There are kitchen plans, but in your own words: "As the new model of farm management is not compatible, you have answered that you will not build a kitchen." The Orbiotantiist school was to be built last year. The school begins with the continuous practice and you refused to build the kitchen on the pretext that the registration was dropped. It's open at school. Our Lumber. You were supposed to build the kitchen this second semester, but apparently you're going to work next summer. Third delay. And the bitterest example of the School of Achodo. Last year you decided to change your work by delaying your architects in the summer of this year. After you've been waiting for the whole course, you've decided that the company responsible for the job was an offer and you decided to change the company. And you've told your family that you're not going to work this summer. These [are] the heads of the two divisions, Cristina Uriart, and two chief chiefs of the divisions, the Lizard and the Shebier A sigh, two techniques, Polez Urquijo and Ane Urkio, two architects and two companies. You say that it is impossible to change the pattern from the point of view of opposition, and to take this pretended inability as an excuse, you have abandoned the kitchen building. Food patterns and kitchens are different concepts. Don't confuse me, please. And he was even less concerned about it by using it to justify himself. If we build the kitchen, it's the dining patterns we defend. What must these public schools feel, and the families of many other schools we have not mentioned? You didn't keep your word, and it doesn't look like you're going to keep it in time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u114	Mrs. González, as I said before, is engaged with all the activities you've made on the infrastructure plan. In the case of the exact district in Durang, there are two projects recorded in it, two: What you have printed on the broad is−, the new kitchen, and the Fray Juan de Zuhandag, the screen for the school at the Second School. In the first case, in the Narrows, the new kitchen project is in the phase of writing. As far as the Fray Juan de Zuzinaga is concerned with the top of the Second Education, it is expected that in the second semester of 2022 this year, the preventive technicians will be able to determine the solutions of the construction of the lid. And then the Durango City of Sports: e - the technical work of options presented to move the sports lesson is also to be mentioned. This job has been made by the technical Board of Education in this legislation, and it will be possible to arrange a new building in order to respond to the needs connected with the education offer of the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u115	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 16th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, Together by Podemos-Nozzer, member of the Anizar Party, of the head of the Board of Education, about the closing of an HLHHIan School in the mountains of Ammon." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u116	Thanks again. Now we only learned that the Board of Education has decided to close a class in the public school of the Amurian Mountain. If we have to be honest, unfortunately, the decision hasn't taken us by surprise. For we hear more and more often the like news: that a public class has been shut down, or that in the worst case public schools have been shut down. I don't know, the rest of the teams, but at least it's hard for us to understand the situation. In fact, we decided to strengthen the Public Basque School in the Education treaty, and at the same time you're closing or closing classes in public schools. And, well, it's a contradiction. In order to explain the situation, Mr. Chief, we want to know what you're doing or what you're doing or what you do or what you do about closing a room in the public school of the Mountain of Ammon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours, Mr. Bilar. [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... as to closing a room in public school.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u119	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Miss Gonzalez, I'm not going to go in and see what you said to me, knowing it's not true. And I will continue in the neighbourhood of the Amberum, and I will not open it as you know many assertions which are not true. First of all, I'd like to explain that the Board of Education adapts the educational offer to students' school and the defaults to the families of the people. In the case of the Mother Mountain School, this is how it should be defined. During this year, at the year of school 2021-22, he has two lines of schools for each grade of education. In the case of child education, 21 to 22, 21 years old students from the beginning of the year and regular license. Considering that the 2-year-old ratio of rooms is 18 students, these students have divided themselves into two rooms. In addition, in the case of students schooled outside the ordinary period, −, in the case of living plates, was transformed into an application, and therefore it is believed that the students who have spent 2 years of education and education will be 22,23 in the school room three years old. There is no doubt that the rooms should be formed according to the needs of the schools, both in the beginning and in the school, in this case at 2 years, on the way to the descendants and stages. And the temporary adaptations needed to answer the request for every academic education are made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u121	There's always been a couple of classes for 3-year-old kids at the Amurian Mountain School, as you said. But next year he'll be one class. Educational department has been thus determined. And, let's see, the case is next. I, the data, to see it clear. There's this year... There are 24 children enrolled, one with special educational needs. And in this case, what did the department do? Send one to another center and leave the classroom with the student top they admit, which is 23. Of course, the point is, what's behind this decision? I mean, disappear forever? It should be borne in mind that for the next course you will already need two classrooms and that there is already a person of reinforcement in that classroom and that you have also signed an agreement with the unions for the maintenance of employment. So why don't the two classrooms stay in this class? Why don't you stay put? And it is also achieved that the family that is going to drift to another center, even if it is public, stays in the center that it has chosen. In addition, students with special educational needs can be given the necessary attention. And, well, and in general better attention to the whole group, because we imagine, or know, that having a classroom with the maximum studenthood can be difficult. We do not know exactly what the criterion is. Is it worth saving in education, as the Amurian fathers have shown in demonstrations? Is it worth saving in the formation of our children? We ask ourselves thus: Is it only the measure of the school that the decision to close the line? And in two years of study there will be two 3-year-old classes back at the Mountain School? Or if you're gonna close the class, you're not gonna listen to any definite deadlines and what you agreed to with the unions? Whatever the answer is, it's just once more that public school is a loser. They've been trying to solve the situation from the school manager. He has sent a letter to the manager of the schools at the Board of Education and the representative of the Board of Education, but there was no definite answer. We agree with the board of management, and especially with the public education of Ammon. We're afraid you're not going to make any more decisions like that weakening the public school...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u123	Look, I left precisely the forgotten paper where I put the data. Because in the other public center, which is less than 900 meters away, in another public center, in the 3-year-old classroom we have five students. Five students. Which is where this student goes. And in the next course, as you very well say, the two classrooms are recovered, in the signed agreement... precisely by applying the signed agreement with the unions. However, in order to complete the details I have given you, I will give you the information of the premium for the next year. According to the data we have about the two-year-old premium budget, two rooms will be completed in order to answer 36, 18 students in the class. As for the 3-year-old and p.m., in January, two other students gave their names to the 3-year-old room in the year 202223. As the ratio of education and education is 23 students, the room of three years will be composed of 23 students, accepting one of the requests made during the time of acceptance. Based on the admission criteria, and as families asked for a second chance, the second request will be sent to the House of Wide College at 900 feet. And education has been given by default in the offer of our public network. The Board of Education of the Arabs, and of Plangage, examines the number of students in each school at the previous year, and the demand for families. And according to this he adapts, organizes, and adapts the number of rooms in different educations and stages, according to the choice of established criteria and families. And I'm the only one who tells you, and I don't want to increase it... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the number of rooms in different educations and stages, according to the measures prescribed by the various families. And I only tell you, and I don't want to increase the difference. But do you really think that we're hating the public school with these data when we say that in another 3-year-old school there are five students in one room, two hundred yards away, two public schools, one student, 23, and we're saying that one of them must come here? Really? I don't think we have a public school... 'tis well and well to argue, but we do not do him any good in such disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u124	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo García Together Podemos, a member of the Antices, a member of the Board of Education, concerning the sum of the college scholarships." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u125	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, counselor. The amounts of scholarships for this course... that this course has enjoyed university students and students were signed a year ago. And at that time the calculations that were made for the granting of these scholarships were made under a premise of normality. Clearly, those forecasts have already been far exceeded by the current economic reality. The war in Ukraine, the rising price of light or gas have triggered the price of food, books or transportation. And this has drastically diminished the purchasing capacity of households. No one escapes, therefore, that the overflowing rise in prices is directly impacting people's lives. But, as always, inflation penalizes those who have less, in this case people with more needs and young people among them. It is estimated that an average of 1,000 euros per person will be lost this year. This is a daily economic evidence. And also another evidence is that we know that the university... the importance of education and education... and the... "Excuse me" and university education are important. We also know that university is not the only way for people... for people to build their future, but it is undeniable that university education has a leading role in the higher education of our young people here in Euskadi. This is clear from this year's EBAU data, for example. However, the starting point for university access is not the same for everyone. It is known that material conditions are decisive to continue the studies. And that is precisely why there are scholarships. Fellowships are the main instrument for guaranteeing equal opportunities, especially in the university system. This is supported by the Report on the Abandonment of University Studies, which was presented this year in March. Having these two premises, we ask whether the Department of Education plans to increase the amount of scholarships to compensate for the inflationary rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u126	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u127	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mr. Angulo, thank you for your questions. I would like to begin my speech by stating the essence of the policy of scholarships and public prices developed by the Department of Education, the pillars of which are, as you know, the equity and equal opportunities of all Basque students. Firstly, with regard to the prices of public higher education services at the University of the Basque Country, a policy of reduced public prices has been implemented in recent years. Prices that, being lower than their actual cost, have remained frozen since two thousand... from the course 2015-2016. And in the next course 2022-23 we will go even further, and the public prices of the first registrations of all grades will be reduced by 4.7%, the prices of the enabling and linked masters, for their part, will be reduced by 33.8%. All this is a clear demonstration of the Department of Education's objective of facilitating access to university studies for all Basque students. In the second place, as far as the Euscadian politics has been concerned, it has been strengthened in these recent events according to the necessity which has been observed in society. The political system of the long-distance view has been unvarying, and always considered as a purpose, to reach as many of the students as they are in a vulnerable situation. In this way, we favor the stability of politics and their tendency increases their protection. By this policy he has invested 211,5 million dollars from Euskka in the college scholarships at 2015-16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u128	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u129	Thank you, ma'am. It is true, Mr Bildarratz, that there has been a decrease in enrolment in the percentage you have said and that you have also announced the non-university scholarships which are increasing by 2.5 million. It is an amount that may seem important, but if you distribute it over the months, you see... among the number of people who ask you, which is very important, there are also tens of thousands of people, we have that in the non-university scholarships at 50 euros per month. And recently the Government has also adopted the guidelines for future budgets. These present a scenario of uncertainty. And the same guidelines say that the main socio-economic indicators can be updated and revised according to the macroeconomic scenario. However, the latest OECD data say that inflation at the end of the year is going to be 8.1%, right now it is 8.7%. And you have made an increase of 4% for non-university scholarships, which means a loss of purchasing power of 4%. I'm making a parallel. I know it's... But as far as scholarships are concerned, we cannot think of January as a starting point for registration, because the application for scholarships and the signature of... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... But in terms of scholarships we cannot think of January as a starting point for tuition, because the request for scholarships and the signing of the order have done so at this very moment, the request for scholarships is going to be made in a week. Only the increase in university scholarships at the price of inflation would mean in that increase of 2.5..., 2.5 million, which he has granted to non-university scholarships, which is the highest amount. We see that their calculations are staying far away from the real situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u130	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u131	Yellow angle, hitz egin disinflationate. While the annual average of the CPI in the state fell from two percent in 2017 to less than zero three in 2020, the department has increased the budget dedicated to university scholarships by 23.1% in the last seven years, from 27 million in the 2015-16 period, to 33 million in the 2021-22 period. Thus I may say that Euskadi is consistent with the following purpose: no one to leave them because they can't take upon themselves the economic expense of their studies. As I indicated earlier, this policy has resulted in Euskadi investing in university scholarships since 2015-2016 211.5 million euros. As for students benefited in college, in the year 2021-22 class, students 14406 received a scholarship, which, compared to the previous year, is almost five percent more. And since the course 2015-2016 we have helped almost 100,000 students, having benefited from some scholarship in the course 2021-22, 10% more of the student beneficiary in the course 2015-2016. As I have already pointed out, the equality and equity of all the European scholars are the foundation of the policy of our scholarships and prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u132	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interpolection, the members of the Ubeka Aranz and the members of the EH Collect are formed for the head of the Medical Department, to strengthen the attention of the public health, and to adapt it to new times." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u133	Good noon, everyone. Mrs. Chief. We've been discussing our first attention in this house for years, making proposals about our first attention, reflecting and worrying about our first attention... From 2018 we have studied especially in the condition of our first attention, and in the future. Even the opists have been mobilized, we've seen strikes in recent years, and we haven't done anything about our first attention in the past few years. But Wednesday's statements, Madam Counsellor, have marked one before and one after, not because things have changed from one day to another, no, but because it has made clear to the citizenry, without any look and disguise, what the future of primary care is going to be. And why these statements have raised such dust, because the citizens are already suffering from cuts in their own meats: of hours, the cuts in hours in their outpatient clinic, the lack of a doctor in their health center, closures of the CAP, increasing difficulty in accessing the consultations, each time they meet with different professionals, etc. And, therefore, what you said are living it, it is no stranger to them. And they are aware that it is not a matter of a summer, it is not a matter of a couple of months. The warning he gave was overwhelming. After these statements, he has tried to depart from those statements. He's tried everything, he's been through all the media. He was... he even needed to go out at Prime Time while with Fito. But you know what: no matter what you say, no matter what, your words have lost credibility. The only way to gain the credibility that people really believe you that you bet on the Primary, that people believe you bet on a quality, close, accessible public service will be the facts, the facts, only the facts. It will be when he starts planning, it will be when he starts to open the CAP, when instead of saying that there is a lack of professionals, he starts to change the policies so that there are professionals, when he starts listening and taking into account the professionals, when at the sectoral table he regains his negotiating character; that is, when he leaves behind the pride and they are more empathetic. It's enough to leave warnings to the citizen, to tell us that the most complex years in primary school are to come. Excuse me, but for years, decades, you've been in the government, no one else, you've been. And if we are so, it is not the result of chance, but because much of it is because of the policies they have implemented. It is time for you to consume your cares, and leave it to the professionals, to the people, and to the gangs of opposition. We must end by describing the nature of the situation. It must end by describing how badly the first attention is, or by saying that the next few years will still be worse. You have to stop taking video calls or online joker. The policy which has hitherto been established must be altered. The change of culture must be present. These policies ought to be given on change; in fine healths. The patient, the citizen, must be taken on the axis, and it must be a real purpose, not to adjust the patient to a specific management model, or to a certain model of management, that the patient must pay his patients for the privations which are due to a specific model of management. No, not that one. Look, the people can be understanding: They can understand it at a time, for a particular problem, if any service is to be closed or to be changed, they can understand it for a moment. But that's one thing, but another... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...something, if any service is to be closed or changed, they can understand it for a moment. But that's another thing, but it's another thing to treat people as silly, and, other things like −'s privilege, or the business of some people, to disband the public health system. For the question is, if in the decades there has been much less intermediate in Araban, Biscaia, and Gipuzia, less technology, the preservation of the cohesion of health services, the being professionals, we are not able to do that now? Are we not able to maintain cohesion in this region? Remember what the scientific evidence says: To be a reference doctor all his life long, or to have a team that has made his life in each person's hope of life. That's what scientific evidence says. But what happened in the past few years? What was the schedule? What was the pattern of contraction? What were the terms of work? What's the bet in the last few years? It's been years since we knew what would happen in Osapartian legalities, how many professional pensions would be. I remember in 2014, how many discussions we had with Mr. Darpon on this subject. We've been talking for years about temporaryness, how many discussions have we brought into this house since we've been with each other in regard to our temporary absence. There's been a lot of talk in the past few years, too much talk about changing the role management model for Osar. The COVID-19 pandemia has shown us that it is essential to change the model management model. He's shown us the way. For it is evident that times have changed, and as time has changed, the model of management must be adjusted, that politics must be changed. If we keep doing the same thing, it's over, it's over. Or is it intentionally to end the pattern which has hitherto been exercised, the pattern which first attention reflects? For if first attention be anything, the first attention is the soul, the heart, and the hands of the public health system. The public health system is first attention. Hereupon, as we read in the media, and as a first-mentioned professional, − and I am not mistaken, said by Michael the Savage, the first attention is not a physical space, not a consultation. First focus is a medical model, and we have to nail this here. First focus is a health model. And we want to support this medical model, and we want to keep doing it with the pretty ones, the exact measures. And we know there are no magic recipes, we know that. And we know things can't change from one day to the next. We also know that things are complex, and still more because we have seen the policies that have been made in the past ten years and where these policies have left us. But we also know that when there's will, things can be changed. We know that too. We know that there are many things that can be done, and there are many to do, if we want to bet on our first attention, which will be the object of the citizen, the citizen, the patient who will be placed in the centre, and not the reverse. It's about to level all the citizens, a close, close, close one that's going to be based on promotion and prevention, etc., etc., and so on. But what we've seen is what we want to ask you in these weeks, Mrs. apple, with the actions you're prepared for, actions, public health system, to show you that you're not going to be demanciated by your first attention. We want to know what you're going to do, what you're going to do to adapt your first attention to new times, to prepare them, and what has hitherto been our symbol to continue to be a symbol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u135	Mr. President of the Parliament, Congressmen, good days all of you. Chief physician, to you too, good morning. It's a shame that last Monday, the principal director of the Osata and deputy directors of the First Level were no use at all, Mrs. Rebeka Ubera. It's a shame, really. I think professionals, professionals, explained themselves there, knew what he was doing, and I think he was pretty clear about it. It is a pity, too, that last week on Monday, to talk about the future shootings of health aid in a forum, I did not know the contents of my speech for the summer courses of EHU, or not to remember. It is a pity you were invited to join them, there, among all the people who could share their proposals. If I carefully examine the occurrence of the first class of attentions and my observations, it may be inferred that the want of medical families which attend all the medical services of health are attended with consequences. But in spite of these consequences, the Medical Department makes a strong, strong bet, in favor of a first-class improvement. After several occurrences, public events, and interviews in Parliament, we seem to have discovered that in a great part of Europe there is a serious problem with the want of family medical health and the lack of professional professional community. Mrs Ubera, you forget some of the origins of the problem, although I am sure you know them. A problem that has two origins that you haven't mentioned. One, related to the planning that we can set in time, eight years ago, of the training of professionals. The other, with vocational change... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... that we can set in time, eight years ago, the training of professionals. The other, with vocational change. I read a news report from a state-wide media outlet in January 2014: "There is no place for so much doctor. The experts call on the Government to stop the proliferation of new medical faculties. The cuts in public health are increasingly attracting the collective to unemployment or emigration. In just eight years the centres in which you can study this career have gone from 28 to 41 With students of new income there is another: from 4,250 to more than 7,000. The conclusion of this salad of figures is that now, with public health services cutting in staff, and with Spain at the head of European countries that lose population because of the crisis, there are still medical students." 2014. I'm on it. The president of the College Medical Organization, Juan José Rodríguez Sendín, says: "It's pure mathematics. There's a thousand people we don't know what's going to happen because they're not going to be able to graduate. The increase in faculties is nonsense; there is no need. It has wanted to satisfy politicians from autonomous communities and mayors, and it has passed exactly as with the indiscriminate creation of hospitals that now we do not know how to pay." That's what it says. And what happened? That gang haven't been reviewed for years, or upgraded to the needs of a new generation. And now workers are missing in certain specialities, especially in primary attention. And that's how it is. The responsibility for this planning is not available in Osapart, not in the Medical Department. The other reason, last Thursday, was Bilbon from General Medical and Family Medical School. In the National Council. Even last week in the mint of the medical students of EHU/UPV, we could see the past of EHU's first degree of attention, the present and the summer course of the future. There's a vote crisis, especially the first thing in mindfulness. It has been focused for years, and has been given prestige to hospital specialities, and to those who are the hero of the patent-pointed therapy and technological setting which are being perverted among them. I referred to both issues last week at my conference: how medicine is changing and how it will change in the future, how we are already – and will continue to be – conditioned by the emergence of new technologies, the widespread use of telematic tools to link us over time, new personalized medicines and also the lack of family medicine and community health professionals, as well as other specialties in which there are also. This is the cultural change that we are facing in our relationship with the health service; it is the change that I referred to in my conference. And, as far as your detailed question is concerned, what will the Medical Department do to adapt the primary attention services to new times? What are we gonna do? No, I'm sorry. What we're doing because we're working. This is where it is obvious that − is our first attention. And I explained it. From the first class of attention strategy, from the strategy you know, not from another strategy. From the strategy you know, what are the activities we're extending. We're developing eucadinal attention, mindfully. Our goal is to work in a group of ambulance nurses and administrative employees, not to create unnecessary appointments, not to repeat visits and not to keep a larger supply of work for the whole team. One of the tools we're using is a web page. Why not give them an earlier appointment? At the time of the pandemia we started with success, but now it's improved, so it's giving a better direction to the best professional population according to their wants. To make an administrative order, to change personal data, ask for access to the health folder, or (Reflective reasons? ), these too, sickness, care of a wound, are consulted by doubt... In this example nurse will have a fundamental role, her own and no one else's. He'll have the nurselies' training and information, his own, the professionals, the nursemaids, the activity that they enter within the scope of their jurisdictions. We're talking about a nurse today. I'll give you two more examples of what we're doing and how we're doing. The new health plan of between 0 and 14 years of children is already in progress, and belongs to our first attention. They're making our primary care at the medical centres. We did not propose to ourselves any new plan in this discourse, or announce it to be destroyed. But that's not a new thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u137	Well, Mrs. Appledui, Mrs Martín and Mrs. Pérez did what you didn't do today on Monday's performance: they accepted the lack of the yearly planning. To-day you have again entrusted yourself with others: or the absence, the youth, or the attention of the nation... But you don't take care of it. And look, I'll tell you something else. We were supposed to go to EHU activities, but we had the committee and we couldn't go. But I've taken care of getting what I've said and I'll read it to you. "The reasons for the current situation of the primary care crisis are diverse, and the pandemic has done nothing but put some of them on the table, but it is necessary to point out some of the causes prior to it. In our organization, the culture of good governance, including planning, transparency, accountability, is very underdeveloped. It is managed without evaluation, and there is a great lack of research work. Managers have failed in the prevention of structural problems, announced by..."... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... sin evaluar, y exit un grand déficit de laboro investigador. Losgestors there fallados la prevención de problemas anuncidos por coctiveos professionals y sindicatos des haceos. What he said during the EHU activities. So, Mrs. Appledui, we're very conscious, we're very conscious of a health department as a member of the Osacence, and it's also 365 days and 24 hours open, it's not easy. It's not easy, it's complex. We're very conscious of that. But as in any part of it, a care of this human being may be better conducted, or it may be easier, when it is spoken of in a colaborative manner, when it is answered by others, rather than disdaining the proposals of others, when they are taken notice of when they are engaged in the business, when they are taken notice of by professionals, when the people are taken notice of by modesty. You said you're working, but, of course, if you don't accept the problems that are supposed to be root structured, then that job won't be efficient and that's not going to be effective for us to go back to our situation. We are conscious that the last year has been very complicated, just to see the progress of the last health departments: Darpón, Murga... It's been so complicated for years. There is an expression that is used too much in our house: "Special experience" did you? I think it's used too often. But as far as the first precaution is concerned and the Public Health System, we may say that we are in an historic moment. I don't know if the other moments are so historical, but this moment is clabura in regard to our first attention, because according to the nicest things they're going to be in these years, we'll have our first attention in the future or we won't have it. In the future, the Public Health System will be strong or we won't have it. And it's time to force all the measures to start all the policies. It's not time to continue with the refrain of the world's navel. It's time to put the cheap propaganda aside. Que por cyto telita, Mr Berado, as the Basque Television family doctor, when he's only a few minutes after he's been a sub-president and a high office for Osa. We don't need cheap propaganda. We need policy here, we need to get rid of the commercial policy and the petty divisionalism. There's no path here, there's no porches and there's no magic recipes here. And we need all hands, all heads and all hearts, because there's a lot to do. It's time to change the model of contract; it's time to establish stable contracts, and it's time for every patient to have the time necessary; it's time to offer attractive contract to new generations under suitable conditions of work, with future perspective, now for planning. At least we need to make a schedule between 2027. We have to make the health houses more social, not just with physiotheopeuts, educational societies, germats, pros of occult therapy. Because society changes. We have to put aside the culture of the departments, and we have to complete the teams. You have to go back to the culture of the micro equipment, with their power to decide. You have to end up with high grades and criteria of elites. Uninterruptive attentions need to be opened, they are important and need to be strengthened by the function. Nurses, assistant nurses, we need more stewards to finish up with endless bureaucratic jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u139	And so on, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u141	Mrs. Ubera, really amazing. If I tell you, they're propaganda, and if you say so, they're solutions. I told you I told you myself, and I told you I was working on it myself. You often get the whole out of a statement. And as for the EHU course, that's what you did. What you have said was an opinion among others, and I tell you to look at what I have said, and you have not even mentioned them. Maybe because you agree with what I said? You can't do that, not always accuse me of it, and then you can do it yourself. Eta gero, you really cannot attribute to Osakidetza the poor planning of the names of the universities, nor of the quotas of MIR that you have mentioned. If that is what I am telling you, it is not to be attributed to Osakidetza or to this Government. It is neither in the hands of Osakidetza nor this Government to solve a problem that has been generated - and I said so before - eight years ago and that will take years to resolve. And that in the meantime we are working to give solutions to the current attention. And that's what Osakidetza is doing: offering the best possible conditions to the professionals who finish their training. Nor is Osakidetza responsible for the vocational crisis she has not mentioned, for the contempt of primary care. We are contributing to that prestige of primary care with pride, moreover, because it is the one who accompanies us from before we were born until the end of our days. And that has to be put in value, but we all have to put in value. All of them not only highlight negativity, negativity... Let's do it. There is prestige of primary care. That mobility is linked to the improvement of service to the patient when it has to be given, because it is clear that there will be services such as proton therapy in Donostia, the (...) in Cruces, the new resonance equipment that we are installing. Why? Because every day we will need more diagnostic tests that will help us to improve the diagnostic capabilities, to make a more accurate diagnosis and a better prescription, therefore, in the necessary treatments. And that's a reality that you know and that's not primary care and that we're not talking about primary care... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...and that's a reality that you know, and that's not primary care, and that we're not talking about primary care in these cases. The extension to the ambulatory of echographs, pulseximeters, spirometers, dermatoscopes, integrated holter, integrated electrocardiographs, autoclaves and constant monitors will facilitate the work of primary professionals and avoid displacement to other centers to our patients. And they're also going to give our professionals greater diagnostic autonomy. And that's what you're doing in Osakidetza, and that's what you're doing in primary care. That's absorpting for primary care. There are other tools that are coming and that we are testing, of course, those that will facilitate increasing the diversity of forms of relationship between citizenship and health services. And we have pilot evidence on this that you already know. But no one is replaced. Let's talk about pilot experiences with video calls is with our professionals accompanying patients. And that replaces it? No, it does not replace, improve, improve, improve the quality of service that patients receive. And it improves the diagnostic capabilities of our professionals. I really want to tell you that, I invite you, I invite you tomorrow. You know what's going on tomorrow, don't you? The OPE. The first call of the OPE of Osakidetza, the first exams, 3,535 places that will be carried out through the various calls. And you know where we start? For primary care and for pediatrics. Why? Because we are clear on what is the priority and also what is the bet of this government. And for what? To provide greater consolidation, greater security for professionals. That's the evidence. And I repeat, the exams are tomorrow, they're not in a couple of years. It's tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u142	Thank you, Appledu, ma'am. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interadectation by Jon Hernández Hidedez, together with Podemos, a member of the Anician team, made to the head of the Medical Department, the demand for resignation by public medical unions." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u143	Good afternoon, chief physician. Public health unions - SATSE, ELA, LAB, Workers' Commissions, UGT and ESK - have called for a demonstration to denounce that the Basque Government wants to dismantle and precarious Osakidetza. It's not new, it won't catch you by surprise, because they've been denouncing and criticizing the Basque government's health policies for over a decade. But this has been decided on this occasion after evaluating the statements made last week by you, which have generated enormous discomfort, not only among health professionals, once again, but also throughout society. We think there's a deep discomfort, counselor. You accepted the position with a conciliatory message with the representatives of the professionals of our public health, aware of the discontent that their predecessors had left among those who take care of our health day by day. However, we have been in mid-legislature and the department has not been able to resolve the constant conflicts in our public health; a product of a political practice that is contrary to what they say they do when we call them from the left or from the social actors themselves. Discontent between the public health workforce and between society is on the rise. Osakidetza, who rightly assumed to be the most valued public service, is now in the polls leading the way. The second in the Deusto Barometer, the fifth in the Sociometer. In 2019 63% of Basques approved Osakidetza; now 50% shaved. But you don't seem to want to see reality. In my opinion, the Lehendakari has once again demonstrated this morning, despite the offer and hand extended by the spokesman of our parliamentary group. It seemed in his answer that everything was fine, that everything was in order. The criticisms of both are fantasies of the opposition and the representatives of the Osakidetza workers. And the responsibilities are shared: the opposition may not tie its shoulder; the unions too accustomed to protest; and the citizenship that has to make a cultural change, because it seems that they are the ones who fail and not the model developed by you in health. No, no, We don't need a cultural change. We need the Basque Government to change course, Madam Counsellor. That's our opinion. To plan, resolve and invest in public health in a clear and determined manner, and to forget the euphemism of public-private collaboration, which often hides a growing weight of private health and a weakening of public health. By the year 2027, about 1,000 professionals in primary care will retire. Within five years, about 500 doctors. Osakidetza has not been a predictor and cannot guarantee the generational relief of the professionals. And in the face of this, what you do is that Basques and Basques will have to travel to be cared for, or that nursing will have an increasingly important role to play in solving mild processes and thus compensate for the reduction of optionals. Instead of doing their job and looking for ways to invest more and better in primary care and health care, the Basque Government claims that the nursing community - which is essential in promoting the health and care of the patient - assumes a responsibility corresponding to the optional ones. The diagnosis and treatment of patients is and should remain the sole and exclusive competence of the medical community. The statements that precipitated this new wave of mobilizations against the policies of the Basque Government were made by you last June 8 in the course of a breakfast organized by the company Executive Forum Spain. Which, according to its own profile, is dedicated to the organization of events and days for companies, with the... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... organised by the company Executive Forum Spain. Which, according to its own profile, is dedicated to organizing events and days for companies, with the idea of promoting business among its attendees, and even helping to close them. That's what they say themselves, counselor. An act sponsored by the American pharmaceutical company PFIZER and the British pharmaceutical company GSK, two giant pharmaceutical industry companies with huge interests influencing the health policies of governments. An element that we think this Government often ignores when it constantly talks to us about public-private collaboration and networking. These statements have prompted the request for resignation by the Basque Public Health Unions, of all. Request for resignation, Counselor. They're thick words. And for this reason they have called for 26 June a demonstration in Bilbao in defense of public health. And at the same time, on June 22, you will hold concentrations and closures in health centers whose hours will be cut in summer another year, as you have already announced. We, at this point, can do nothing but support that request from the trade unions. But it is true that the problem is not you. We believe that the problem is not Gotzone Sagardui, a health adviser to the Basque Government. The problem, in our view, is the policies applied by the Basque Nationalist Party in the government over the last decade. Look, it is hard for us to believe them when they strive to deny the neoliberal and privatizing orientation in the health policies of this Government, when they rely on the design of policies in certain consultants - those that are logically paid with public money to guide them in the design of their policies. Professional services consultants for companies, business consultants. Public health and health policy cannot be managed as a company, and in our opinion that is happening; and that ends up producing economic management whose results we are seeing. You have worked hard these days to try perhaps to nuance your words, or to imply that you have misinterpreted it. I even believe that on some occasion there have been intentions, let us say fraudulent, in the interpretations of their statements. I don't think that's true. I believe that the statements were clear - we must contextualize them logically, but that they were clear - and that they coincide precisely with what the health care providers of this country have been denouncing for a decade: the progressive dismantling of public health, and, as a result, a strengthening of private health care. You stated that we are facing a cultural change of customs and customs in our relationship with health services. And among these changes he explained that it will have to be moved more often, there will be clinics that are attended by nursing services. Moving more often is not a cultural change, and, let me say, it is to annoy many people - especially the most vulnerable - in their lives. People need close health care, in health centres, in the neighborhood. Clinics that are attended by nursing services; that is no longer a medical clinic. The training and qualification of nursing staff, it was said, will make their nurses and nurses professionals, protagonists of many of the actions that traditionally derive from the optional, and that now fall within the scope of their competences. That's reducing health care. You have advocated for greater use of consultations and telematics, and they ensure that they are opportunities, that they are tools that do not replace anything, but improve the new attention that is intended to be given. We don't agree. What is happening is that they become measures that reduce the quality of public care and end up benefiting private health. It is normal for professionals, public health professionals to remobilize this month after their statements. But you, far from putting forward concrete commitments with the public health unions to reverse those policies that they denounce, ask them to detract from the mobilizations. That is the answer given to them, and that, in our view, it will entangle you, the Government, in defence of policies that are having those consequences that the unions denounce. That is why we ask you whether today, that is all the political response that this Government is going to give to public health professionals in the face of these important calls for mobilization.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u144	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u145	Mrs. President of the Parliament. The chief of the department. Good morning to all of you again. Mr Hernández, it is a constant in the speeches that we keep between you and me, in the face of questions, the requests for information that you always make, that you always give for certain all the versions and all the explanations, that, I do not know whether they pose the unions or that they transfer the media that the unions pose. As you have done on this occasion, giving some of the assessments of what I said or did not say in Executive Forums about the challenges (...) in the future in health care; that I also spoke not only of Euskadi, but I spoke in the whole of the Autonomous Communities and in the rest of Europe. And look really, I invite you to look at whether from there – but from my intervention, from my intervention – you can deduce whether I have spoken anything that might invite you to think about dismantling, precariousing, or privatizing. You said it, you have to contextualize. And by the way, those displacements, and I say again, those clear displacements that will take place in the most specialized one. In specialized primary care, closeness, and I have said it before, remains our model of care. Because you know what the primary care strategy is, and you know that we are developing it, and that we are implementing it. And there one of the pillars is precisely that, proximity. I explained it in the previous speech. It's also usually constant... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... carrying out, and there one of the pillars is, precisely, that, proximity. I explained it in the previous speech. It is also common to say that the trade union side's versions of the statement of precariousness, dismantling and privatization are always three constants: look, the difficulties that we have gone through and continue to go through during the covid, which, moreover, have mainly resided in the public health systems in our country, in Osakidetza, have facilitated a propitious moment for those who want to talk about the health setback, but reality contradicts that discourse permanently, and we must also put reality on the table. The result of the evaluation of health management itself during the first year of the fight against the covid carried out by Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea was positive. Here were the authors of the study. You were able to listen to them, ask them, and what they said, that the system was sustained because it was a strong system. Of course, they also said that shortcomings had been identified that had been resolved and that efforts would be made to strengthen some of our services, of course. You also know the evolution of the department's budget, right?, in the year 2022, EUR 4,352 million, 4% more than the previous year, when we came from a growth in the previous year of 6%. In terms of per capita health spending we are at 1,984 euros, above all other communities. Where the reduction is, where it is. I remind you that the concertation of services in private entities has them with or without profit, but does not imply, does not imply that citizens should pay more for that service. The attention is offered, which is offered, is financed entirely by public funds, and this represents only 6.2% of the budget of the Department of Health, which I recall, is 4,352 million. The Basque Government's Department of Health has for many years not been expanding this 6% percentage, but is reducing the number of contracts with private companies. In the course of 2019, before the pandemic, Osakidetza had hired 37,000 and 41,000 people, and in December 21, December 21, not so distant dates, in the middle of the Omicron pandemic, came to be 45,000. And, in addition, we are immersed in four processes of job consolidation: the OPE 2018-2019, with a total of 3,535 places, approved, published, and as I mentioned earlier, whose first exams specifically of Primary Care and Pediatrics begin tomorrow, but the two phases with all their categories are called. In addition, we will add the stabilization provided for in Law 20/2021, with a total of 3,723 places. Both, we are already talking about 7,258 in two years, in two years 7,258 places. And we will also add the 2020 and 2021 replenishment OPE. We are in this and we will continue with that attitude of seeking dialogue and in agreement with the social partners. I am going to stick now, moreover, to some of the things I said at the conference, and that I think it is also important to mention, as when I talked about the implementation of the most sophisticated technologies, because that is also improving the quality of care, the diagnostic capacity of the network as a whole, and also the ability to respond to the new needs that the health of citizens requires, as I talked about the incorporation of new very specific medicines paid for by the Basque Public Health. I talked about redefining the service portfolio and the role each resource should play in Osakidetza's network. I would ask you, please, when referring to Nursing, to do so with the respect that the update deserves, yes, yes, the development that has had nursing training, and the role within health systems: they do not replace anyone. Just as you have to think if previous trainings made other professionals – I will not mention any professional category – do some tasks or others, which nurses are now able to do, because this is about that, that each group contributes to the integral care of health, each from their competences. We have to recognize them, they have them, and we want them to develop. They develop them for what, to improve the outcome of comprehensive health care, is teamwork, that's what we're talking about. In addition, I talked about new infrastructure, and I am not going to repeat the list of investments in Primary Care, which there are. In what yes (?) there was urgency was to bind it to the hospital women saying that we are expanding the hospitals of Galdakao, of Cruces, of Basurto, of Donostia, of Zumárraga. We are in the transformation of the Hospital of Bidasoa and that of Arrasate and the construction in Toulouse. Can all of this be done if there are cuts? Can all of this be done if we have a policy of dismantling public health? I believe that these are facts, evidence, that, of course, it is not as they are telling it. I also talked about the challenges of primary care, the shortage of family and community health doctors, and the deployment of demand-driven care, of course. And I said that the absence of professionals who hire sometimes generates that we have to deal with workloads in a different way than we would like. But there we are also acting with technological tools, why not, that allow us to orient the population towards what they most need. All this will contribute that both patients and professionals can benefit from an improvement in primary care. That's what we're looking for, that's the goal. I mentioned it, but I mention it again, we have a new Child Health Plan. We are in the deployment of new professional groups, such as physiotherapy, which will not replace anyone either, but will complement teamwork. I talked about investment in such important research, also in primary care. I talked about the growth of places in the socio-health field... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... important also in primary care. I talked about the growth of places in the socio-health field, in which we also participate. Increase of squares again, as I say. I don't know where you see the privatization, the cuts. But I'm telling you more places to offer, more social health places, more professional places. And he says that in specialization and new tools lead us to relate them to... Otherwise... One more chance to relate them to the system. You have said, I have not said, that Osakidetza leads the problems, it is the head of the problems - forgive me. Osakidetza remains the best-rated health service in the entire State. That has to be said. And that's no coincidence either, Mr. Martinez. One like the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u147	Counselor, thank you for your answer. How is this parliamentarian not going to give credibility to the opinion, not of the trade unions, of the social actors who legitimately and formally represent the workers of Basque public health? That they all agree, very diverse, and that in many areas they discuss and fight each other, they all agree in their criticism of the Basque Government, the policies of the Basque Government in the field of health. Of course, you ask me... I have to choose between listening to public health professionals or believing you when you keep two versions totally confronted. Indeed, I believe them. But, in addition, our group does its work of follow-up, of analysis of the evolution of public health in this autonomous community. And that's where we contextualize his words at that conference. Because, indeed, they must be contextualized within a conference where they took place and within the framework of the policies being pursued by the Government, that is the complete contextualization that needs to be done. I have asked you whether the whole response of the Basque Government to these mobilizations will be to ask you to deconvocate it and re-enlist the course of action being taken by the health department, as if to list the course of action being taken by a health department of a government, of the Basque Government, of a public institution, to show for itself that the policies that are being taken are, as they are said, to strengthen public health and not to dismantle it. What should we see so that the version of the unions is not credible? Did he do anything to us in terms of health? That with a budget of a billion euros nothing was done? Of course it is compatible with the construction of hospitals, health centres, to implement strategies, of course it is compatible with a policy that is being developed that weakens public health and that in a direct and indirect way - that the indirect one is always forgotten in the answers - enhances private health in an autonomous community where the particular concertation in the field of private health continues to grow. You tell us about the evolution of budgets. He never tells us, because they can't, and so they recognized him last week in commission from Osakidetza, we can't know what percentage is invested in primary care, precisely because of that management model that you have put in place, which I described earlier as an economist. Look, I'm not just going to talk about unions. Because you guys always put it in my face. The Council of Doctors, the Council of Doctors of the Basque Country has issued a communiqué expressing your disagreement with the analysis and the reasons put forward by the Councillor, for you. In his view, the problem of lack of professionals does not lie in the clausus numbers. You always blame other agents for the problems of public health. And it seems, it seems, that our only problem is that lack of optionals. And it's not. And you know it. Half of the places offered for family medicine and pediatrics are not covered. They recognize him. Still, you continue to maintain that Osakidetza is attractive. At least it should be recognized that she is not being attractive. Between 2012 and 2016 Euskadi had places authorized to train 513 residents of family medicine, but only 389 places were offered. 124 less trained professionals than could have been trained. And now there's a shortage of professionals. Law 20/21, of which we have discussed a lot, on the stabilization of employment, allows us to take out more places than are being taken out, however much they continue to announce the same OPEs every day over and over again. Socio-health care, to which you have referred, is already privatized in this community. It's privatized. And it's a business business. Education is half-agreed. Only half of the girls and boys go to a public school. And now it looks like it's about healing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u148	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u149	Mr. Martinez, you're going to allow me to point out. Because, of course, I have not told you to stop giving credibility to anyone. Nothing further. What I did ask of you, I asked of you... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... It'll allow me to point it out. Because, of course, I have not told you to stop giving credibility to anyone. Nothing further. What I did ask of you, I asked of you, was that you listen to us. But listen to us on equal terms. Because when I tell you what primary care is, what is being done in primary care, that doesn't count. When I tell you what we are doing in investment, "No, because you have said it"; you tell me that there are hospital works, that there will be new services, that you are making investments, that you are investing in infrastructure in primary care to improve diagnostic capacity... Not all of that, all of that is a box of things we say or announce... No, I'm sorry. Is that primary care? Yeah. So, that's what I'm asking you, look at it. Because you have told me about privatization, 6.2% I have told you; and more and more less. Give me proof, tell me exactly what it's based on. Because I haven't seen them. If the call to mobilizations is always respectable, from any collective. That's why I didn't say at that conference, because I have to say, I have to say that's not the reason. There will be reasons, they will, yes. I don't argue about what a right is. But of course what we can't do is justify something that isn't, that doesn't have that foundation. You have said it, and I repeat it: it is important to contextualize, you have to do it. At the moment, there is a lack of professionals of certain specialties, it is a reality. And when you mention some numbers - which I invite you to review - some numbers of what we have offered or have not offered, I invite you to review. Because he said them – I could hear them and not understand them well – but I don't think they can't be completely right. You can't abstract from that reality. And get out of there that you don't also cover all the number of places that are offered, get out of there that Osakidetza is not attractive, is to decontextualize. Yes, of course, of course I tell you, because I invite you to see, to compare. Let him compare and let him see. Look here for every 100 residents, about 55 are from Euskadi. And yet, there's 80 left. Then there are people who are not from Euskadi, stay in Euskadi. And there are people who return to Euskadi after having gone to specialize in other areas in which they may have an interest. And then they will have or will not have need within the public health service, because that's what the offer we make of specialization fits. And he also knows that we carry every year, from this legislature at least, offering the total number of places in formation, both of primary care and of pediatrics, as well as of those specialties in which there may be a shortage or, in the coming years, there may be a need for relief. You can review it, we've been climbing them. And that cannot be changed year by year, because that does not correspond, that competition is neither in this government nor in Osakidetza. You know how it works, I won't remind you. He knows where it's done. We talked about 2014, about decisions taken and not reviewed over the years. They were taken within a context, the context has changed, but we continue with measures that come from then. And that part of the responsibility cannot be passed on to Osakidetza, and therefore, contextualize that Osakidetza is not attractive because not all the squares are covered. Because where are all the squares covered? Where are the most professional? Me, I really invite you to check them out. I, in any case, will follow. Not me, Osakidetza. We will continue, we will continue to look for all possible ways of dialogue with the social partners. Because of course we're interested, and of course we're interested. Why? Because our interest is to improve this system. That's good enough, I remember. The best valued and the whole state. But that we do not settle, that we want to keep moving forward. Of all of us, we'll do much better. By the way, also in the number of places that go in the stabilization, fruit precisely of conversations. We started from a number, it increased almost 1,000 more places. And I with my hand stretched out; I not, Osakidetza, with my hand stretched out to anyone who could, endorsed in the law, increase that number, prove that we could increase. The appeal was open and permanent. The proposal was precisely approved. He moved on, lucky for all of us. That's the way, it's no other. But let's contextualize everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question of the allegations made by the members of the Ciudadnanos to the chief physician of the Medical Department, of the expeditions of Laura Garrido Körr Euscal, the popular Group of the Céranos, on account of the absence of medical physicians in the first degree." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Commissioner for Health, you see that primary care is also a matter of great concern in this Parliament, because all groups have asked questions, questions on this issue. No doubt the announcement you made that citizens are going to have to move further, even to other locations. And all this, justified under a cultural change in the use of health resources that must be used for everything, because it has also been done by the lehendakari in his intervention this morning. This has caused concern in health professionals, because it is obviously not understood as a mere health reorganization, but as a cut-off. And not only in professionals, but also in users and patients. I ask you to assume your responsibility, because you, as head of the Department of Health, know that Osakidetza has exclusive competence in planning and organizing health resources. I therefore ask you specifically, apart from the nuances that you have wanted to make on a periplo by all the media, if you intend to give up that announcement, and take the measures that are really effective to alleviate the lack of professionals in Osakidetza, especially in primary care.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u152	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u153	Mrs. President of the legislature, Chief, members of the legislature. I believe that in the two previous speeches it has become clear the meaning of the reflection raised at the conference, Mrs Garrido. But I see it didn't work, because you came with your version, and you kept it. Too bad. The specialization and the new... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...conference, Mrs. Garrido. But I see it didn't work, because you came with your version and kept it. Too bad. The specialization and the new technological tools and the shortage of primary doctors lead us to reflect permanently on the method of... how to adapt to needs and offer the best service. That's a reality. And all this on the basis of an unequivocal premise, bet and commitment to public health and primary care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Well, look how careful I am that I have my speech written by hand. You also bring it typewritten, including the replica. I by hand, because I have been very attentive precisely to the answers that have been given, even to yours, but to that of the lehendakari himself. Look, the decision that has been made has, of course, generated unanimous discomfort, especially in the medical community. You will have the letter sent... the press release of the Euskadi Medical Union. This kind of thing is becoming very common among trade unions and collectives. And I think that you, being a doctor, will lead to reflection. Come on, he won't despise it, I imagine. And it clearly says that everything is part of a campaign of contempt for the public, that working conditions are bad, that medical staff are forced to work twice as much, that within five years, obviously, 500 doctors will retire, that there has been no forecast, lack of planning. This, obviously, is not only extendable to the medical collective, but to all the collectives working in Osakidetza, including nursing and midwives. Therefore, I believe that once again it becomes clear that you are not up to the circumstances. The lehendakari of the 2019 Primary Care Strategy has spoken to us here. But we have already criticized that strategy, which did not contain short-, medium- and long-term measures to solve this problem. And you clearly have not done what you should have done a long time ago. And, besides, in a generalised scenario of lack of doctors, you have to say so, you have to be competitive, you have to be attractive. I know you don't like this, but the euskera demand... I regret that you would laugh because I do not think it is a matter of laughing, and above all of respect for the professionals working in Osakidetza. Yes, the demand of the euskera becomes one stop and one more obstacle. Because in the end those professionals who could come to Euskadi because they don't come and those who don't know Euskera from here, obviously, if they have opportunities to go to other places, they go. I will simply conclude, counselor, by telling you that, unfortunately, and this in addition we suffer all Basques day by day, especially those who believe in public health, Osakidetza is no longer a reference, it is not the service that it was, it is not an example. And I believe that it is clear here that the governments and successive governments of Urkullu... And there's nothing more to see than the counselors who've been through. I mean, this isn't random. It's just that there's been a lot of advisors all these years. And it is clear that you are making Osakidetza, as I said, not a reference service for citizens and complaints are multiple. And all you have to do is go out on the street to see what's being said about Osakidetza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u156	Thank you. It's over. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u157	How sad, how sad to hear your intervention and contribute to what you are contributing, which is not to be prestige or the health service, of which you should be very proud, not even the professionals who work in it. That's what it seems from his words can be deduced. Look, I've already explained to you where the source of the lack of family and public health practitioners is. And he doesn't want to hear it either. In 2014. In 2014, of course I did. But... And I don't have to remind you, do I?, who ruled on those dates and for a few more years. And what did he do? Establish those policies and not review them. It has begun to reverse the situation. But you know how many years it takes, right?, to train medical professionals. About ten years. In addition, public investment for training. Investment by which Osakidetza, this government, always bets offering the maximum number of places available in all the specialties of which resources are required. All of them. And that effort is being made from the public budgets of this Government. For our part, look, we offer for specialized training, as I say, all possible places. That in the care of family and community medicine there are 109. And, besides, I repeat again, we try to attract all people who want to work on our network. And I'll go back to the data. We, of every 100 professionals we train in our network, about 55 are from here, the rest come from outside. And you know how many are left? 80. I'm saying it's for something, isn't it? I say it's for something. This is where it is concluded that Euskadi is neither attractive nor competitive. In addition, we offer contracts of different characteristics in duration, in schedules, we give geographical alternatives, we offer good economic conditions, we have improvements for destinations with difficult coverage, we draw each case almost individually. Where do you deduce that no effort is made and that it is not attractive? Really, I can only call some... I can only call it a misconception that my words at the conference could be concluded, and I quote textually, that we have announced a new strategy of improvised primary care. No, no, That the nursing staff will replace the medical staff. It's not like that. That we're going to close offices because we're not going to the primary care model nearby. It's not like that. That we're privatizing. That's not true. That we're going to model Ayuso. That's not true. We have our own model. That we're dismantling the system. None of this is true. The truth is that our commitment and strategy are aimed at constantly strengthening and improving... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ...model. That we're dismantling the system. None of this is true. The truth is that our commitment and strategy are aimed at constantly strengthening and improving the Basque public health service. And the euskera is not, is not, no obstacle to provide any of the squares in Osakidetza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u158	Thank you, ma'am. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Interpologies made by Jason Aguirre Gartanodia EH Collectors to the Chief of Policy and Cultural Society, see the ills inflicted by the General Public Law as a People." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I don't know if anyone saw the Intimad TV that just opened last week. I don't know. Did Mr. Chief see her? Mr. Chief, did you see that? Yeah. Well, I don't know if you like it or not. I'm not a critic, but I think he tells a universal story, I think he tells it from us. And it can't be denied that he has a very good bill, and he's very well made, and Bilbo's city and its surroundings are beautiful. I think it would be difficult to make a better announcement to show the world our people. This series, apart from its values, I believe, is a very paradigmatic series of observations. Even if it's offered on a platform, it's made by an independent euskal producer, Chincho Films. The main actor is a Basque, Izian Ituño, and one of the directors is a Basque with Coldo Alcommando. And Alcommandez himself, one time, had compared the Intimad series to the Intidad, too, to the projector, with a series of telegrams made by Chinchua Films, the mouths of sand. We have mentioned this series here; for every time it is opened here, it is an appeal to the Parliament. It was in 2020, and since then there has been no other series of adults in EIB. And I mention EIB, well, if the public television doesn't do it, because no one else will do it here. As the Alcommandes said, the mouths of sand-no money for the shooting, and they had to do everything a little-she said it was a kind of revolutum for four weeks to burn four parts. And, for instance, the cars on the telephone are three cars, their own cars, the baby is their son, the ship belongs to our friend, and, well, all that. That's working in EIB. And if you want to work on it, well, there's no other door to knock. So you have to work with EIB on purpose. On the other hand, Alcommandez said that the shooting of the Intimad series was quite different. The platform was financed enough, not a favor or a gift I don't know, but because I know what kind of finances it takes to make a series of this kind of quality. That's all. They shot him with the young Intimad and the mouth of sand on nothing. Talking of Alcommandes, it doesn't matter what language creation is made. He thinks that resistance increases nothing, removes nothing. And, in other words, Intimad himself would be the same without any difficulty or quality that could be done in any other language. To diminish language is not a problem, it's a problem, it's a financial problem because it's not just language, it's financially decreased. That's what Alcommandez said. This is the reality of independent euscal producers. That's why I said that this case is paradigmatic to explain the reality of our obvious things. And so it comes to work, and then, well, we worry that our young men do not consume eucalyptic sights. And how will they consume if they do not produce? If there's nothing to be done about it. The editor of the Basque Television, Unai Norther, has been told that a people who has no visible production has no relatation. And I think so too. The reign of the peoples at the present day is made out of sight and hearing. The visible ones have two great foundations. One, the fiction I have mentioned, the entertainment in general, and the other the information. And by their means the story of a people is created, through which values are transmitted, community nature, culture, language, all the way to see the world. Around us, in modern or advanced countries, public communications are visible, even in our own; it is private press. To subsist as a people, and to make this Parliament understand, for example, whether here or in any other advanced country, a proper field of communication is required, and here the visible are essential. Therefore the visible must be preserved, protected, and, above all, must be produced, the content must be produced. To regulate all this, of course, there must be laws. We have a right here, EAE, to produce a law of our own sight, but we do not use it as we do in Catalonia. We, the Basque People, even if we've tried to create this visible council, are not allowed here. You didn't want to, Mr. Zupiria. And, of course, we have no law of eucalyptus, which should be proposed from this council. We don't have anything. And consequently the only umbrella we have to protect the visible ones is the law of the state, the general law of visible communication which has just been accepted in May, and which soon passes through the Senate. That's right. The Spanish law is the only law we have to protect the visible euscals. And, of course, that's where the movies start. What will this new law bring us? What's he bringing us as a village? For this law will also regulate the vastness of our culture, especially because they are now to be heard of culture. And for the moment, to ourselves at least, a great terror is the universal law of vision that has just been accepted... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... especially because culture is audible. And for the moment, at least for ourselves, the general law of the newly received sight made us shudder, especially in two parts. But I shall confine myself to these two: and, on the other hand, the province of public media. And I really don't know which way to begin, because both of them are enough to scare each other in our life changing paradigma. But I'm going to start from the first straight torpedo, article 71. Thus, for instance EIB, the public communicative media will be able to privatize and leave the news to the outside corporations. It's called Gestion's Indirection. And, yes, some of them have finally achieved what they wanted for years. This is the law in hand, EITB, our public radio television, our public information and entertainment services in private hands, may be handed over to a private group of communications. The news from EIB has something to do with − at the end of it, but it doesn't even think what it would be like if they were in the hands of a group of communications like Mediaset or Vocenta, without any control. Shall we leave our relatto to them? Will they transmit our values, our language, our community nature? Is that what we're going to build our town with? Yeah, I'm sure. Well, I don't think so. I don't think so, but it'll be legal. And that's accepted, that's accepted in Madrid. The second bullop of this law is opposed to independent producers, 110. The article. PSOE, who thought it was only a purely technical correction in this article at the last moment, has upset everything. The mode of defining what the independent producer is is has changed, and consequently the projections which are connected with great communications and platforms will be considered independent at the expense of the actually independent producers. And to say little to the prejudice is to say less. This law will bring their death. Why? Because it is now for the two great groups of communications in the state, the Mediaset and the Atresmedia. Until now, it'll be for that 75% duopolis that the government sees them. If it's been, it'll be 100 percent from now on. And in this decisive moment, where are the financiers getting the funding from Essal Producator? What are you gonna do about it? Does the strategy have light on or on hearings? Mr. Zupiria, what do you think of the open door to EIB priorise? What do you think of the damage that this law will do to the independent eucucucators? Like, movies like El Hoyo or the Great, who's gonna fund them? Is that enough for your financial funding that you're working on? What are you gonna do to make fun of our stories, our producer, our audience? What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u161	Mrs. President, Congressman, chief physician. I don't know if I'm not... I may not have been listening, but I suspect we're on the same question as before. We put a hypothesis on the table, we assume that hypothesis to be true, and build a bone. So here we are, Mrs. Aguirre, that's... Maybe I got mixed up arguing. Maybe I'm out of line. Then I have only one way to answer it. Remember what we have done in this country and remember what commitment we have for the next few years. On which I will build my hypothesis. Half of this hypothesis is true, which has happened for 40 years. And the other one, it was an engagement. And I'll tell you about it. And I want to talk about the law first. We spoke here about the origin of the law. We were told why the Spanish Government and the Spanish parliament were to accept a new law to execute this new directive, which was held in Europe in 2018. And when we talked about this, I told you there'd be a plot of gambling to discuss this law, and that's what would be in the Parliament of Madrid. And I told you it would be a good thing to do with the groups represented in this Parliament, in Madrid, in order to improve things in that discussion. Whatever will be accepted if the change in −Segna is not a fundamental law that will set the basic rules for the whole state or not to please us. And upon this fundamental principle, as the Common-wealth of Guernica says in Article 19: "Euscadei is meant to develop this fundamental legislation and create and regulate euscal media." In this discussion we have always considered the circle of euscal rights and self-referred points and agreements in the discussion. And in this effort we have helped from the government −, but it has been the parlamentary teams of the Eunic Party and the Socialist Party. And I have to say, as the first assertion, that the text of the Minister of November was approved by the Council, and that the difference in proportion to those received in Congress three weeks ago is remarkable. And I'd say that this law that's about to accept... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... that the difference is apparent by comparing the accepted ones. And I dare say that the sphere of eucalyptics established by that law of accepting it is defended and protected by the visible. And I will prolong this explanation, because I think it's important, and I'll start with self-organization. First, All Commissions by the Internet, be of the society, be of the society, be of the society, be Publique, or Private; And seeing the rise of Internet emissions and the amount of difference between self-interest, we've arranged the changes. And with such changes as we have agreed, those services which the EIB or the Euskal services have been distributed by the Internet, will not be kept in the hands of the Basque organizations. From the other, − and the former, as far as the command of those who have been seen, should command the laws of the Ministerias to be seen in the community, and leave the control of all his emissions by the Internet under the authority of the government of the State. With the changes that have been made, the government of the community, the Eucommodion in our case, will not lose its jurisdiction. Secondly, and as far as EditiB is concerned, the law project wanted to establish a new model of government in public television stations in the community. For example, the bill of law said that EIB must have a mark of commission, and that this commission must necessarily have several instructions. With the changes done, the example of EIB or EITB will not change, and will be respected as it was recorded in our laws, because the origin of our radio television is another. We have also discovered the state of EIB in Navarre, that is to say, in Navarre, EITB will have the nature of public extension, as long as it is necessary to make a treaty with the institutions of Navarre. To guarantee this public character, it was very important when it was assigned to the spectrum, that there should be no legal doubt. And besides, the bill of law wanted to give them the character of the state's public service-at-arms? ) exclude both public and private operators. And this is the case of EIB in Navarro. With the changes which have been made the matter has been solved, and the emission of EIB will not be considered as a stately one, on account of the service EIB offers in Navarro. And lastly, this law, which we would have the variety of language, will have been supported only by variety of language, but the state has improved in some respects, even when it relates to the equivalence of many products, and to the duties which it imposes upon them, especially in the contents which they offer to the spectators below 12 years. And coming to the subject of the independent producers of euscal, the Jestric Party of the Euscals does not agree with the correction that was made in the law at the last moment, and it was written in the definition. And I can understand the anxiety he's caused in the sector, but I'd like to say that there's also in our hands as far as − has been before trying to find out and improve our own systems and instruments, as we've done so far, because our purpose and will are clear: eupscal foundors, eupscal producers, eiscal productions, and euscal productions, have a chance of making products and of selling attractive stories. Some data. From 2016 to 2021, we've been able to work on 305 different jobs for visual performances of the Cultural Department, and we've directed 15,8 million euros on this mission, as has been said from 2016. And with that there is an investment made by EITB from his budget and from his duties. And the number of this investment from 2008 is approximately 38 million euros, and it's 300 and figs of what's been done with that finance. And from 2008 to 2008, and I mention 2008 because then EIB and Eukadian producers are the first big deal between the Independence Associations, so many jobs have been created in this system... There are 6,000 jobs at this moment in this sector, and 1,500 of visualized companies, the activity that points to 40 percent of access between the cultural industry. And as to the public nature of EIB, EITB had the first opportunity of evading, and has not done so, I do not know why he will do it now. We have a law, ours, and we can execute this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u162	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u163	Thank you, Madam President. That I lied, that's a very thick word, and soberbia isn't a sign of intelligence, is it? And I have not seen, for a moment, that you have forsaken my arguments. Then, please, a little respect, as soon as you use such words. Lehenengo eta behin, 110. artikulua: "Takes the initiative, coordination and economic risk of the production of..."... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... 101. artikulua: "Takes the initiative, coordination and economic risk of the production of audiovisual programmes or content on its own initiative or on a charge, and in exchange for a benefit makes them available to a - said Zen hasseran - provider of the audiovisual communication service". Horrek zabaltzen ditu ateak duopoliorentzako izan dadin finatzazio guztia. Bestetik. Seigarren kaputulua: "The Autonomous Communities shall determine the model of management of the provision of the public audiovisual communication service, among the following: a, direct provision of the service through their own organs, media or entities; b, indirect provision of the service in accordance with the principles of publicity, transparency, competition" and agar. Mr. Zupiria, you know better than I do what this door opens. Yes, Mr. Zupiria? I'm with you. Oh, well, look at me, please. And we're talking about funding here, I'll tell you, EIB has announced itself in a way that for four years, I don't know, he's going to invest 25 million of the producers for the next four years. That's 50, too, if you say it'll be eight years, or 150, o seca, that's how it works. And you tell me what they spent in EIB. I'll tell you what's spent. They've been spending 6 million dollars here every year from 2008 to film, and from now on the same amount will be invested. It won't be for independent cinema, because that includes other productions. For instance, it's not independent cinema. Let's get out of here. It's an assignment of copyright EIB's. That's not it. And let's go, let's go. Let's go. But that's not independent production. On the other hand, there are fewer money to direct to independent eucaine oaths. You didn't give that number. And I'll compare you here. "Merk, besides EITB, the money that's making a movie in 2022 is 2.3000 euros." Catalonia, 18 million euros. You'll tell me it's Catalonia Catalonia, but Valence's 5.70,000. We are the ones in the Andalucia, the 400th Andalucidic. That's what it says to encourage our oath. On the other hand, in what is called the Fndo de Linguas Cooficiles, they give a very good picture. There are 10 million in total. What invest each community is, that's what the state sets. How much has Catalonia taken? Seven million out of 10 million. How much has Euskal Autonomy been taken here? $700,000, only 700,000. Yeah? That's the bet on the cinema that's made here. What's the joke? What's the joke? It's data. Maybe you're lying to them, too. I don't know, you tell me. The money that goes to the movies here is hard. There's nothing there, the marqueein isn't alone. In the beginning, you said that the language is a new policy. If we want a new language policy, if we want the eucalyptics to go forward, we need visual listening. What funding is there for that? What kind of resources? It doesn't matter here. .). Commitment. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What money is there for that? How many men must be corrected for that? There must be resources here, not only commitment, but there's money here for you to take an oath. The movie's expensive, you need money to do it. So, what are you gonna do to protect independent cinema independent producers? And today I was angry with you because you treated me without respect. But I'll eat that, you tell me, and I'll tell you again today that we're ready for each other, that we too want to fight for it. As I told you, we're too small towns to be on their side. So we're ready to work and do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u165	President andrea. I do not know if I have spoken lies; if I have used it, I apologise. I'm not conscious. But truth is true, it's true what's happened. What has not happened is not true, there will be a projection, it will be... No, no, that's probably what's going to happen, but it's not true. And some things he says of the new laws, or some things he says before and has not happened. And I don't know why it's going to happen now. That's not true. And we'll continue to make euscal productions as a village and feed them as we've done so far. It's not around us, there's not another place around us where 14 years, as has happened here, the local public television has made an agreement with the association of the independent producers of the local community four years ago. And I don't say so. These independent producers said that the day before Donostian, the day before, when the new pact appeared. That's not what I said. And we will continue to promote and feed these productions. And we will continue if we are able to attract attention and investment of great operators and platforms. And we'll continue to push them into eroscals and euscan works, and we'll continue to invest our resources, much or little. And that will continue to feed this ecosystem we've created for years. A system that will have the work of our creators. A system that will support movie festivals, a system that has a film, a system that has public scholarships and a system that has the prosecutors. A system with a screen of movie halls and a system of many talents and professionals. This town has created that for 40 years. That's true. Then I don't know what's going to happen, but it'll be in the hands of all of us who are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2022-06-17.u166	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two o'clock in the afternoon and ten.
