ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get on the agenda, I would ask Mrs Emília Santos to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 2026 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Consequences and Political Responsibilities of Military Stealing in Tanks for 90 days. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u3	We will then enter the first item on the agenda, which is currently under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on International Women's Day. It was agreed that, in the use of the word, it would follow the order of the parties, starting with the smallest, which is the NAP, and that the government would intervene at the end. The first point, then, is for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u4	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In responsible and fair states, the International Women's Day would have more and less serious consequences. Much has already been done by those who believe and work for an open and pluralist democracy based on the values of non-discrimination, access to education and other fundamental rights. But today, unfortunately, we are confronted, day after day, with the impunity of a system that is still far from these values and that is pleasing in relation to the abuse of power and violence. The most flagrant is the data of domestic violence, mirror how we view these principles in our country. In 2018, 28 women were murdered and this year's numbers are already very worrying. More and more overcrowded shelters cannot respond to thousands of requests for help. As if it were not enough, and for the worst reasons, the cases of unfairness of the aspirants are increasingly known to be untouchable in the Portuguese courts, with judgments based on medieval principles that blame the victims and excuse the aggressors. The perpetuation of a culture of subservience and submission to the established powers feeds a judicial system full of failures, which is appropriately exploited in favour of those who have the most power. We cannot continue to devalue violence by conveying to society a message of enormous impunity and lack of protection. The struggles for equality are directly related to the power of decision, choice and freedom that we leave to the next generations. This is the time to continue to deconstruct patterns based on the idea that women are the weakest link to any pre-defined social destiny. Don't! Even though these ideals may have been more comfortable for some, they have weakened us as humans and have weakened our ability to generate social evolution daily and to gain a quality of life based on the pillars of democracy. Today, we greet the women who continue to take this fight with all their might. We will seek to accompany your ambition for a country full of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the Greens on this International Women's Day is precisely for the many women who have fought and fought for more equality and non-discrimination and for all women who fight for their rights as a person and for their dignity. And we remember — so many times it has been mentioned in this plenary — the struggle of the workers of the ex-Triumph and the struggle of worker Cristina Tavares, of Corticeira Fernando Couto. These are the first words of the Greens because of the struggle for a better world and where women are full in society. Therefore, the promotion of policies for equality is the basis of a truly democratic society. In the 21st century, however, women are still discriminated against because they are women. At work, this reality is very visible when women in Portugal receive wages of about 16 % lower than men. The guarantee of equal pay for equal work must be ensured and, to this end, the State cannot issue any action in particular in the context of supervision and the requirement for compliance with the law. Also at work women are still discriminated against on the grounds of maternity. It is unacceptable that one of the assumptions put to a woman to get a job is not to think of having children in the short term to ensure the full availability of the company. in a country where birth rates are so low, this description that women are still target is absolutely unacceptable. In addition, it is absolutely indecent that cases, such as those that have already been heard, of women who are forced to prove, for example by proof of breast expression, that they are breastfeeding their children so that they may be given the legal time to reduce working hours. They are discriminatory requirements that affect the integrity of these women. Because they are also women who make the most of their time available for family follow-up, including children and older people, they become less desirable or satisfactory for many businesses. Women are indeed the greatest victims of unemployment, precariousness and poverty. The Greens point out that policies need to be developed to ensure more public child support structures as well as older people. It should be noted that the absence of these structures at comportable prices is also crucial for equality between women, because if there are families that can bring private day care centres and children at quite high prices, there is no doubt that the generality of the families who live in the income of their work cannot involve cost sizes. A fair wage policy, non-discrimination in access to employment and the guarantee of support structures for families are examples of important assumptions for the release of women for other recreational, cultural, sporting, political, associative activities, among which they are entitled and which gives them the status of citizens as a whole. This fight must be undertaken with determination. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens would like to go through what we have emphasized in our political action this day, and yesterday we did so in the Assembly of the Republic: the issue of domestic violence, which still affects many women so quietly in an absolutely brutal way. Yesterday, we made an intervention on this subject and let our priorities be expressed, but of course, it is a determined struggle, which must be of the whole society and of which the public authorities cannot resign by taking action and taking concrete action. We would of course not want to give any further emphasis to this matter. I conclude by welcoming all the women who are fighting for their rights, for equality, for a more just society and, consequently, for a more democratic society. For an equal and democratic society it is what we do here every day, with many women. [[Congratulations from the PCP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u7	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The International Women's Day is a day to celebrate the life of struggle every day. A day of struggle and homage to all women who do not cease to fight for a fairer country and a better life for them and for all. It is a day of homage: All those who, with working hours of the 19th century, are obliged in the 21st century to make days of 9, 10 and 12 hours of work in exchange for a wage of misery ; To all workers who resist repression, intimidation and harassment at the workplace — a strong support of the PCP to these workers, in particular the Cortician worker Cristina Tavares, who we wish to pay tribute this day to their historical resistance in defense of their job; [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] all those working on shifts, on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, on an absolute wild hours without due wage compensation and rest time due to this injury; to all those who see the time for monitoring their children and to those who are obliged to decide whether to keep the job or are accused of leaving their children; All those who cannot fail to fulfill inhuman working hours are forced to leave their children with relatives, brothers and neighbors without conditions of stability to accompany them and watch them grow. It is a day of homage: All those who fight against direct and indirect wage discrimination. All women who leave the house in the morning when everyone is still asleep ensure the cleaning of so many places of work, such as here in the Assembly of the Republic, where they are needed every day, but are subcontracted through companies that pay very low wages. All women throughout the country, and also here in this House, ensure bars and canteens, guarantee working conditions, but take very low wages for the value and importance of their work. All those who, when arriving at bus stop, train station or boat station, already carry unpaid domestic work hours and few sleep hours or all those who, without public transport, are almost forced to pay to go to work. It is a day of homage: To all the grandparents who were pensioners and salaries to help children and grandchildren. All those who are forced to leave work to accompany their children and elderly with special needs. To all immigrant women who, by surviving so many difficulties, can send money to their families in their countries. To all of them we say that rights have never been offered, they have always been conquered with the courage and resistance of generations and generations of women over the years. We all reaffirm our commitment not to give up one millimeter in the fight against women's rights, in the fight against domestic violence — a daily battle! — in the fight for equality in the family, in the world of work, in society, against all forms of violence and discrimination against women. Today, as always, we will continue to raise the flag of women and men who do not give up fighting for their dignity, because the emancipation of women is inseparable from the struggle for a more just and advanced society. So soon, with discussion and voting on labour legislation, we will be proposing the end of the deregulation of working hours, hourly banks, adaptability and concentrated schedules. Here we will be defending the increase of the minimum wage to 650 € still this year, and are mostly women who survive with the minimum wage. [[PCP applause.]] Here we will be defending the general increase in wages, 35 hours for all workers, the public and the private, particularly the public, because most workers are women — and on this matter the former Government, PSD / CDS, stole a right won in 1998 — the fight against precariousness and full respect for maternity and paternity rights. This is also what we talk about when we celebrate International Women's Day, which has its origin in the struggle for workers' rights, the struggle for 8 hours, the struggle for the right to vote and the fight for the principle of equal pay for equal work. This is the origin of International Women's Day and, therefore, we are here today to honor generations and generations of women who have always fought for a country and for a more just society. Today, we are also here to honor the long and courageous struggle of many generations of women who have given their own life and strength to build a more just country and to renew the commitment to realize in life the equality that exists in law. To that end, we know that we have women who, in this country, survive, resist and fight for a more just country and that tomorrow they will build, in Lisbon, a great demonstration, convened by the Democratic Movement of Women, in the fight for equality in life, which is undoubtedly the fight of our time. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u9	Mr Vania Dias da Silva spoke for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we call for another International Women's Day. About a century back on this struggle, there is still a lot to do. International Women's Day is a day of symbolic evocation, it is true, but increasingly relevant. It is an important milestone in the fight for human rights, especially for women's rights, whether of a political, economic, social, cultural or just personal nature, such as those relating to sexual and reproductive health, but they are all struggles that women have to continue. We highlight all the initiatives we have made over the years and the signs to increase women's representation in places of economic and political leadership, but which are still not fully built today, as well as the evolution of the realization of women's rights in the labour market. There is, yet, much to do and we must do more and better! We also point out on this date with a sense of great regret and solidarity for women victims of domestic violence, especially for the families of the 12 women and the child who, since the beginning of the year, have died victims of this unacceptable crime. Portugal is proud, of course, to have been the first country in the European Union to join the Istanbul Convention and also one of the first countries to transpose it into legal order. We, however, also celebrate the crime of persecution, the crime of forced marriage, empower the crime of female genital mutilation and strengthen the regime of punishment and combat domestic violence. But the facts show to the satisfaction that the fight against the iniquity of domestic violence remains an unfinished task. It is true that this is not just a question of women, but above all it is the women who affect and it is therefore important to note this matter as well today. I have just said that it was necessary to do more and better and that there is still a long way to go. We will not rest until equality of men and women is not a reality. Unfortunately, although it has been a century since the struggle of women for their rights, the truth is that this right has not yet been fully realized. Therefore, on this day, we reaffirm our commitment to the construction of a more just society, free of description and without complacency with the phenomena of domestic and gender violence. There we will be to make all instances which have not been able to fully respond to this phenomenon so that the woman can see her rights fully released. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u11	Mr Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today we celebrate International Women's Day, an unmistakable milestone in the history of women's emancipation, but also a day to win balance and to continue the fight for rights and equality that is still denied to us. Women's struggle for equality of rights and status in society is extensive, long, complex and did not run without resistance and without various setbacks, as is indeed the case with all the struggles for rights, freedoms and equality. It is indisputable today that much has progressed since the awareness of the difference in the status of women echoed the voices of indignation of the first feminists. The history of women and men is intrinsically interconnected and one does not exist without the other, but they are deeply different stories. Women had to fight, more than any other human being, for such basic rights as the right to vote, ownership, education, access to work, the right to abortion, sexual and reproductive health, the body, political representation, the public space. We must not overlook these achievements, because they are also the ones that give us strength and determination to continue the struggle. But despite these extraordinary advances, we continue, women, here and around the world, to suffer intolerable discrimination. Here and throughout the world, secular oppression of a patriarchal and capitalist system, which aims at subalterning and minimizing women because they are women, maintains and encourages gender stereotypes that condition educational and professional choices, maintains and promotes wage inequality and segregation in leadership and leadership positions, maintains and promotes unequal participation and political representation, unequal sharing in the exercise of parental and domestic responsibilities, feminization of precariousness, poverty and social exclusion. This oppression naturalizes the harassment and intimidation of women at work, in school, in the public space and in the family, trafficking of women, early marriages, crimes of honor, female genital mutilation, sexual exploitation, harassment and rape and insists on apologizing and normalizing domestic violence and the death of so many women in the hands of companions or former companions in the private space, in the shelter of the home. This is, as we all well have acknowledged, in recent times, one of the greatest scourges in our country. Domestic violence against women is an abject crime and a structural problem of our society. It's not circumstantial! And, therefore, he needs a little more than symbolic acts, he needs the courage to act with concrete and effective measures. The goal has to be to protect women and zero tolerance to aggressors! The Left Block has presented a number of initiatives in this area, many of which have been criticized and rejected. We are aware that the Government is now seeking to recover the proposal presented by the Bloc in this House half a dozen months ago in order to ensure that the crime of domestic violence and the process of regulating parental responsibilities takes place as one, in an articulated manner, because only thus can the victims, women and children be effectively protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u14	We continue to insist on respect for the punitive and preventive nature of the Criminal Code. The judicial culture of devaluation and excusability of violence against women must be overcome once and for all, and for this reason it is important to give these crimes, also in the Criminal Code, the importance they show in concrete life. We cannot continue to have a crime that is a public crime, that is a violent crime, a crime against people and that kills so many women, to be less severely punished than crimes against heritage. In Portugal we have 70 % of records in domestic violence cases; in France for example, they do not reach 50 %. We have 90% suspended penalties; in France there are 78% effective penalties. We cannot continue to have these filing rates and suspended penalties, not because the goal is to punish it for punishment, which also matters, but because that is why it protects the victims. We know that so many women, victims of femicides, have already complained and have already asked for help, we know of the rates of recurrence of this crime, we know of the persecutions and threats, of the continuation of violence even after the end of the relationship. We cannot simply leave the victims to their fate or immediately after the complaint, nor afterwards! The fight against these heinous crimes must be done on several fronts, but we must also have the courage to move from intentions and symbolic acts to concrete action. It is our responsibility to affirm, but also to combat gender inequality and violence against women, in all its dimensions, with awareness of diversity and plurality of identities. This is the only way we can move forward without leaving any women behind and only then can we make the maximum « not one» reality! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u15	You have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : March 8 is a symbolic date of great scope and significance that had as a pest the liberating courage of working women at the beginning of the 20th century. The world thus points to the importance of the fight for equality and women's rights, a struggle that is shaped in human rights and which is still far from being achieved. Gender equality and the International Women's Day concern not only women, nor should this day be cantoning, but also cohesion and fighting side by side, to eliminate structural inequality between men and women, rooted in our society, so harmful to the economy, demography, justice and social cohesion. The world continues to be very unequal and indeed violent in relation to women. Women are often among the most vulnerable groups in situations of armed conflict, migration, asylum, displacement of populations and in areas most severely affected by poverty and climate change. Millions of girls continue to be the target of forced marriages (12 million per year), genital mutilation(200 million) and exponentially increases the number of girls and women who are victims of sexual trafficking, who are coming to Europe in the current context of migration. Intolerance against women and the banalization of sexist hate speech manifest themselves in the public sphere, as well as under the anonymous repellent of the Internet and deserve all our repudiation. It should be recalled, as enshrined in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, that « the full development of a country, the well-being of the world and the cause of peace require the participation of women, on equal terms with men, in all fields». And we all know that women are often the face of resistance, the unconformed voice that fights for more justice and they are also the first to seek solutions and to have a vision for the future of their countries. Therefore we cannot waste their talent, their skills and their active participation in all fields, as the United Nations and the 2030 Agenda challenge us. Similarly, the European Covenant on Equality between Men and Women calls for urgent action to promote equal participation of women and men in the decision-making process at all levels and in all areas. We need a Europe that meets its values and that of equality is a structural and common value in the European Socialist Party. In Portugal, with the April Revolution and in recent decades, there has been a significant evolution in the area of equality between men and women, in particular in the expansion of rights and guarantees, in the participation and representativeness of women in the different fields and sectors of Portuguese society and in the life of the country. Today we have more women to participate in political life, here in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Government. But there is still a shortage of representation in local power, where only about 10 % of women are presidents of municipal chambers and of parish councils, a deficit that we have to invest in for a full democracy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the Government XXI and the Socialist Party, we have been fulfilling in the construction of a more equal society, increasing income, increasing the minimum wage and strengthening all the social benefits that women are the main beneficiaries. In the area of gender equality, this programme agenda is also ambitious and expresses itself in intense work with NGOs (non-governmental organizations), civil society and local authorities. We complied with restoring the respect and dignity of Portuguese women, repealing the laws that altered access to IVG (voluntary termination of pregnancy) and safeguarding sexual and reproductive health. We have met, and we are fulfilling, in the field of wage equality, by adopting a relevant law that promotes pay transparency, which aims to combat gender pay differences. We meet in the field of parity, introducing gender quotas in the bodies of the government of listed companies and in the public business sector, adopting a minimum level of gender representation in the electoral lists from 33 % to 40 % and ensuring balanced representation in management and public administration. of our part, this whole daily and permanent agenda for equality is an inclinal ethical and political imperative and leverages itself in the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination, in which the fight against gender-based violence that everyone calls and everyone needs is highlighted. Is there still a lot of road to walk? I'm sure you do! So we have to walk and be on this road, on the street, if necessary, to march and fight against inequalities, against devastating violence, which kills and is an attack on dignity and equality. Today, in several cities in the country, we will hear these voices of struggle and inconformity. Removing prejudices, changing gender representations and values that have perpetuated the existence of unequal relationships in the workplace, family, social and school are the main challenges and education will always be the key that opens the door to change. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop the attacks on women, which are attacks on all of us, as the United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres tells us, and we must overcome all persistent discrimination and break down the walls of silence. We have to do it now, because the time of equality never waits for us. The time of equality can no longer wait, and can't keep walking with one leg alone. We greet all the women in our country, all the women who suffer. The Socialist Party will make its defence, for more democracy, for a full democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u17	I now give the floor to Mrs Laura Magalhães of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To speak of International Women's Day necessarily goes by talking about its historical and social construction, contextualized in time and in place. If at the beginning of the 20th century the right to vote was a difficult achievement for women, the possibility of being elected to political positions was another important step in women's emancipation and gender equality. If, today, the representation of women is 33 % in the Assembly of the Republic and in local authorities, it is a remarkable achievement that this threshold has already risen to 40 % in the recently approved law. Still, it is necessary to jump forward in the high positions of the Public Administration, where the female representation is less than acceptable. If, in the 1960s, women fought for access to contraceptive methods, today we view family planning and access to contraception as an element.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u20	If women's access to certain professional careers, such as judicial or diplomatic careers, was limited until 1974, today this condition does not pass from a historical memory. If, at the beginning of the last century, the women doctored had little in Portugal today, 62% of the doctors were women and the rate of women licensed is higher than that of men. If time has managed to change history, there are challenges that remain. when we point out this International Women's Day, it is also hard to talk about violence against women and, in particular, domestic violence. Every year, approximately 80% of the people reporting domestic violence are women. this year, compared to the homologous period of last year, we have a worrying increase in the number of victims: we are in 10. the week and we've already counted 12 fatalities. This is a scourge! This is unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u22	But let us be sincere, the possible banalization and indifference to the number of women killed in cases of domestic violence is not only fighting tributes and tributes to the victims and their families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u23	Specific measures are needed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u24	contrary to what they want us to believe, symbolic acts, although important, are not enough. More action is needed and, above all, more prevention. [[PSD applause.]] It is with this concern that the PSD has just presented in this Parliament a relevant set of legislative initiatives to try to combat this type of crime. at the level of the labour market, over time, there has been an evolution of women's rights through the promotion of equal opportunities between women and men, whether in the choice of the profession, either in the improvement of working conditions, either in the protection of women's work during pregnancy and after childbirth, or even in the introduction of parental leave. But it is still curious that wage disparities between men and women still persist. Just as the difficulties inherent in reconciling family life with the professional persist. No one can be forced to choose between family and professional career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u26	You have to have, yes, conditions to be able to do both, if you wish. They must have freedom of choice, without extremism, moralism or paternalism. [[PSD applause.]] Gender equality is due to the acceptance and appreciation of the various roles that are played in society. And this is a question of human rights and social justice. It is not the genre that dictates the ability or competence of an individual. For this reason, it cannot be the gender either to define the functions and professional positions. Anyone, regardless of his or her gender, must be free to make personal, family and professional choices. But it is free to choose only if, under equal circumstances, it has the same equal opportunities, rights and responsibilities, without obstacles to economic, political and social participation. Let us be clear: adding rights to one does not mean subtracting rights to another. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u27	The way for gender equality has been long, but it must continue to be travelled together, with the involvement of women and men, in defense of a more equal society. The need for a change in attitudes in order to dignify women in the various fields of action, whether political, economic or social, is a certainty: this matter concerns not only women, but also the whole of society. Only with the involvement of all will we be able to remove barriers and create opportunities to be a more equal society in different roles, freer in thought, more agile in behavior and more plural in choices. Both genders can and should be powerful. We therefore create the conditions for this to happen. That's our mission. And this must be our ambition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u28	To close the debate, I have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are celebrating today the International Women's Day, a date which marks the struggle of women for equal rights and for the affirmation of a truly just and equal society. Since the first protests of working women by better living and working conditions at the beginning of the 20th century, a long path has been achieved and important achievements have been achieved, but the underlying reasons for this struggle remain. In the most various dimensions, women were able to get rid of many of the ties that held them to retrograde and stereotyped representations and affirm their full potential as women, as citizens and as professionals. There have been many advances, but unacceptable inequalities still persist. The weight of women in the world of people with higher education doubled: it was 30 % in 1970 and is now 62 %. And yet women earn less than 18 % than men. Social support tripled from 5 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ) in 1974 to 16 % of GDP in 2016. And yet, we know that being a single mother is one of the greatest predictors of the risk of poverty, with 28% of single parent aggregates living below the poverty line. The weight of women in the governments of Portugal rose by less than 2 % in 1976 to more than 34 % in 2015. And yet only 1 in every 10 women presides over municipal chambers. The proportion of men with parental leave rose from 0, 5 % in 2005 to more than 37 % in 2017. And yet, women between the ages of 25 and 44 perform an average of 5 hours and 28 minutes per day of work not paid, plus two hours than men. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than 100 years after the struggles that have motivated the creation of this day, the truth is that women continue not to see their rights properly recognized. They continue to have lower wages, continue to be underrepresented in leadership positions, continue to deal with most domestic tasks, continue to be discriminated against by the fact that they are mothers and continue to face intolerable levels of violence. to the decisive steps that have already been taken to combat discrimination we must join the action of all and each one to build a more just and equal society. It is in this sense that we have worked and that we will continue to work. This is what we did when we established the gender-balanced representation regime in the management staff and bodies of the Public Administration and political power, in the business sector of the State and in the listed companies and when we increased from 33 % to 40 % the representation threshold set out in the parity law. That is what we did when we launched a programme for the reconciliation between professional, family and personal life, when we implemented the law that enforces pay equality between women and men and when we adopted the legal regime to prevent and combat harassment at work. That is what we did when we eliminated the restrictions on access to voluntary termination of pregnancy imposed by the previous government, and when we approved so as to allow all women to have access to assisted drug procreation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what we will continue to do to put an end to domestic violence and violence against women, with every effort to defend, intransigently, the integrity and dignity of women. If there is anything that history teaches us and that this day shows us it is worth fighting. It was worth fighting when, more than 100 years ago, the struggle for women's right to vote began. It was worth fighting when, already in democratic Portugal, the woman gained the right to decide about her life, without the permission of her father or her husband. It was worth fighting when we passed the law of parity which introduced more diversity into the political system, as it was well seen in this session today. It was worth fighting when the voluntary interruption of pregnancy was approved, saving the lives of many thousands of women and saving serious clinical complications to thousands of others. We know that struggles are long, particularly those involving cultural changes. And we also know that even when the government assumes — as this government has assumed since its first day — the role of promoter of this change, the dynamics of these advances depend on the mobilization of society as a whole. It depends on everyone, in their family, professional or social circles, to question the stereotypes that we impose on ourselves or allow them to impose on us. It depends on all and all thinking at every moment what we are able to do, in the small steps as in the great gestures. It depends on all and all the mobilization around the ideal of equal rights and opportunities for all women. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on this International Women's Day, we cannot help but remember the many progress made towards having a more just and equal society. It's from the strength of the way we made us gain strength into the path we have to do. But equality will only be effective if we combine the will to change all of us, the will to change all women and all men to build a future where the principle of equality enshrined in the Constitution is definitely realized. The fight for equality goes far beyond this date, it is a daily struggle, a struggle for equality made of daily and continuous work, which we will only finish when no woman is denied the right to achieve her maximum potential, to fulfill all her dreams. Today, and every day, we will work together for a more prosperous world, which will only be more prosperous if it is fairer and more equal. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u30	We have thus reached the end of this current debate on International Women's Day. We turn to the second item on our agenda, which is part of the joint debate, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 186 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support the informal caregiver and regulates the rights and duties of the caregiver and the caretaker and drafts of Law Nos 1126 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the Statute of Informational Caregivers and sets out measures to support caregivers and caregivers ( amends the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons ), 1127 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements and disciplines the family care regime, 1132 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Status of the Informal Caregiver and 1135 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Creates the Statute of the Informal Caregiver, strengthening the measures to support caregivers and dependents. To open the debate, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Secretary of State for Social Security, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are presenting to the discussion a proposal for a government law establishing a set of measures to support the informal caregiver. With this bill, the Government implements one more of the measures set out in its Government Programme, recognizing the importance of informal caregivers in the national context. The Government also fulfilled its commitment to the State Budget for 2019 when it presented in the bill a specific article on informal caregivers, committing itself to the development of support measures aimed at informal caregivers and caring people in order to strengthen their social protection, to create the conditions to accompany, train and train the main informal caregiver and to prevent situations of risk of poverty and social exclusion. We define the concepts of informal caregivers and caretakers. It is important that these concepts are objective and not vague with a high degree of discretion, which would only make it difficult to implement a policy measure in the field with this scope. In the Government proposal, the caretaker is the one who needs permanent care because he or she is in a situation of dependence and who is a beneficiary of one of the following social benefits: supplement by second-dependence, benefit by third-person assistance or supplement by first-dependence, in this case by specific evaluation of temporary disability verification services, and we also define the concepts of primary informal caregiver and non-principal informal caregiver. The primary informal caregiver is the family member who accompanies the person who is permanently cared for and who lives with her in communion of housing, not taking any pay. The non-principal informal caregiver is the family member who accompanies and cares for the person who is cared for on a regular but non-permanent basis. We also highlight, among the various support measures addressed to informal caregivers provided for in the proposed law, the following: counselling, monitoring, training and training to informal caregivers for the development of skills in care to be provided to the carer, by health professionals within a specific intervention plan; follow-up by the competent social security services, taking into account the rights of informal caregivers and the carer; reference, within the framework of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, for the rest of the carer, as well as referral to services such as home support and social responses, also to allow the rest of the caregiver. But specific measures aimed at the main informal caregivers are also defined, such as the creation of a support allowance to be allocated by means of a resource condition or the promotion of measures that facilitate integration into the labour market, ending the care provided to the caregiver. For the non-principal informal caregiver it is envisaged to create measures that promote reconciliation between professional activity and the provision of care. The operationalization of this bill implies a great involvement and articulation, essentially between health and social security services and we have been working on this. We foresee that the recognition of the informal caregiver is carried out by social security services through demand, but that they can be signalled by health services or social action services of the authorities and we will implement pilot experiments for 12 months, as happened, with very positive results, in some of the main social protection measures that exist today, such as the minimum guaranteed income or the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. This is also the way to have early, on the ground, measures to support the informal caregiver, not referring its validity only to the next State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u32	Several Mrs have signed up. Members to ask questions to the Secretary of State. I'm starting to ask the ladies. Members of the Left Block would prefer that the questions be asked immediately after the presentation of the remaining legislative initiatives under discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u33	Mr. President, the Bureau will decide.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u34	If the Bureau decides, the requests for clarification will follow the presentation of all legislative initiatives under discussion. The presentation of the CDS-PP initiative is followed, for which Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's history is not what all parties have always defended during this legislature. For three years, we have held the CDS, and we have not all, in order for the Government to approve a statute for caregivers, an initiative that would have to be serious, weighted, in-depth in the work of raising reality, a proposal that would reconcile solidarity with a sense of responsibility and budgetary balance, through the growing reality of informal caregivers. For three years, we have hoped that the unanimity achieved in Parliament would help the Government to give life to its own Programme. The Government's proposal today, however, is a huge disappointment and, above all, it is not serious. It's not serious because he doesn't do anything he says to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u37	In practical terms, it only announces a future law which, as has been said here by the Secretary of State, says it will approve and develop all that it now announces. If it is to pass a law that refers to a future law, why does it not already promote that law? Three years later, and already after the resignation of the coordinator of the National Integrated Care Network, the exercise of the government, more than anecdotic, is truly shocking. The CDS has always argued that the ideal would be for the government to play a leading role in the challenge. We have always refused to contribute to easy illusions, which only instrumentalize the suffering of the most vulnerable. But in the face of incompetence, inability or simply omission of the government, the CDS could not rule out its responsibility. contrary to the government proposal, the proposal of the CDS comes from dialogue with associations and caregivers, families and institutions dealing with caring people. We formulate priorities hierarchys, we seek the necessary solidarity with the management of possible means, we commit ourselves to the solutions presented: in the labour field, the commitment to the caregiver of existing rights for the parents; in the field of health, psychosocial support and effective rest conditions; in the time of reform, voluntary insurance, tax benefits and financial support for those in situations of poverty; solutions differentiated according to the requirement and particularity of situations; where possible, the right to choose the caregiver and the caretaker. We also present an innovative measure: that of the family caregiver for families who wish to contract a set of obligations that guarantee the person to care the same or better follow-up than that that which would obtain in institutionalization or other type of social response. All of this always and only that the interest of the person is proven in this regard. If the State supports the institutionalization of children and adults, if the State even manages to support the reception of third families, because it does not support families, mothers, parents or children who give themselves to the care of those closest to them? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, nothing in the life of caregivers is easy, nothing in the way of protection of their rights could be easy. In our view, it is time not to delay, it is time to take concrete steps and move forward with the best solutions. If so, surely the CDS proposals will have a long way to go. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u38	To present the PSD bill, Mrs. Helga Correia has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the Government's bill together with the draft laws of the CDS, the PSD and the PAN, which defend the creation of the status of the informal caregiver. It should be noted that the Government's bill does not express or formalize the creation of the status of the informal caregiver, the proposal sets out measures to support the informal caregiver and regulates the rights and duties of the caregiver and the caretaker. With this government bill, experimental pilot projects will be developed for the 12-month period, and only after evaluated will this law be subject to specific regulation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the study carried out by the health working group, in collaboration with the Ministry of Labour's Strategy and Planning Office, confirms that informal caregivers are mostly women between 45 and 75 years of age, who often add their dreams to their lives. Today, International Women's Day, I leave here my tribute and recognition. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal faces a double ageing of the population, as a result of the increase in longevity and the reduction in the number of births. Longevity, in most cases, walks side by side with situations of physical weaknesses, dependencies and dementias that sometimes place us without notice to care for another person. It is worth noting that our country has an unmistakable reality of family support for dependents at home, a more humanized and inclusive alternative that avoids, in many cases, the institutionalization of the dependent person, a reality that lacks recognition by the legislator. In fact, today we live in an older country: about 35 000 elderly people live in isolation and there are also thousands of people who, although not old, need permanent support. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are available and we want to contribute to the debate. in this sense, and after hearing specialists, associations, social economy entities, caregivers and employers, we elaborated and presented the Bill No. 1132 / XIII / 4. a, which aims to recognize the status of informal caregiver. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD bill recovers a proposal submitted in the framework of the State budget, led by government parties, and introduces tax measures to support the caregiver which consist in the recognition of expenditure on contracts intended to support people in the home, and equates them, for the purposes of IRS, to charges with households. For the PSD, the training and training of the informal caregiver is essential as well as the implementation of psychosocial support measures in the area of health and social support and rest measures of the caregiver in the area of social security and work. The caregiver may, if he so understands, also benefit from the voluntary social insurance scheme. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD bill aims to create the status of the informal caregiver, contrary to the government bill. Our status defines who is the caregiver and the person in dependence and establishes the rights and duties of the caregiver. We understand that the right of the informal caregiver to rest should be disclosed and ensured by public services, in conjunction with local social or private economic entities. In the area of work, we argue that the amendments to the Labour Code should be discussed at the heart of social consultation, where specific rights can be promoted, particularly with regard to the rest of the caregiver and the need for urgent care. We are aware that there is a long way to go in these matters. This is a first step, which has to be safe, unequivocal, of recognition and support for informal caregivers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law submitted by the Government is nothing more than a set of intentions of support measures that will only work through a pilot project that will reach only a few. Clearly, there is here a problem of equity in the treatment given to the informal caregiver. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party is concerned about people and their well-being. We cannot ignore the informal caregiver as a caregiver who lives a complex process, who has to stop caring for and have time for himself. He lives according to the dependent person, often isolated from his friends and his own family. Informal caregivers are not professionals. They are, in general, relatives of the dependent person who voluntarily and kindly devote themselves and deliver to the care of the other without asking for anything in return. In most cases, they replace the State itself with a single objective: to ensure comfort, well-being and quality of life to the dependent person. For the Social Democratic Party this is a matter of greater relevance and sensitivity, it is a consensual matter that concerns all Portuguese and society in general, it is a matter that should call us all, without exception. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party is a responsible party. They don't count on us to create illusions, false expectations. We are, as we have always been in this area, available and committed to working on building effective consensus and legislative solutions, but we understand that expectations or fantasies that we know in advance should not be created. For the Social Democratic Party, people and people's interests are above all and any interest or political agenda. We are, and we reaffirm, available to improve the document and build an effective solution, taking people into account. I end by saying again that this is a matter of greater relevance and of enormous significance and sensitivity, aware that this is the first step of many others. It is a step that must be assured, unequivocally, of support for informal caregivers. They can count on us to be part of an effective solution. Informal caregivers deserve the legislator's recognition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u40	You have the floor to present the latest legislative initiative on this agenda item, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In Portugal there are about 800 000 people who provide informal care. On a voluntary, compassionate, supportive and unpaid basis, caregivers play an essential role in ensuring the quality of life of caring people, dealing daily with a diversity of efforts that leave them more exposed to situations of stress, exhaustion, isolation and poverty. The NAP joins this debate with a bill that, contrary to the government bill, aims to create the status of the informal caregiver. First, we consider it essential to increase the psychosocial support of caregivers and their training, as well as to strengthen the support structures of the caregiver, such as home support provided by multidisciplinary teams. Secondly, it is essential, at work level, to adopt measures that improve the reconciliation of their professional life with the provision of care, through the granting of various rights, such as the reduction of working hours and the possibility of working part-time or flexible hours, as well as the lack of work for care. We also propose to increase the holiday days of caregivers, also ensuring their right to rest, corresponding to four days per month of care provision. Finally, we propose the creation of a full-time caregiver support allowance, in cases of proven economic insufficiency, as well as the counting of the time of care delivery for pension allocation purposes. The State has failed in fulfilling its social role, forcing families to assume all responsibilities. We defend a humanized follow-up for caregivers and their families and we cannot continue to ignore their needs. It is therefore a social priority for the approval of a statute for the caregiver, recognizing the fundamental role that they play and compensating those who abdicate very much for, in an altruistic way, caring for others for love.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u42	As I had recently noted, after the intervention of the Secretary of State for Social Security, three Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen to ask you questions. How do you expect the Secretary of State to respond? Together or separately? [[Pause.]] The Secretary of State informed the Bureau that she wanted to answer together. You have the floor, first of all, to put your questions, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, today we had a second stage in putting forward proposals on the creation of the status of the informal caregiver. This is an extremely relevant matter and to which the PSD, as a responsible parliamentary group, associated itself. However, we feel on the part of the Government an account and a follow-up of a timetable with which we do not agree, we differ, but we will have all the capacity, commitment and labor force to seek to build, in the field of expertise, what has so far not been possible, because of a lack of truth in the process. There has been much illusion, but for informal caregivers there is no need for illusion, because for those who rise up during the night often, for those who do not have rest during the day, for those who have to care for those who love, there is no way to receive false illusions. They want answers. The government has come forward with a proposal which speaks of the rest of the caregiver, which already exists. But when he did not create or sustain the number of beds needed, at the level of the integrated continuous care network, how will there be a response to the caregiver? We lack the truth in this process, we lack the will on the part of the Government, which has the tools to give the answer that is necessary to these issues. Let us also say, Mr Secretaries of State, how will they resolve the issues that are raised here in many projects, already analyzed in the past and again on labour relations? Are they going to take these questions to the headquarters of social consultation? Are the social partners going to be involved? What work has been done? This work is not known and there was a commitment for this work to be done. What conclusions have you reached? Nothing! Nothing! This is a process that should involve all, but all, because it is from all Portuguese to all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u45	This is not a partisan process, this is a humanist process, it is a process of Portuguese and those who care for their merits respect and truth. We know that it can't be done overnight.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u46	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u47	I will finish, Mr. President. Selling this false illusion is lying to informal caregivers, but it is also not with pilot projects, which do not know what they are or what they promise. They're full of nothing! We need more, we really need commitment, rigour and everyone's commitment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u48	You have the floor to ask your questions, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u49	Mr President, for more than a year now, the Left Block has been discussing, in the specialty, a bill aimed at creating the status of informal caregivers and caregivers. It was about this bill that several hearings were also held and that Parliament has been discussing the subject. So a year ago, the government does what we think it should have done at the time, i.e. a year ago. But it is worth more late than ever and, despite this delay, we appreciate that there is a government proposal that responds to some of the main concerns and welcomes some of the Left Block proposals. But this proposal also has several shortcomings and I would like to ask the Government about some of these dimensions. The first question is about the work dimension. In practice, the Government's proposal, as well as that of the PSD, refers changes to labour legislation for the next legislation. Therefore, we understand that the status of the caregiver and the informal caregiver should make changes to the law of work. In fact, when we talk about the government's proposal, part-time or reconciliation between care provision and employment, we know that this is only possible with changes to labour law. There are currently two legislative procedures in Parliament, one within the framework of parenthood and the other within the broader scope of the Labour Code, which are changing labour legislation. We need this legislative process also to have this dimension, which changes, for example, monitoring licences, emergency licences, in particular, extending, for the situation of children with disabilities, licences for the follow-up of children, and we believe that the status should incorporate this dimension. The second question concerns the contribution career. There are many women — especially women — who are forced to leave their jobs to care for those who are dependent, given the lack of formal care responses. The Government proposes voluntary social insurance as a solution. All right! But the problem of people who are forced to leave their jobs is not only not formally to have access to voluntary social insurance, it is not to have income, because they no longer have a salary! Therefore, they cannot pay voluntary social insurance. The proposal we make to the Government and to the parties as a whole is that the social support provided by the Government has two dimensions: monetary support for daily expenses, but also the payment of voluntary social insurance to those who do not have income to do so, so that people can have a contributing career that does not condemn them to a pension of misery. It is true that informal caregivers do not make informal care their employment, but they do a job that has to be recognized by society. The third question is on the theme of pilot projects. The PSD's criticism of this is, in fact, strange, because the PSD sends back everything that has to do with social support for what the government can do later and therefore does not define what social support it wants. We understand that the legislation should define, as much as possible, social support, we believe that it is possible that there are pilot projects to help design, specifically, in the concrete of the measure, as in fact happened with other social benefits — the government has already referred to the example of the RSI (social income of insertion) — but we do not think that the pilot project figure can be used to delay or limit the scope of support measures to caregivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u50	Talk, just talk! At the end of the warrant you see yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u51	The fourth question relates to the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. What investment does the government intend to make on the continuing care network? What budget exists for strengthening this investment? How many places and how many beds will open for the rest of the caregivers? Is the government available so that the rest of the caregivers can also go through home support?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u52	Promises! Only promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u53	Finally, on the question of the status of caregivers, the government does not want to hear about this status, but the commitment of this Parliament and the various parties is to make an informal care provider status, is not support measures. So even if the government does not want to, that is the commitment of the Left Block and we believe that this is Parliament's commitment: a status of informal caregivers and caregivers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u54	Finally, you have the floor to put down your questions, Mr John Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government today discussed in plenary another set of initiatives aimed at informal caregivers. We can even say that finally the government and the other parliamentary groups, at great cost, have joined the informal caregivers, who fight for the recognition of the rights of the informal caregiver and the CFP. The problems of informal caregivers and caring people are not now, they are old and well known from all parliamentary and government groups. for our part, we have heard several times informal caregivers in public hearings, we also participate in many initiatives of such important struggle and fair claim. And the outcome of these hearings is well reflected in the proposal we are discussing, in the specialty. We bring again the main difficulties, problems and concerns that informal caregivers have conveyed to us. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, "to live one day at a time" is the strategy most often found by those who find themselves in a situation where the feeling of helplessness is the result of lack of support: there is no time for them, for family and friends; physical tiredness; difficulties in sleeping; restrictions on social life; commitment of family relationships; incompatibility with life; unemployment; economic shortages, among so many others that we could indicate. Therefore, it is so urgent and necessary a response to such a big problem and, for the PCP, this can only be found through the construction of a broad public response which, by supporting people in a dependency situation, simultaneously guarantees support for informal caregivers. in this sense, we cannot let it be clear that PSD and CDS, which have contributed so much so that the difficulties of those who care have been accentuated, come now, with a fallacious attitude, to disguise their responsibilities. [[PSD protests.]] It was precisely in the time of the PSD/CDS government that the greatest attack and destruction of public services and social functions of the State was witnessed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u56	Have shame! This is not the case!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u57	When public services and social functions of the State are attacked, as in the time of the previous government, the main affected are those who felt the weight of the impoverishment policy most because of the theft of wages and pensions and the cutting of social benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u59	Therefore, we affirm that progress needs to be made to address the problems of informal caregivers and caregivers in this particular case, strengthening public services and support. We therefore ask the Government whether you can ensure that the informal caregiver will receive the necessary support for the problems we have left here. Will the government move forward with the creation of new responses to respond fully to the problems? Or will you expect that, with the existing means, you can answer? Will the government implement, and when, the planned pilot projects of the State Budget for 2019? For the PCP, of course: we will only be able to respond to the problems of informal caregivers and the caretaker if there is more investment. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u60	To reply, you have the floor of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We clearly need to resolve this issue and I agree with the honourable Member that this goes beyond the parties, which is a humanitarian issue. That is why we made the proposal we made. What we propose, especially in the context of the caregiver's rest, is based on two large pillars. A pillar, to be done now, generally at national level, has to do with the training and literacy of the caretaker and caregiver. Let us not forget that we are not just working with the caregiver, we must always work with the day-to-day caregiver. And we are already working, Mrs Deputies, together with the caregivers' associations, with the people on the ground, with the people who are aware and who are, let us say, « with the hand in the mass». Therefore, we are already establishing forms, including training and development of accessible informal caregivers portals, where people can easily have access to information, receive training and training and even share good practices in the field of informal caregivers. As the caregiver’s rest in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care (RNCCI) has been said very well, it is already provided for in Decree-Law No 101/2006 of 6 June 2006, but what we have verified is that we have the ability to improve our response. As you know, we have about 5000 beds and, from 2016 to 2018, it was possible to place more than 5500 users to allow the caregiver to rest. What we have are methodologies that are not uniform in the country and what we want, at this time and in a national and universal form, is to create a share to rest the caregiver. That's what we can do now, we're not expecting anything else, we can do it now. Therefore, in training, literacy and rest of the caregiver, these are the measures that we can take now. But there are other measures that we have the notion that they are not enough; we need to work more, because this answer is not enough. In reply to Mr Moisés Ferreira, we also agree that we need to change and expand our response capacity. Therefore, pilot projects are needed. It is that if we want to increase our response at the rest of the caregiver, in particular by giving new social responses, or including the rest of the caregiver at home, we need to identify teams that are capable and identify strategies that are feasible and, above all, sustainable. We are not interested in creating park responses, unsustainable over time. And that is why pilot projects, Mrs. Member, are used to identify strategies that are evaluated and then extended to the whole country. What we don't want, Mrs. Member, is to create false expectations, is to create false answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] These pilot projects we want to start now. We are already working with the teams in order to identify answers, so that we can hardly advance to the ground, increase our ability to respond at the rest of the caregiver, as important as I said, for the caretaker and the caregiver. But there are more, and for that too it is necessary to identify pilot projects. It is necessary to identify a reference professional that helps us in terms of rapid access to health care, once again, on the day of the caregiver and the caretaker. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u63	Excuse me, Secretary of State? Recently, I gave the floor to the Government, and the answer to the questions about the intervention of the Secretary of State for Social Security should have been given by the Secretary of State for Social Security. However, the Secretary of State for Health rose and answered without the Bureau's knowledge. And now the Secretary of State also wants to talk without the government informing the Bureau about who she is going to talk about. This doesn't work like this. A little while ago, I didn't want to take the floor on the Secretary of State for obvious reasons and, therefore, I am not going to do the same right now. I shall therefore give the floor to the Secretary of State, but she asked the Government not to repeat this situation. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u64	Mr. President, our apologies. I conclude by alerting the Government to two aspects: first, when the Government brings this proposal here, it focuses mainly on the concern that there are measures on the ground, adopted as quickly as possible and in force, to have an impact on the lives of people in good time. Now, in the face of some of the projects currently under discussion, I wonder about the size and scope of the regulations referred to here, when we hope that there will be action on the ground in a timely manner. We must not forget the year we live in and the time we actually have to approve and regulate measures and take them on the streets — and that is a concern contained in the Government Programme. [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, I was asking the gentlemen. Members who would allow me to leave here a warning, which works for all, that it was in the genesis of our concern and that it would like it to be in the genesis of the concern of all of you. We have heard a lot about the status of informal caregivers throughout this process and also here today. Above all, we believe it is important not to forget the care in this process. It is important not to forget what the opinion of care is, who the care effectively wants for your caregiver and what the opinion that care has about this whole process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u65	We now turn to the speeches of the various parliamentary groups. To that end, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Informal caregivers are currently developing a very important job, an absolutely well-known job and a work that Greens recognise and greatly value. Normally, family, friend or neighbor to those in need of care, the informal caregiver performs 24 hours a day and 365 days a year, assuming himself as the main responsibility for organizing, assisting and providing care to those in a dependent situation. Dependency that does not result or may not occur solely from aging, because there are diseases and accidents that create dependence and that require the provision of daily and regular care, usually provided by informal caregivers. Dependency, however, causes impacts on people's lives, not only on a personal and social level but also on an economic point of view. And in this framework it is necessary to implement a public response that not only guarantees support for people in dependency but also, at the same time, serves as support for informal caregivers. Thus, concrete measures are required to respond to these difficulties and, from the outset, a strategy for developing the response of public services, particularly at the level of primary health care, at the hospital level and at the level of continuous integrated care. On the other hand, it is necessary to pay attention to informal caregivers and the surrounding family and social situations, because informal caregivers face many problems not only at the level of physical and psychological overload, which often lead to exhaustion and even depression, but also those related to health costs. in this matter, The Greens consider that the State cannot also de-responsibility of its social functions, especially when we are talking about matters such as health or social security, because informal caregivers, in addition to physical and psychological overload, still face the lack of public instruments and support that can minimize the impacts or consequences of the exercise of the function of informal caregivers. Therefore, what we find absolutely imperative is the creation of support, in terms of the provision of care, in particular at the level of training and counseling, at the level of home support, but also at the level of social support or benefits, in particular with regard to dependency allowance or support for third parties, among others. In other words, it is necessary to create the conditions for informal caregivers to have as close a life as possible in a normal day, who have time for their professional life, who have time for their personal and social life and, above all, that they do not have to give up their professional life in order to be able to provide assistance to those who need it. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Greens, in view of the legislative initiatives under discussion, of the Government and of other parties, will follow those initiatives which, in our view, will contribute to responding to these problems that are more than identified. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u67	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party was the only party that included in its electoral programme, to fulfil the four-year mandate, the adoption of measures to support informal caregivers. The Government's programme has reproduced this commitment and the proposed law presented by the Government, which we are discussing today, materializes and implements this same commitment. Of course, without any other argument, opposition parties now accuse the PS of inaction. Others will say that the pace of this legislative process has been slow. But the insufficient truth is that, in 45 years of democracy, we were the only party in the government that we advanced with the legitimate recognition that informal caregivers deserve. Other rulers passed, other parties had political representation in the Executive, and they did nothing. Therefore, those who now accuse us of inaction are the same as those whom we return the status that best rests on them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN present alternative proposals, as they have already done for some time, even though they knew that the government was working, as it had committed, on a proposal, we can understand. Now that the CDS-PP comes and also the PSD, after presenting the Government's bill, presents each of its proposals, which is difficult to understand. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the idea that remains, and which explains the presentation of proposals by the CDS and the PSD, is this: if the Government has a proposal, the PCP has a proposal, the Left Block has a proposal and even the PAN has a proposal, we will present something there so that we will not stay behind. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And the problem is right there, either in the form or in the substance. It is that, as we have always said, this matter, because it is the life of each of the caregivers, but especially because it is the life of each person who needs the care of the caregivers — which we have received, indeed, and we have heard, over the past 18 months — must be treated seriously and, above all, in a structured way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Government's proposal is the best one to ensure the structuring of policies and measures to support the caregiver. Only then, with the implementation of these measures through a pilot project, which will have to be territorially comprehensive, articulated with local power and now anchored in the experiences of the social network, can there be the success that we all certainly want. You don't have to invent the wheel, as you've already said. This was the model used in the creation and structuring of the national network of continuous care or, more recently, in the model of social inclusion benefit or active life support measures. They are precisely these pilot projects that do not delay, they advance, in the first phase, and allow us to take firm steps, take safe steps and, above all, transmit the confidence that caregivers and caring people do not have today in the state but that they need, in this logic that what we do now will not be to walk back tomorrow. In contrast to this structured logic of the government bill, the proposals of the PSD and the CDS arise. Question : Were the proposals that bring us into question even the subject of reflection? Tell us there, if you made the accounts, how much do these measures cost? How do you operate? Who's that?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u69	You must be kidding me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u70	Nothing is said about this, and the truth is, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is between the PSD proposal, which refers to the subsequent regulation of all matters of the status...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u71	And what does the government do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u72	... and that makes the PSD not compromise with a single concrete measure of support to the caregiver,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u73	Exactly! It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u74	... and, on the other hand, the indefinition of the CDS-PP on opting for the model of the informal caregiver or the model of family reception, I confess that we doubt ourselves, after all, the time of the government, who say it was a lot, will have been enough for the PSD and the CDS to find the solutions that the caregivers need. They, yes, are more of an illusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u75	It's not worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u76	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, everything in the right time. The government's time was sufficient, it was the right time to decide what caregivers claim, the allocation of a new social benefit, to think about the structure of support for the rest of the caregiver, to develop teams that will provide information and train caregivers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u77	You don't even create beds in the care network! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u78	All this time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, he does not sympathize with the speedy altruism of the proposals that are now being presented. That is why, without prejudice to the legitimate right of the Assembly of the Republic, the parliamentary groups, the ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have always said that this would be a government task, an executive task.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u79	We found it, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u80	In fact, the proposal for a government law is an excellent basis for, with rigour and, now, with the parties who have the will, succeed, in the specialty, a diploma that advances in the expectation that it is created and that it is legitimate, with these caregivers. We have always said, and we have been the only ones to register it in the electoral programme for the current term, that these men, women, the elderly and, often, children, caregivers and caring people need public recognition. They need, above all, not rules, not laws, not the Statute, but what we have always said, support measures are needed to keep them in a position to care for those in need. That is what is done today with the Government's bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u81	We continue with the intervention of the Left Block. Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is for informal caregivers and informal caregivers who were once again at the door of the Assembly of the Republic and who are in these galleries, but also for all hundreds of thousands of people, especially women, who do this unremunerated work, very little recognized and often invisible, but which is essential to the maintenance of our lives in common. The struggle that the caregivers have been fighting for more than two years for the visibility of this reality, for the recognition of the care they provide, is a fundamental struggle for democracy and the valorization of work. It is also about this today and it is also about the international feminist strike, which is done by combating inequality in employment, which is done by combating sexual division of work and by combating the invisibility and overload of women in reproductive work and not paying, in domestic work, in the care of children and the elderly. When, a year ago, the petition of caregivers and informal caregivers was discussed here, the Left Block was the only party that presented a bill to create the status of caregivers and caregivers. We always said we didn't want to be alone on this subject and this cause. Caregivers and caregivers certainly recognize the very important role that Marisa Matias and the President of the Republic have played in this area, as well as the role of the Left Block in this Parliament, to be drawn by the existence of a statute, but we need a political majority in the Assembly of the Republic and this political majority implies convergence, dialogue and joint work. Despite the delay and slow pace, we are now, as before, available for this dialogue and for this joint work. We don't all have, it's true, the same perspective. For the Left Block there is no status without moving into the law of work and without guaranteeing permits for children who care for parents, for mothers and parents who care for children with disabilities, for the partner or for the companion who deals with his wife or her husband, who is dependent, and even if employers resist it it is necessary that the Labour Code change to recognize informal caregivers. For the Left Block there is no status without recognizing the contribution career and therefore the way to voluntary social insurance. But there are those who have no income to pay for this voluntary social insurance and therefore we propose that social support include financial support, as well as protection and access to a contributing career for caregivers and caregivers who had to quit their jobs. For the Left Block there is no status without guaranteeing the right to rest of caregivers and caregivers, which implies investment in the continuing care network, but also implies home support. For the Left Block there is no status without strengthening the role of the State and this is no benefit or more transfers to the private, it is to ensure that public health and social security services have more scope and more budget to make a social reorganization of care that guarantees the sharing of such care between men and women and rejects "familyist" concepts that disresponsible the State to keep women trapped at home, due to the absence of public responses of formal care, of community responsibility. Caretakers and caregivers have been waiting for too long. For our part, for a year now, we want the law to recognize its status and to recognize its care. Let us not waste time and do our specialty work quickly. May it be now that we approve the statute! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u83	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular: Through you, I want to greet all Portuguese women on this special day. Some time ago, I went to a school in the Setúbal district, within the Youth Parliament. The theme was gender equality and, after presenting statistics on the percentage of women and men nurses, I asked the students: why is this difference? The response from a student was that it is because women are more caregivers, or, as I would say, there is a higher proportion of women caregivers. Of course, this inequality has in part to do with gender stereotypes, but this means that women suffer from double discrimination. In the labour market, for equal work they receive a lower wage and, in the informal sector, to take care of dependent people and to take care of their children, they have more work that is not paid. Thus, projects that give greater support to informal caregivers will have a clear positive impact on gender equality and social justice. We are rewarding those and those who dedicate themselves to people in a situation of dependence and lack of autonomy. There is, however, one aspect that should deserve our best attention. when we introduce a mercantile element, a subsidy, in a non mercantile relationship, we are marketing a human relationship that can be based on affection, love and generosity. This means that the support given must be sufficient and not excessive support which has a negative effect on these values, taking into account the diversity of family relations. in an increasingly aging society, with an increasing number of people in dependence and lack of autonomy, the projects under discussion today are important contributions to the future of informal caregivers and those in need of this care. [[Congrats from PS MP Maria Augusta Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u85	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin with a particular compliment to informal caregivers, who have so often been addressed to this House and who rely on it for the solution of their problems, as well as those who, at home, have also fought for a fair claim of their rights. In the debate of this set of initiatives addressed to the informal caregiver, we cannot let it be clear that, by the late presentation of these initiatives, we must admit that they result more from the struggle and justice of the claims that informal caregivers have developed than from the sensitivity and predisposition that these parties and the government have revealed to find answers to the problems of informal caregivers. The CFP, for its part, has long been monitoring and has intervened in the need to support informal caregivers because it recognizes that dependence causes a serious impact on the lives of people and the family, both on a personal and social level and on a financial level. in this sense, precisely one year ago, the PCP presented its draft law, an initiative that part of the premise that the State cannot deresponsibility, transferring to others its responsibility to respond to informal caregivers, i.e. the social functions of the state, especially in the specific case, of health and social security. It was also thanks to the action and initiative of the CFP that was included in the State Budget for 2019 a standard that determines the creation of a pilot project to establish a network of support to informal caregivers and other measures, thus allowing to advance in support to informal caregivers and caretakers. We understand that it is important to build a broad public response which, by supporting people in dependency, simultaneously guarantees support for informal caregivers. However, we cannot fail to denounce the manipulation that has been made of the important struggle of informal caregivers for the fair recognition of their rights. Some want to prolong the situation for the benefit of their party and political agenda, and thus to make the issue of caregivers, and others just get into the discussion because they have no other remedy, although their bottom option is the accelerated reduction of the deficit and not solve the difficulties why informal caregivers pass. We believe it is important to create conditions for the state, once and for all, to respond to this problem. The PCP reaffirms the need for the creation of the support network, as we propose that the way to go is not to take people out of the world of work, professionalizing the provision of informal care, but rather creating conditions for the informal caregiver to reconcile his/her professional, family, social, with the important task of caring, as well as we reaffirm that conditions must be created to allow rest and the right to care with quality. Here we will be able to take these proposals as far as possible in the process of specialization and work to create the answers so necessary and so anxiously desired by caregivers and cared for people. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u87	You now have the floor for the CDS-PP, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, or almost, what the CDS means, in the first place, without surprises, with humility, without paternalism, is that it is proud to be here, today, as many years ago, to give voice to those who have no voice, to give voice to the most vulnerable, to give voice to the men and women who care for this country. That, for us, is truly a pride. We were the first to present a recommendation to the Government in 2016, expecting the government to fulfill its promises and not allow it to drag this process, with a long hand full of nothing, with promises that it has never fulfilled, with falsehoods, with disrespect before the caregivers of this country. We can also, today, fail to greet and thank the example of heroism in the daily lives of the caregivers of the associations here present and others we know, which, day by day, I repeat, are true examples of heroicity that we want to continue and inspire us. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For us, CDS, these people, caretakers and caregivers, are not invisible, even though the government treats them as such. For us, they are not invisible! So we started, in 2016, as I said, by presenting a draft resolution that recommended to the Government what we thought he was truly capable of giving, that is, concrete responses to the population, but the government, I insist, did not. No, Madam Secretary of State, we regret but we are not at the beginning of this debate. In fact, there are four Budgets approved by those who did not negotiate, did not ensure that the caregiver's theme was an effective priority. [[CDS-PP applause.]] At the end of this debate, we regret the social insensitivity of the government and regret the subsequent failure to fulfill the promises that have been made. We meant that, indeed, it is not for us, nor to professionalize caregivers or a financial issue, as unfortunately many continue to insist, thinking that what caregivers want is money and only money. We would like to say that our proposals were very solid, very concrete, and range from the aspects of the contribution career to work situations, access to health care and access to psychosocial care and support. I insist: we have done so since 2016 on the expectation that, in good faith, the government and the parties that support it would fulfil, budget after budget, these promises. What we wanted to say, in conclusion, is that we hope that in the process of specialty we will indeed have the possibility to find solid, concrete, consensual proposals that go beyond promises. Ms. Secretary of State of Health, is it then available to approve the project of family care, a pilot project that the CDS presents here?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u89	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u90	I'm done, Mr. President. Let's see if there's only one more promise you make here today. We don't need scissors, we don't need crumbs. Caregivers and caring people need concrete people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u91	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u92	Yeah, the CDS won't give up. They are the caregivers who inspire us, they are their examples of heroicity that inspire us and we will not give up. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u93	To close the debate on this set of initiatives, the Government has the floor of the Secretary of State for Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I can not fail to mention the latest statements by the Member of the CDS on the social insensitivity of the Government or the subsequent non-compliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u95	That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u96	In fact, the rest of the caregiver has existed since 2006 in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, and I do not remember having had a wager from the Government CDS / PSD nor in the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care, nor in the rest of the caregiver, nor in the generalization of the caregiver's rest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from CDS-PP and PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] Nor do I remember having been concerned about the social benefits already existing and addressed to caretakers and informal caregivers, such as the first-dependency supplement, in which they even introduced a resource condition and in 2013 cut down some tens of thousands of supplements. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this has already happened and, in fact, I don't remember that in the PSD electoral program or CDS there has been any concern with the informal caregiver... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The government is doing and fulfilling what it has in its programme. But, looking at the PSD and CDS proposals, we will tell informal caregivers what is there: the law comes into force with the subsequent State Budget. Say what is the next budget of the subsequent state! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u97	It's the room!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u98	Even because this government does not have a practice or a tradition of amending budgets, as the PSD / CDS government did. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, see when your proposals for informal caregivers are on the ground and if that is your concern. Moreover, the PSD proposal does not even include pilot experiments in compliance with Article 117. the State Budget Act for 2019. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] By entering into the concrete question of pilot experiments and of what the Government is proposing, supported by many of the parliamentary groups with parliamentary seats, pilot experiments take effect on the day following its publication, in territories that we want to be different, with different specificities, from the inland coast, territories of greater or lesser size, territories that have more capacity on the part of public services or less capacity. It is through pilot experiences that we will be able to cover already several informal caregivers and also evaluate needs, adapting the creation of measures to support informal caregivers. We can give you the name'status', we can do everything, but we must indeed foresee these measures, we must strengthen what already exists and create what is a fundamental link between social security and health services, because informal caregivers need such support, financial support in the case of risk of poverty, but also permanent training by health services. It is in this sense that, with the pilot experiments, we will already introduce this matter and we will not wait for the next State budget to take action on the ground, as proposed by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u99	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u100	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u101	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u102	I suppose it's about the conduct of the work, which is what it's for.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u103	It is precisely for this purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u104	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u105	Mr President, I would ask the Bureau to inform the Secretary of State, who apparently does not know our proposals, saying that they have a rule that says they will only enter into force with the next Budget, and apparently ignores the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, ignores the 'legislation', that it is not possible to make proposals that involve expenditure and do not take this rule into account, on the ground that they are unconstitutional. [[PS Protests and PCP Deputy Rita Rat.]] The Secretary of State was supposed to know this but apparently ignored the Constitution. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and some PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u106	Mrs Deputy, as you suspected, the appeal had nothing to do with the conduct of the work, as it is obvious. With this explanation, the debate on this item on the agenda is closed. We move on to the next point, the third, which deals with the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 176 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Labour Procedure Code by adapting it to the Civil Procedure Code. To submit the proposal, you have the floor of the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative is primarily based on the need to adapt the Labour Procedure Code to the new Civil Procedure Code as a general law and common law. The adaptation took into account what again brought the 2013 Civil Process Code, obviously preserving the specificities of the Labour Process Code, which were maintained in a logic of special law. But this initiative, in adapting the Code of Labour Process to the Code of Civil Procedure, could not ignore the state of art in the field of labour law, namely the Labour Code and the amendments it suffered after 2009, nor could it forget the reform of the Law of the Judicial System Organization, operated in 2013. therefore, together with the interventions based on that first reason, are only identifiable in the proposed content associated with the two factors I mentioned before. We use this opportunity to introduce some improvements that are considered appropriate to give greater attention to some aspects of the labour process, leaving, however, changes that entail a comprehensive review of the institutes or specific procedures. What the Government is presenting is an extended adaptation of the Labour Process Code and not a reform of this legislative instrument. The mismatch between the Code of Labour Process and the Code of Civil Procedure, which, as it is known, serves as a matrix and subsidiary law, introduces into the daily judicial practice dysfunctions and distortions that it is necessary to correct. It is a clearly procedural matrix intervention that basically only makes objective options without undermining substantive rights and seeking the best form of realization in the process. We have chosen to maintain the system of the Labour Process Code, with improvements resulting from the amendments introduced. in a very quick review of the most relevant proposals, I would mention the following : the recognition of the duty of procedural management, by the judge, inspired by Article 6. that of the Civil Procedure Code but accepting various and more advanced solutions, which have already been brought together by the Labour Process Code; the amendment relating to the forms of process, in line with the Civil Procedure Code; the labour executive process, which is now in the form provided for in the Civil Procedure Code; and also, in the case of the executive process, the agreements concluded by the parties in the field of extrajudicial conciliation chaired by the Public Prosecutor have been incorporated into the list of executive titles in the working process. In essence, these are some of the amendments. The gentlemen. Members have in your power the diploma, they know it more specifically, and then, as it is obvious, they can put the questions they understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u108	No requests for clarification are made to the Minister, so we have taken action. The first intervention lies with Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : Today we discuss the proposed law of the Government amending the Labour Procedure Code, adapting it to the new Civil Procedure Code. This proposal for a government law appears at the end of the legislature and aims to amend, repeal and add more than 70 articles. We agree that we do not understand why this proposal appears only at the end of the legislature. Moreover, the Labour Process Code has, as we know, an instrumental nature in relation to what is labour law and this instrumental nature is not indifferent. It is procedural law that allows justice to be carried out in specific cases and therefore in the opinion of the CDS, the contribution not only of the social partners but also of the different judicial operators is essential, and we know that at this time it is still in public consultation in the Assembly of the Republic. With regard to the social partners, the opinion of the UGT ( General Workers'Union ) says : « The text now presented does not respect in some respects the letter or spirit of some of the measures agreed in the context of social consultation ». It was good for the government to clarify whether it was so or not. But there are also technical and legal repairs, both by the social partners and by the judicial operators. In particular, in relation to precautionary procedures, for example, there is a lack of a time limit for the expiry of the measure when it is dependent on the proposal for a joint action; there are also repairs on the claim for emerging claims of the contract of employment, its violation or termination, when it is challenged in relation to collective dismissal. The Government should clarify the options it has taken or is willing to amend, correct and improve this proposal. Make it clear: the CDS agrees with the adequacy of the Code of Labour Process to the new Code of Civil Procedure, but wants that this adequacy be done correctly, that it is well done and that it serves the best interests of justice in the field of work. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u110	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lamas now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The draft law submitted by the Government and which we are debating today provides for a set of amendments to the Labour Procedure Code. These amendments essentially aim at their adequacy, in view of the entry into force of the new Code of Civil Procedure, as well as the current Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System. This legislative initiative also aims to harmonize the Labour Process Code with substantive labour law, i.e. with the Labour Code, in its current drafting, and with the new law on occupational accidents and diseases. Mrs. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group naturally agrees with the introduction of amendments, with a view to adapting the procedural rules to the current legal reality. We know the importance of an appropriate procedural regime to respond in time and in a manner adjusted to labour conflicts, so changes that make the system more efficient, more efficient, more speedy, closer to people, enhancing advantages and correcting shortcomings will certainly have our agreement. We must not forget that we are talking about labour relations, a very sensitive area, where fundamental rights of workers, employers, all social partners are involved, with family and social reflections that we must protect and respect. Mrs. Members: In addition to this harmonization of the Labour Process Code with the current legal reality, the Government also intends to introduce some additional amendments. And, here, in what extravagants the already mentioned harmonisation, coming out of this context and revealing an innovative scope, it is important to evaluate and question its relevance. Simplification is important in order to achieve procedural efficiency, but it is also important not to neglect the parties' guarantees. When it comes to matters of greatest relevance, it is essential that the final text be treated with the seriousness and rigour that they deserve. Mrs. Members: This legislative initiative is still in public view and all contributions are important for a better analysis of the document in question. There are aspects that still lack discussion, which we will do in the field of expertise, where, of course, we will make our contribution constructively and responsibly. We are talking about procedural labour law, a fundamental instrument for the proper functioning of labour justice and which requires a serious and constructive analysis for which the PSD is, as it has always been, fully available. Labour justice is an area of particular importance as a fundamental factor in social peace and economic growth. That is what we want, a justice close to the citizens, accessible to all and in time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u112	It is now the turn of the Socialist Party. For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs. Members : I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a reform that has been launched by the government throughout this legislature, in fact, within the framework of what are two fundamental objectives which are contained in the Government's Programme for Justice. On the one hand, issues related to deep intervention in the organisation and management of the judicial system, in particular with an effort to train the judicial system in order to give more efficiency and speed to the functioning of our judicial system, and on the other hand a very determined intervention in relation to rationalization initiatives and to improve the legislative quality in Portugal. in this regard, I would like to highlight the functioning of the State JurisAPP Legal Skills Centre, which has had a very profound intervention from the point of view of rationalization of the national legislative system. I recall, for example, the recent Revoga + programme, which revoked around 2300 diplomas that were in force and had no practical use in what was the application of justice. I would also like to highlight the recent change to administrative procedural legislation, with very important reforms from the point of view of speeding up the administrative procedural system, as well as this initiative to amend the Labour Process Code, which imports into the labour procedural system a set of amendments which are very significant from the point of view of civil procedural law. I would like to highlight what the Minister of Justice has already mentioned: on the one hand, to prioritize the issues of the application of material justice to the detriment of formal justice, the question of cooperation between the various judicial agents and, on the other hand, also a fundamental principle, which is the principle of procedural management assigned to the judge, which also has a very significant importance in relation to the labour process. In fact, it was not understood that at present judicial officers had to follow certain rules and principles in civil procedural legislation and when the rules and principles were different to labour procedural legislation. Therefore, this initiative, which falls within the scope of the objectives I mentioned here, which this Government has pursued in a determined way, sometimes silent, but with already perceptible results in what is the effectiveness and efficiency of the national procedural system, is an initiative that deserves our agreement. We are naturally available to make some changes during the public consultation period that can improve the solutions outlined by the Government proposal. We have no doubt that this initiative is in the right direction and therefore we congratulate the Minister of Justice on this initiative which has contributed to the rationalization of the procedural system in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u114	The floor is now for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, Minister : I have already said here — and well — that the bill we are discussing today is essentially an adaptation of amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure to the Code of Labour Process. The Labour Process Code is the time to define the intervention of workers and their representative organizations, as well as the patronage, in the various judicial processes. That is why the discussion here on the adaptation of the Code of Civil Procedure to the Code of Labour Process cannot and should not be stopped from the more general discussion on matters relating to the Labour Code. We therefore want to say that, in fact, if there are aspects which are being put forward in this bill regarding the correction of formal aspects, as it has well pointed out here, what is also very obvious is that the Government decides to present this bill at the time it also decides to present a proposal for the amendment of the Labour Code which keeps the serious standards of the law untouchable. And we cannot fail to do this because, in fact, we can say that the formal adaptations we are discussing today would be other if, in fact, the Government had not maintained the serious standards of the Labour Code, particularly with regard to the rules on the expiry of collective bargaining, the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker, the effective fight against precariousness or, for example, the elimination of mechanisms that facilitate dismissal. Therefore, the truth is that what is being done here today is the adaptation of serious rules, which were adopted in 2009 and 2012, although from a formal point of view there are important aspects. And, therefore, what we find very clear, Minister, is that we are talking about an amendment which is a missed opportunity. It is a missed opportunity, because today we are in a position to repeal the serious standards of the Labour Code and thereby to value employment, to value the work and life of workers. The preamble to the bill states that the government aims at the stability of workers' lives. However, Mrs Minister, it is only possible to guarantee stability in the lives of workers, in particular by repealing the serious rules of the Code, by repealing the expiry of the collective contract. And we have a PS government that insists on finding support in the PSD and CDS on the right to maintain the standards of the Labour Code untouchable, since 2012, insisting on the expiry of collective bargaining, which has resulted only in one thing: in the degradation of working conditions and the rights of workers. Therefore, at the time we discussed this bill, we cannot fail to say that today there is a lost opportunity and that the Government preferred to find support in the PSD and CDS to strengthen the capacity to intervene in the defence of workers' rights, either under the Labour Process Code or under the Labour Code. The rights of workers are mandatory for the development of the country and we insist on the expiry of collective bargaining is to insist on the allocation to the patronate of the right to lapse rights, because yes and because the employer wants to continue to aggravate the exploitation. Therefore, what this government has done—and, of course, it realizes why, in fact, it is clear from the interventions here made by the PSD and the CDS—that it is to maintain the expiry of collective bargaining and not to restore the principle of most favourable treatment, which are a strategic objective to eliminate rights, to remove workers from collective bargaining and to say something...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u116	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u117	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, maintaining the expiry of collective bargaining and not restoring the most favourable treatment principle is a strategic objective to eliminate rights, to remove workers from collective bargaining and to say « the Labour Code is the maximum; from then on, what is capable of imposing a worker ». What we understand is exactly the opposite! The replacement of the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker is the opposite; the Labour Code is the minimum, from there on, is what the struggle of workers can impose. That is why this discussion is central and we will continue to fight for the expiry of collective bargaining and for the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle. Therefore, this is not a formal discussion, it is a political discussion, because workers' rights are essential to the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u118	Mr. José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : One of the most important problems in the world of work in Portugal is the inequalities and despotic relations that cross it and the difficulties and barriers that arise in access to justice. They obviously call into question the effectiveness of labour law. The distance between written law and law in practice that characterizes labor relations in Portugal results from an explosive combination of three realities. The first is that of the relationship of forces in the world of work. The relationship of forces and legislative changes hampered labour relations, disaggregated the forces organized in the world of work, decolitivizing labor relations, dynamited collective bargaining and, therefore, protected the most fragile part. The second reality is that the supervision we have, the inspection activity, is not able to prevent the violation of the law from being the daily life of so many companies and of so many workers' lives in Portugal every day, either in the bonds, either in the hours, or in the practices of harassment, in disrespect for holidays, or in all the standards that must guarantee stability and respect for workers' rights. But this relationship of forces and this transgression to the law are also added to contribute to this distance between what is written in the law and what is the practice of day by day, difficulties and barriers in access to justice. The fact that people often don't know how to resort to justice, they don't have the means to resort to justice, makes them discredit justice that is unfair or that is morbid. So responding to this is essential. The proposal submitted by the Government is an adaptation of the Labour Procedure Code to the amendments introduced in the Civil Procedure Code, in particular in 2013, as well as to the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System. This adequacy, particularly this formal adequacy, was important, especially since the Civil Procedure Code is of subsidiary application to the labour process. So, well, rules are laid down, gross failures are corrected, it was a necessary change and it sins late. We recognize that the proposed law of the Government has measures that are unquestionable, positive, with a systematic arrangement, an adequacy between the Labour Process Code and the Civil Procedure Code, with other measures which facilitate, for example, the obligation to record the hearings, which are good measures. We also understand that the proposal has questionable measures. For example, when it passes, from 20 days to 60 days, in the action of recognition of the contract of employment, the intervention of the Public Prosecutor, which results precisely from a law by which we fight here in Parliament, a law that can be a fundamental instrument of combating false green receipts, to false temporary work, to false volunteering, to the dissimulation of working relations. Let us ask: Is this the way? Should not the way be to give more means to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to facilitate proof, to keep workers protected from retaliation in the process, as were the acts that brought the worker into a conciliation which, of course, was always done under the employer's blackmail to keep that job or the provision of services? Oh, my God! But we also believe that the Government's bill has measures that seem even negative to us. For example: what is the advantage of giving a judge the possibility of discriminatingly deciding the joint hearing of witnesses, when we know that, in the field of work, the joint hearing of witnesses can be a counterproductive factor, a factor of inhibition? Oh, my God! What is the advantage of deciding the joint hearing of witnesses in the harassment proceedings? Can't we be giving mechanisms for retaliation or inhibition of witnesses themselves? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u120	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u121	I'm done now, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to say that, in addition to this, there are, of course, other issues that would be important in this process, such as the costs and exemption of costs, particularly for those affected by work, the extension of the concept of defence of collective interests by trade unions, the strengthening of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the issues related to occupational diseases and accidents at work. These are concerns that the Left Block will have in this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u122	Since the Government, being the proposer of this legislative initiative, has two minutes to close the debate, I wonder only if anyone who still has time to intervene in the debate intends or does not use it. [[Pause.]] As there are no further entries to speak, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the comments made here regarding this proposal which the Government has tabled. The timing of your presentation is associated with the need for legal hearings that have been held, and which they certainly know, not only at the center of social consultation, as was said here, but also with regard to the structures of the judiciary and the judicial officers. I want to mean that a good part of the original text of this initiative was made at the Judicial Studies Centre by judges. This is only to give an idea of linking this initiative to the field and practice. We lived here a disruption that made no sense between material labour law and procedural law. Basically, what the Government intends to do is to adapt to the civil procedure, as I have already mentioned, the rules of the working process, since the Labour Process Code is no more than the civil procedure applied. But the civil process obviously respects a set of principles that are specific to the work area, particularly the principle of treatment that is most favourable to the worker. And, in this perspective, I must say that the question of extending the deadline for action to recognize a right has to do with a proposal made by the Public Prosecutor's Office, considering the difficulties he had with the limited period of time that the law granted him. The gentlemen. Members have made a number of proposals here, and I would just like to say that the concern of this diploma was not to intervene in the material law. This diploma is in line with what we have from the point of view of the material structure of the labour law, the only thing it does is to adapt the Labour Process Code, and I am sure that, even with regard to the criticisms that have been made, I do not believe that this diploma prevents changes that are being produced in terms of labour law. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to the fact that, in the field of expertise, Mr. Members present the appropriate contributions, because of course they are all useful, as long as they enrich this proposal and maintain its original matrix. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with this intervention by the Minister of Justice, we have generally concluded our assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 176 / XIII / 4. the, so we will immediately turn to the general debate of the Proposal for Law No 175 / XIII / 4. a — Authorizes the Government to approve a legal regime for the exercise of armed private security activity on board ships flying Portuguese flag and crossing high-risk areas of piracy. In order to present the initiative, you have the floor of the Minister of the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I especially welcome the Members of the House and the other women present here in the plenary. Today is our day. I'd have taken everyone to be our day! ...we'd be much better! I am here today to put another issue to Parliament: piracy poses a serious threat to the safety of people and goods, loaded on ships, with a significant impact on maritime transport, of which 90 % depend on world trade. In addition to the responsibility that the Portuguese State has in ensuring the safety of the people and goods on board, it is important to bear in mind that the competitiveness of the national maritime sector depends on the attractiveness of national registers of vessels, which is naturally linked, among other aspects, to the mechanisms that shipowners have available, suitable for the protection of those goods. Based on the possibilities for the protection of people and goods on board, it is concluded that the use of private security is the most effective way to ensure defense against acts of piracy at sea. The security mechanisms, currently provided for in the private security law, are not fully suited to the dimension and contours of the threat, thus requiring a special armed private security regime on board. The regime we propose to create, as a result of the legislative authorization we submit to VV. For example, it provides that shipowners of national vessels may, in the course of high-risk areas of piracy, contract companies for the provision of security services on board using appropriate weapons and ammunition for the protection of ships and goods. There is also the possibility of contracting companies based in countries of the European Union or in the European Economic Area, or other States with which reciprocal agreements exist. The proposed scheme ensures strict control of the exercise of the safety activity on board, subject to the approval of plans against acts of piracy and security of the transport of arms, providing for monitoring and monitoring of the activity by the competent police, maritime and port authorities. This bill is the result of the interaction between different government areas, with the aim of filling a gap in national legal order, promoting the national maritime transport sector, without compromising public security. This legislative proposal adopts best international practices, implementing the recommendations of specialized international organizations and outside, such as the International Maritime Organization. With the approval of this proposal for legislative authorisation and its authorized decree, we will be taking another step towards achieving a national commitment to the development of the merchant marine sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u126	You now have the floor to Mrs Rubina Berardo from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: First of all, I begin by complimenting the Minister. Piracy in high-risk areas is a problem of enormous magnitude, both for the safety of crews and for the safety of trade. When a ship climbs the national flag, it also transports the legal security of that country to the world's seas. It is not a random choice and, if we want to strengthen the merchant navy and the rise of the national maritime sector, it is also mandatory to respond in legislative terms to the challenges that contemporary piracy brings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u129	To give a perspective of the reality of contemporary piracy I bring some examples of piracy only in the first three months of this year: in January, the ship of container MSC Mandy was attacked in the Gulf of Guinea at 55 nautical miles of Cotonou ; six crew members were kidnapped and later rescued. In February, an oil tanker from Eastern Pacific Shipping was captured by private militia with AK47 machine guns next to a refinery in Cameroon. In March, three Romanian crew members of a tanker were kidnapped about 20 miles from the port of Lomé in Togo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u130	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u131	It is recalled that only Portugal and Lithuania are currently in a state of legislative limbo, i.e., without proper regulation of private security armed on board ships. Whether it is for the safety of crews or for the competitiveness of ship registers themselves, it is essential to legislate. In this context, the enormous dynamism of the international register of ships in Madeira is highlighted. It can be the third largest in Europe and can place the flag of Portugal in the top 20 of the countries around the world. In how many world rankings can Portugal obtain a similar fact? Oh, my God! The PSD, throughout this legislation, through requests, through questions, through interventions through the debates of the State budget, has insisted on the need of the joint government, between all relevant ministries and economic actors, a legal framework favourable to this matter, and it is in this sense that we welcome the government's bringing this legislative initiative to Parliament. However, it is not possible to build a legal framework on this subject without taking into account what is happening in the other Member States, particularly in those who compete directly with Portugal in the maritime sector. Let us be clear: the entry into force of a law which in operational terms is impermissible, slow or unrealistic, may dictate the cancellation of the registration of ships in Portugal, which will go to other flags with more agile legislation and in accordance with the international maritime sector. The development and growth of the Portuguese merchant navy requires that this law be introduced taking into account the best international practices, avoiding duplication of formalism. The PSD is thus available to enhance the legislative initiative in the field of expertise in order to optimize its effects and eliminate the real negative consequences if the law were to be adopted as it is. We need a comprehensive law, which, by safeguarding the necessary safety parameters at the same time, brings Portugal in line with the requirements of the international maritime sector. In other words, to be a law with a global dimension, you need to lose your provincial aspects, be the mandatory nationality of security, frankly discriminatory...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u132	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u133	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, in order to be a comprehensive law, you need to lose your provincial appearances, whether the nationality of security is mandatory, frankly discriminatory, either the excessive time limits for the approval of security plans, or the requirement of headquarters in the European Union rather than recognition of suitability. It is for this joint work that the PSD is available, to improve the law in the field of expertise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u134	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u135	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We all bear in mind that in certain parts of the globe piracy is a phenomenon with a great impact on the safety of people and goods, aboard ships, and at very significant costs for the global economy. As the sea is a strategic sector for Portugal it is the responsibility of the State to provide the national maritime sector with the best conditions of competitiveness. In addition, this is one of the priorities of the XXI Constitutional Government, which is pursued, in particular through the attractiveness of national vessels, which can be coupled with mechanisms suitable for the protection of those same ships. The legislative authorization here under discussion is closing an existing gap in our legal order and will allow the Government to create a regime that allows the shipowners of national ships to hire private security companies for the provision of security services on board when they cross high risk areas of piracy. the State may authorise the existence of private security on board the ship internally. In fact, this is the understanding of international organizations, which I stress the International Maritime Organization, a specialized agency of the UN. Today, there are several States that allow it, and among them I quote Spain, but also, in particular, the Netherlands, which is one of our main competitors in this area, as well as another set of European countries and also the United States and others. This legislative authorisation, as configured, aims to ensure the mechanisms necessary for public safety by establishing a legal framework ensuring the effective protection of vessels, in conjunction with an adequate guarantee of public safety and respect for national law, Community law and international law. In the diploma, solutions recommended by good international practices on private safety activity on board ships flying flag, including solutions and rules originating in the International Maritime Organization, IMO / IMO are present. This legislation thus opens up a possibility for shipowners of vessels flying the Portuguese flag to hire safety undertakings on board, when crossing high-risk areas, in the molds necessary to ensure the effective protection capacity of ships. We also want to point out that this should always be an activity to be carried out with the appropriate guarantee of public safety and with the necessary monitoring and monitoring of the activity by the competent police, maritime and port authorities. I end with two notes, the first of which is to reiterate the importance and urgency of this initiative. The second note is to make it clear here that the Socialist Party is available to carry out a serious and speedy work in order to improve some of the solutions proposed, thus contributing to the improvement of the competitiveness of the national economy and, in particular, the sea sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u136	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u137	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I will make a few references about this diploma to express a certain reservation and concern, but to recognize the existence of a problem. The reservation and concern have to do with the fact that it is proposed in this diploma that private security be given the possibility of using firearms which, in our view, are unacceptable to the normal private security regime. Private security must, of course, be exercised in a manner different from that which is public security, i.e. without powers of authority. And so it is with great reservations that we verify the possibility of private security being able to use weapons, and what is proposed is that they can use weapons that are, in particular, specific to the Armed Forces. But we recognize that there is a problem: on board ships, on the high seas, especially in areas that are very exposed to piracy activities, it is not possible to intervene in appropriate terms by the public force. Obviously we can't have a warship corvet escorting every merchant ship. This problem raises a reflection on the possibility of the use, in a completely exceptional and atypical way, of coercive means of private security on board ships. In any case, to be adopted, it should be with the greatest cautions, through strict control of the aboard armaments, the qualifications and the suitability of the professionals involved in this type of activity. On the other hand, although it is recognized that similar legislation is being adopted in many countries, there is something we cannot ignore. Although we legislate for ships with Portuguese flag, it is evidence that, at the level of the merchant navy, there is a very widespread phenomenon, which are the so-called « flags of convenience ». This means that we will perhaps be legislating in the sense of a legal faculty to shipowners who, although they may have Portuguese flag, are not Portuguese, as well as their crew. Therefore, the phenomenon of 'the flag of convenience' is not entirely foreign to the possibility of using the Portuguese flag by vessels from other sources. I would therefore say that there is some discomfort with the adoption of this legislation, with the absolutely exceptional means which are assigned to private security, but in any case we recognize that there is a problem that deserves reflection and lacks any resolution even in the legislative field. We therefore hope that the possibility of this diploma will be reduced to the committee for a speciality assessment so that this debate can be deepened and reasonable solutions can be found. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u138	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u139	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: It is a fact that the CDS, such as the PSD, at various budgets and at various times, requested that this problem of the existence of armed guards on board be solved, as we requested at the date of the tonnagetax. Why? Because we understood it was a matter that gave Portuguese shipowners instruments and weapons to overcome an increasingly competitive climate and to overcome the obvious risks either in the Gulf of Guinea, in the Indian or Pacific which have grown. Only in 2018 there were 202 episodes of piracy. Therefore, it is a reality that impacts, and much, on the ability to respond. We also do not ignore the fact that the International Register of Madeira Ships has a competitiveness weapon here, which should not be so liberal, because we do not hide the risks, do not hide the care, do not hide the complexity of the matter, until we have ease in the matter. And the registration of the certification must be careful. But we agree that what has already been said makes sense: Portugal is not inventing the wheel, that is, there are only two countries that still have no legislative instrument to enable the use of private security companies on board. Now, there is a comparative set of laws that we can adopt, and there are Member States that can do so. Therefore, the CDS is available to, in the field of specialty, monitor this matter, but not to make such a restrictive and careful law that it ultimately falls short of the objectives and assumptions that are intended. And I can even give some examples: Article 2 ( 7 ). the proposal for a law—which in the draft authorized decree is Article 42. o — limits the recruitment of armed guards to foreign companies, provided there is no one in Portugal. That is what is expressed in the proposal, that is, there is only one to prevent it. It seems to me that it is a clear obstacle to competition. Why can there be no Portuguese companies if they have to exist, but other companies can be hired on the competitive market? And in our case, we believe that 'yes' as regards the Member States, 'yes' as regards certified undertakings, 'yes' as regards the authorisations given by the national authorities and 'yes' as regards the States with which Portugal has reciprocal agreements. We are not shocked by these aspects, but that particular aspect is limited to the existence of Portuguese companies or to people who only have Portuguese nationality or belong to the PALOP (African countries of Portuguese official language). Recognizing the care on this issue, recognizing its complexity, recognizing that it has to be national authorities to certify weapons, people and, essentially, to understand what the background of this type of companies is, in fact, we want there to be some care here, we need to strengthen and protect the International Register of Madeira Ships and the competitive climate, which is something that is at the Government's level for increasing the competitiveness of Portuguese ports and Portuguese shipowners. We therefore welcome this initiative as good, although it seems to us that it is very restrictive and careful. We would like to have more time to see comparative studies and see if, in some respects, we can create other conditions, without questioning the safety of a very complex matter, so that the country can adopt the best practices and be in a competitive climate. I do not think that the risks will be reduced, that they will perhaps be extended to more areas, areas, those where we play a lot of our competitiveness in terms of merchant marine, so a good law is a key aid and instrument so that Portuguese shipowners can have a good competitive climate. We even know that companies that provide this service today are not part of European States are essentially outside the Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u140	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u141	I will finish, Mr. President. However, if we do not find the right mechanisms, whether they are reciprocal or bilateral, we may be limiting the Portuguese shipowners, who must be able to safely use the availability of the market, whether they are national, Member States or others. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u143	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This bill, which is intended to authorize the Government to approve the legal regime for the exercise of armed private security activity on board ships flying the Portuguese flag and passing through high-risk areas and therefore more susceptible to piracy, will, in our view, go in the right direction for two essential reasons, despite some precautions to be taken. The first reason concerns the safety of persons and goods on ships. Ensuring greater safety with professionals specialized in this area will ensure more effective protection and will reassure workers who exercise their profession in the high seas. The second reason has to do with an issue of equality and harmonisation between Portugal and the other countries. Portugal and Lithuania, as mentioned above, are the only countries in the European Union which have no legislation to allow private security professionals to be hired on board ships registered in their countries. This inequality has made many ships, which could hold the Portuguese flag, legitimately opt for another flag that guarantees them better and better security possibilities. This is an existing situation in all other countries which has not brought particularly adverse effects, and this can be an important step towards improving the national maritime sector and the competitiveness of Portugal, also providing for the safety of people and goods, conditions identical to those of other countries. For these reasons, it joins the fact that it is a matter which has already been debated and which brings together a broad consensus, as demonstrated by the opinions of the various bodies that have spoken, which have joined together a number of voices that have been calling for the resolution of this legislative omission to be resolved. However, this bill is not exempt from criticism or, at least, from precautions to be taken. A possible ridicule by those who do not have the ability to provide security services causes not only ridicule but also ridicule by means of Article 45 ( 3 ). the, which refers to the same penalty for hiring the services of companies or persons providing security services. This issue, as well as the care to be taken with the type of weaponry on board ships, will, of course, have to be guarded. Finally, and since we are talking in this proposal about private security, the Left Block wants to take advantage of to alert and point out that the private security sector faces serious problems in our country, serious difficulties, and its legislation lacks urgent review, that this government has already committed itself to carrying out but which it longs for. Despite all this, we believe that this is a coherent and necessary measure and we will therefore vote in favour of this bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u144	To close the debate on this bill, I have the floor of the Minister of the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the interventions that have been made. In fact, this is another step towards strengthening the competitiveness of our maritime and port systems and our registers. Of course, it is always a pleasure for the Government to see the recognition by all the banks that it is legislating in the right direction. It is very nice and, therefore, I thank all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. I also welcome the recognition, although subject to improvements, that this is a diploma proportional to the problem we are facing, that all of it excels by the adequacy of international benchmarking — I am referring - exactly to international best practices — and that it follows all the recommendations that are made, in particular, by the International Maritime Organization, which is the coordinator in this area. I would also like to say that the references that have been made, of course, can and should be discussed at the level of the specialty, because this space of time will allow them to read this initiative more carefully. I would indeed recommend a more careful reading, because this diploma provides for the use of companies of various nationalities, in fact, of all nationalities which have mutuality agreement with Portugal, which can never be surrounded, because reciprocity is a basic international relationship, but can only be supplemented. None of us would like it to be possible to hire a company in a country where it would not be possible to hire a Portuguese company. Reciprocity is a matter of sovereignty and must therefore be expected. I would also like to point out that what is planned is not only if there are no Portuguese companies that can be hired, but also if it is justified by routes, by opportunity, by timing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u146	Mrs. Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u147	I will finish, Mr. President. Parliament will therefore not fail to make this diploma perfect in the field of expertise. Thank you all very much and good work! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u148	With the intervention of the Minister, we close the debate on the Proposal for a Law No 175 / XIII / 4. a. We have thus moved on to the following point on the general assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 177 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Strengthens the fight against tax evasion practices by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164. To present this legislative initiative, I have the floor of Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, to whom I would just ask for an instant, so that I may ask the Members. Members who feel and who create conditions for Mr. Secretary of State to be heard as to how to be heard. [[Pause.]] Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring today to the Assembly of the Republic deals with the fight against tax evasion. One of the primary objectives of any tax system is to combat fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. If the fight against fraud and tax evasion is assimilated by everyone, the fight against tax evasion, aggressive tax planning, it is much harder to do because it has an appearance of legality in itself. That is why it is important for countries to take concerted action. The bill currently under discussion is important because it transposes an OECD initiative ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) for concerted action by all Member States in order to create a minimum standard of anti-tax electoral standards. That is why, when we present this bill, we are pleased to note that most of the issues that needed to be addressed, or which is contained in the directive, had already been incorporated into the Portuguese legal system. For this reason, the changes to the IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) that are proposed here are merely technical refinements, which demonstrates well that, throughout the various legislatures, the country was able to be on the front line in good practices in combating tax elections. But this bill has a very important innovation from the point of view of domestic law: we promote an amendment to the general anti-abuse clause provided for in the general tax law. This is important because it allows us to create more certainty for both taxpayers and the Tax Authority. The aim is to direct the anti-abuse clause to those who are effectively beneficiaries of income and to provide for strict cases in which there may be tax substitution and also the process inherent in the activation of this anti-abuse clause. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe, therefore, that preserving our taxable bases and ensuring that the taxation of profits is made exactly where it should be made is important and is an objective that this bill comes to help, putting Portugal, I say again, in front of the fight against aggressive tax planning. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u150	Mr Secretary of State, you will have a task of « electing»,... [[Laughing.]] ... as it will be addressed to you a question and you only have one second to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u151	He's got two minutes on lockdown.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u152	Yeah, you'll have two minutes for the closure, but... Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the Government has chosen not to include in this proposal the legislative amendments relating to the so-called hybrid asymmetries, which would eliminate the possibility of companies taking advantage of tax disparities between countries to pay less taxes in cross-border operations. I therefore ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how this option justifies and when it provides that these measures, relating to hybrid asymmetries, are introduced into labour law. As regards the remaining four dimensions in which the Government intends to intervene with this bill, namely the limitation of interest deduction, out-of-the-box taxation, the general anti-abuse clause and the relocation of business profits, I ask you what is the impact of the tax revenue on IRC. The government will certainly have done some studies and will have estimates to share with this House. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u154	Mr President, the Secretary of State will use the final 2 minutes to answer your question if you wish. For an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: Tax elition is an unacceptable source of inequalities, as it offers a competitive advantage to non-compliant companies, in the face of fulfillments. The PSD has always defended, with concrete measures, the fight against tax elections, either in the previous government or in the current legislation. Moreover, as you have remembered, and well Mr Secretary of State, went with the PSD and CDS government, through the reform of IRC, which have been poured into the law several principles that today form part of the package on the tax election, including the directive we are now discussing. It is also important to remember that, already in this Parliament, it was the PSD that initiated an initiative — that of the Green Card — that if it had been adopted by a minimum number of national parliaments, it could have become a European legislation in order to strengthen the exchange of information between Member States and would have enabled it to fight even more effectively the tax elite. Mr Secretary of State, the partial transposition of the directive which the Government here presents complete, therefore, the work started in the past—in particular with the previous reform of the IRC—and should contribute effectively to reducing asymmetries between companies and increasing justice and tax transparency. For this reason, the PSD will support this initiative, and there will obviously be room for improvements, which we will discuss in the coming weeks in the field of expertise. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State : Having said this, this debate is an opportunity to think about the challenges facing companies in Portugal. The PSD — I myself have warned, too, of this situation — has verified and reiterated that Portugal currently has the second highest rate of IRC in Europe, and France is the country with the highest rate. Therefore, we are soon following France in terms of the maximum IRC rate for companies. However, it is essential for the PSD to resume the reform of the IRC — which has contributed to putting into law all these measures on the tax election that Mr. Secretary of State has just mentioned — initiated by the previous Government, which contained a number of measures, in particular the reduction of the IRC rate. For the PSD, reducing the IRC rate and continuing this reform, initiated by the previous government, is fundamental not only because it would make our companies more competitive, not only because it would give an important signal to other investors and foreign investors who would like to attract to Portugal, but also Mr. Secretary of State, because it would discourage the use of complex tax buildings to avoid taxes, which is partly one of the situations we are discussing today. For this reason, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to renew here today the sense of urgency that the PSD has in the reform of the IRC, in the resumption of the reform of the IRC, also as a measure to combat the fiscal election. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u156	On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State: The main obstacle, I believe, to the realization of greater taxation justice is the difficulty of taxation that emerges from the fact that there is mobility and ease of allocation of certain tax bases to any jurisdiction where there is a regime in which, fundamentally, there is no taxation. The dematerialization of activities reinforces this trend and allows an affectation of the tax base that is purely artificial, is a mere legal or accounting construction without any relation to material economic activity. Within our European internal market, these are the rules of the internal market which serve to prevent obstacles to this mobility which will eventually prevent each State from taxing the economic activity that is actually carried out on its territory. It was therefore very important for international cooperation around the construction of rules that would prevent this escape from taxes that are made within the rules, within the law, and that for this reason is called 'election'. It was a very important process initiated by the OECD, given by the name « BEPS », and which was followed, I believe very slowly by the European Union. Of course, the European Union is subject to the rule of unanimity in tax matters and I must remind you that the European Commission's proposal is precisely that it is on issues relating to the fight against fraud, avoidance and aggressive tax planning which eliminates the rule of unanimity. I do not think it is worth defending unanimity here as a claim of sovereignty, because whenever there is a country with a zero-taxation regime, unanimity will serve so that it can oppose the change of rules and the great limitation of sovereignty is the limitation that emerges from the impossibility of countries exercising taxation on economic activity that effectively develops within its territory. Since taxation is zero, it is not worth much to think that, down 3, 4 or 5 points at the IRC rate, we eliminate the incentive for these artificial constructions, for the simple reason that we always compare a rate that exists with a rate that does not actually exist. along this legislation a set of measures has already been set up in our legislation relating to this process — the rules on patent incomes, the rules on automatic exchange of information on taxes, the country-by-country reporting regime, the signing of the multilateral agreement that allowed the automatic adaptation of many tens of our conventions on double taxation. We believe that this is another step which, in the proper sense, leads to the development of our tax legislation in the fight against avoidance, allowing for a fairer division of the tax burden. This has been an effort which has united, I believe, the various benches of this House of the Republic and which will necessarily have the favourable vote of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u158	Mr Mariana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group is now speaking for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u159	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members : Today we look at the functioning of the world economy and we realize that fraud and tax evasion are a structural problem for the functioning of economies. There are known cases of multinationals such as Google, Amazon or Starbucks using Ireland, for example, to escape taxes. But there are no exceptions, the largest multinationals in the world today pay effective tax rates that are 9 percentage points below what they paid before the 2008 financial crisis. And they do so because they use offshore networks, because they exploit all the possibilities of national laws to move their tax bases to more favourable regimes, such as Ireland or Luxembourg. In the short term, these are the countries — Luxembourg and Ireland — which benefit from this scheme and will therefore always be against any rule that would be imposed on minimum taxation. That is why the rule of unanimity is a problem for fiscal justice. In the long run, we know no one wins. It is a fund race, in which we all go behind the damage and in which companies lose tax burden and tax revenue. Portugal, despite being one of the losing countries of this type of scheme, participated actively in it. We are well reminded of offshore companies created by BPN, BCP and BES, which offered tax evasion services to several companies in the country. During the 1990s, for example, it became known as Operation Furacão, in which many of these companies paid part of what they were supposed to and never went to court, were never judged for what they did. We know well how the large companies of the PSI 20 have their headquarters in the Netherlands. And it's not because they sell huge products in the Netherlands, it's to pay less taxes. We know well the effects of the three fiscal amnesties that PS, PSD and CDS have approved and served to whiten tax fraud and tax leaks. We also know that it was to facilitate the tax planning that served the regime of participation exemption from the previous government or the rules on the taxation of patents and interest, which put Portugal on the European Commission's radar for the benefit of tax planning. We have managed to take positive steps and reverse some of these measures. The latter were to allow financial access to information about offshorers and information about tax amnesty. Mr Secretary of State was at first not very convinced of these measures, but although it was possible to convince him. Those are good steps. That is why we can only welcome the measures now coming to Parliament. We're in favour of all of them. But we also wanted to remember that many of them, such as the densification of anti-abuse clauses or out-of-the-box forms of taxation, had already been discussed in a working group between the Socialist Party, the Government and the Left Block and, at the time, the Government and the Socialist Party did not want to move forward, because this is one of the subjects in which the Government does not want to be in the front platoon, it does not want to do more than others do. Fight avoidance and tax fraud, yes, but not much, just enough, not to be in front of others! It is a pity that this principle of fiscal justice which Mr. Secretary of State here has come to proclaim so convincingly does not also apply to the sinister regime of visasgold, so adjusted to money laundering at international level. It is a pity that the principles also do not apply to the unjustifiable regime of unusual residents. It is also a pity, Mr Secretary of State, that it does not extend to the huge fraud that exists at the International Business Centre in Madeira, where hundreds of companies share the same tax section, with no other objective than to run away from tax, with jobs that are easily created. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u160	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u161	All this is known to everyone and the government wants to fight tax fraud, but not enough to end this regime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u162	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: On this regime that we are discussing today, in the fight against tax elections, we agree with the objectives. However, I think that, in the face of the debate we have had here, we should put the points to ourselves and explain what we are talking about. We are talking about rules for combating tax elections, which have, in fact, a history which Mr. Secretary of State has not denied, a history that has already begun before this government — and we continue to honour this story — but we must understand what we are talking about when we talk about these rules. It is that what these rules fight is an extremely aggressive tax plan, which aims to take advantage of various regimes in several countries to simply not pay taxes. This is what we call extremely aggressive fiscal competition and, more importantly, unfair competition. And the CDS is not in favour of unfair competition, it has never been, and it has taken several steps, while in government, to fight it. But that does not mean that we are in favour of what we have heard in this plenary, which is the concept that there can be no tax competition between countries and that, as far as corporate taxation is concerned, Portugal must be a little or no competitive country, a country with an extraordinarily high taxation for companies. We disagree, at all, with that vision, which is apparently with this majority. from our point of view, the objective of companies is not to pay more and more, and more, and more taxes to the state. At the end of this taxation, there are always people who see themselves in countries that grow much less than what should grow. In fact, it is not by chance that when we talk about emigration, for example, we realize that people prefer countries that have competitive taxation for companies, because that taxation, in the medium and long term, allows people to live better, have more income and have more quality of life. We also dispute and are absolutely unfavourable to the idea—which seems to be the idea of the PS—that Portugal should not, at least, have sovereignty to choose its taxation. Portugal has to do what most European countries have to do — that is what the PS says.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u164	That is what the European Constitution says!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u165	And you say that why? Because, for the PS, the Portuguese economy will always be at the little boys' club. You don't even imagine that Portugal can, one day, have a great strategic interest like the sea or have a multinational.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u166	We've had it, it was Cimpor!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u167	For the gentlemen, Portugal will always be at the little ones' club where the economy is concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u168	For you, it was misery!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u169	In fact, with your policies, it will be. But we do not even think that this Parliament has the legitimacy to abdicate the right of choice not only of our generation but of future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u171	Taxation is of the few camps in which we are still sovereign and it is worth preserving that sovereignty. Finally, I would like to talk a little bit about the political hypocrisy of the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u172	Mrs. Member, a little bit, but very, very, very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u173	It's a little short, Mr. President. It is a great political hypocrisy, Mr President, while economic growth is being celebrated, that we do not see the regimes that largely explain it. Nor does it cease to be extraordinary the Left Block, which is so outraged by the tax regime of unusual residents and who had four years to propose its end, did not do so. You don't understand why you didn't. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u174	Don't you? Oh, my God! So we didn't propose? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u175	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The proposed law which the Government brings today is aimed at adopting a set of measures to combat tax elections, which is mainly practiced by large companies, i.e. those who have the resources needed to make aggressive tax planning. The CFP values all measures aimed at improving the fight against tax evasion practices and contributing to a fairer and more appropriate corporate taxation and will therefore follow the Government's initiative. We also point out that what has been done in this area is beyond what is necessary. Without prejudice to necessary collaboration with other countries in combating fraud, evasion and tax evasion, there are measures at national level that can and should be implemented in order to counter these phenomena. This cooperation, which we reiterate is necessary, particularly at the level of the European Union and other international bodies, cannot serve as an excuse for national measures to be postponed. We also believe that the Government should play a more active role with other countries and international bodies in order to eliminate tax havens in the long run. It is not acceptable for citizens with higher incomes and large companies to continue to use these paradises to exempt themselves from their obligations to society on a fiscal basis, thereby depriving them of billions of euros annually. Finally, we consider it essential...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u177	Mr. Deputy, just a moment. There is a lot of noise in the Chamber, so I ask the Members who are standing and back to the Bureau to sit down or leave the Chamber. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen standing, although not from back to the Bureau, but on the other hand, I would like to thank you for sitting down. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Mr. Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u178	Finally, we consider it essential that the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ) be endowed with human and material resources that allow it to respond adequately to aggressive tax planning practices by large companies, economic groups and multinationals, which, as we know, have vast resources directed towards this. Mr Secretary of State, no omelettes are made without breaking eggs, nor will the AT be able to give a full response to the practices of electoral, fraud and tax evasion if it is not provided with additional resources and if its workers are not properly valued at wage, career and working conditions. in this field, as the Secretary of State well knows, there is still much to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u179	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not want to spoil the unanimity that the legislative initiative of the Government brings to this House, because I think the essential point is that we all agree on the fight against tax elections. But, Mrs Inês Domingos and Mrs Cecilia Meireles — Mrs Cecilia Meireles is no longer present...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u181	I am, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u182	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that I have said that the measures to combat tax elections have not started in this legislature does not mean that they have started in the past legislation. What you were advised was to see precisely those instruments of the IRC Code, which have been there for a long time, is not an exclusive of this or previous legislation. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I also do not want to damage the consensus of all the banks in the fight against tax elections, but, Madam Deputy, there is no championship to combat electoral, fraud and tax evasion here. And much less, if there was this championship, the honourable Member would win it! Madam Member, it is very important that we value things as they are. The most important measures to combat fraud and tax evasion in this Parliament were all the information exchange measures, which allow us to have information on territories with more favourable jurisdiction today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u183	It's true! That's what we've been defending for 10 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u184	... but also on other territories. And this information enables us to have an effective fight against fraud and tax evasion in our risk matrices.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u185	We've been defending him for 10 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u186	Mrs Deputy, when we introduced the material criterion to not only increase the taxation of offshore operations, it was also in this sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u187	Don't forget to answer my questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u188	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the point is this: Portugal continues on the front line of the fight against tax elections. Mr. Paulo Sá, I know you are in a hurry, but the deadline for transposition of the ATAD 2 (Anti-Tax Notice Directive), which regulates hybrid mechanisms, is only December 31, 2019, and we will present the diploma in due time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u189	And what is the estimate of the recipe? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u190	We have thus reached the end of the discussion, in general, of the Bill No 177 / XIII / 4. a. We are now entering the voting period. While Mr. Members register electronically, Secretary Pedro Alves will take note of the legislative initiatives which have now entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u191	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the Bills Nos. 1147 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code, creating restrictions on the suspension of the sentence of imprisonment in domestic violence cases and raising the criminal frame of this crime, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1148 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, preventing the refusal of testimony by the victim of domestic violence and prohibiting the provisional suspension of domestic violence proceedings, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1149 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Thirty-second amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the application of the coercion measure of prohibition and imposition of conduct when there is strong evidence of the practice of the crime of persecution, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1150 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), ensuring compulsory training for judges in domestic violence, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1151 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims, which falls to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 2024 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Bureau. a ( BE) — Recommends the establishment of a mission structure for the recovery of dependencies in the Foreign and Border Service, which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u192	I ask the services to present the results of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 198 presences, to which 4 deputies ( Fernando Rocha Andrade, Helena Roseta and Joaquim Barreto, PS, and Paulo Rios de Oliveira, PSD ) are added, making 202 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting vote No 750 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by a PS member ) — Praised by 20. the edition of the Literary Festival : Currents D ́Escrites — Municipality of Povoa de Varzim. I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read this vote. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Twenty years ago, the municipality of Póvoa de Varzim, fulfilling the strategic desire to leverage in culture and leisure the city's economy, advanced with the realization of a literary festival, the first in its genre in Portugal, bringing together, around the literature of iberian expression, the vast row of book and reading. So, in this 20th. the edition, which took place from 16 to 27 February, the currents D’ Writings counted with personalities like Ignacio de Loyola Brandão and Nélia Pignon. The centenary of Sophia's birthday of Mello Breyner was not forgotten and, to celebrate, the titles of the different round tables were extracted from the author's work. In the extensive program, the emphasis is on six Saramago Awards, three Truck Awards, a Cervantes Prize and five Poker Casino Literary Awards, in a total of 140 writers and 20 countries represented. The initiative distinguished alternately prose and poetry and already counted Lídia Jorge, António Franco Alexandre, Carlos Ruiz Zafón, Ana Luísa Amaral, Ruy Duarte de Carvalho, Gastão Cruz, Maria Velho da Costa, Pedro Tamen, Rubem Fonseca, Hélia Correia, Manuel Jorge Marmelo, Fernando Echevarria, Javier Cercas, Armando Silva Carvalho, Juan Gabriel Vásquez and Luís Quintais. The strategic bet on culture and leisure is, unequivocally, a bet on Póvoa de Varzim today, according to the President of the Republic and successive Ministers and Secretaries of State of Culture have testified. Among the various sessions of releases of books, conferences, round tables and tertullias, the city and the book are increasingly walking together, towards a future which, by this way, will affirm the Povoa of Varzim as inspiring and multiplier territory of these cultural spaces in our country. in the municipality of Póvoa de Varzim, to the other entities involved, to the authors and participants in this prestigious literary festival, the Assembly of the Republic addresses a word of great and deep recognition. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u194	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 753 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — Of praise for obtaining the world title of boxing ANC. Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves will do you the favor of reading. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « António João Bento, commonly known as Bento Algarvio, consecrated Portuguese boxer, won last Saturday, the sixth assault, the fight fought in Cartagena, Colombia, by the world title ABB, in the category of light weights. With this remarkable achievement, Bento Algarvio raised to 24 the number of European and world titles throughout his career, marked by more than 150 battles in which he recorded only 18 defeats. Benedict Algarvio also notes himself as a man of unusual spirit of sacrifice, perseverance, reaching the highest level of the modality, unusual for Portuguese natural boxers. For all this, by his example of simplicity and fair play for the younger, for the recognition he has among his peers, the Assembly of the Republic praises more this facade of Antonio João Bento, Bento Algarvio. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u196	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[At the moment, the boxer Antonio João Bento, who was attending the plenary meeting, showed the medal he won, having been applauded by PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u197	We will proceed to the vote on Vote No 757 / XIII / 4a ( presented by the PSD ) — From praise to economist Teodora Cardoso for his dedication to the public cause. I would also like to ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read the vote. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The economist Teodora Cardoso now ceases his term of office before the Council of Public Finance, which he has chaired since his constitution in February 2012. Theodora Cardoso has been assigned by the previous Government to create a technical entity consisting of national and foreign experts with the task of conducting an independent evaluation on the consistency, compliance and sustainability of budgetary policy while promoting its transparency in order to contribute to the quality of democracy and economic policy decisions and to the strengthening of the financial credibility of the State. over these seven years that he chaired the Council of Public Finance, Teodora Cardoso was able to build an institution that is independent, solid, respected and of great value for the monitoring and scrutiny of the budgetary policy pursued in our country. This is not surprising when we are before a person with unquestionable technical competence, of recognized rigour and seriousness and who has always been able to demonstrate great independence from political power. With a career of more than four decades dedicated to public service, Teodora Cardoso began his course at Banco de Portugal in 1973, having performed functions in the areas of macroeconomic, monetary policy and relations with international organizations. She was also a consultant of the Administration and later the Administrator of Banco de Portugal, between 2008 and 2012. She was also a consultant to the Administration of the Portuguese Investment Bank and was a member of the Advisory Council of the Institute of Public Credit Management. In 2001, he integrated the Public Expenditure Reform Coordination Structure. At the time of the termination of office in the Council of Public Finance, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, addressed the economist Teodora Cardoso a word of deep appreciation for an intense career dedicated to the public cause and for his contribution to the transparency and improvement of the monitoring of the budgetary process. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u199	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PS Vice-President Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u200	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u201	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u202	Mr President, it is in order to inform you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u203	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed with the vote on vote No 758 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS, PSD, PAN, PCP, CDS-PP, BE and Greens ) — Greetings for Women's International Day. I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to read. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The International Women's Day, which has been noted for decades by the United Nations, is a day of evocation and an important milestone in the struggle for women's rights, also pointing out that even today, after many years, equality is far from being achieved. on this day, we recall important achievements, struggles of several generations, of the human rights of women already enshrined in international treaties and conventions and in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which enshrines equality as a constitutional principle and a fundamental task of the state. It should be noted that, despite all the advances achieved, in the practices of life there remain structural inequalities that need to change: wage inequalities, violation of maternity rights, gender-neutral representation in economic and political leadership, various discriminations guided by gender stereotypes and unacceptable domestic violence that kills tens of women every year. Signing this date is marking the path made, but also how much there is still to do. Even today, as it is emphasized by various movements of social networks and platforms, various forms of violence against women are crystallized in deafina, paying attention to their sexual freedom, more or less subtlely, in a more or less tolerated way, but also castratives of life in full freedom, rights and equality. Signing this date is also an expression of our solidarity with women victims of domestic violence. This year alone, which has just begun, 12 women have already died victims of this heinous crime, a number that makes the alarm sound, with the greatest vehemence, so that the institutions and society in general hold this scourge, summoning us all to this collective effort. We have been avant-garde in the creation of many legislative tools for gender equality and in the prevention and fight against violence against women, in line with the signing and transposition of the Istanbul Convention. The last few years have marked significant advances in the promotion of women's rights as an integral and inalienable part of universal human rights. The Assembly of the Republic, welcoming International Women's Day, thus reaffirms its firm commitment to action in the struggle for a more equal society free of discrimination and any kind of gender-based violence. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u205	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 2026 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Consequences and Political Responsibilities of Military Stealing in Tanks for 90 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall now vote together on the requests submitted by the PS, the CDS-PP, the PSD and the PAN respectively, asking for the resignation of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a period of 45 days from the Proposal for a Law No 186 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs measures to support the informal caregiver and regulates the rights and duties of the caregiver and the caretaker and drafts of Law Nos 1126 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the status of informal caregivers and sets out measures to support caretakers and their caregivers ( amends the Single Persons Income Tax Code ), 1127 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements and disciplines the family care regime, 1132 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Status of informal caregiver and 1135 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Creates the status of informal caregivers, strengthening support measures for caregivers and dependent people. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These legislative initiatives fall to 4. the Commission. We proceed with the vote on the application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a period of 30 days of the Proposal for a Law No 176 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amends the Labour Procedure Code by adapting it to the Civil Procedure Code. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u207	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u208	Mr President, I believe that there was a lapse in the indication of the committee to which a set of diplomas on the informal caregiver was lowered. The Commission is the Labour and Social Security Committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u209	You're right, Mr. Deputies, they're down to 10. the Commission and not 4. the Commission, as previously announced. We now turn to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 175 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — authorises the Government to approve a legal regime for the exercise of armed private security activity on board ships flying Portuguese flag and crossing high-risk areas of piracy. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 177 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Strengthens the fight against tax evasion practices by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1118 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures that may respond to the state of abandonment and degradation of the Roman Villa of Our Lady of Tourega. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u210	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u211	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u212	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party will present a written statement of vote on the draft resolution which has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u213	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u214	Mr President, I also call on you to inform us that the CFP will make a written statement on the vote on the draft resolution that has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u215	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u216	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u217	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u218	Mr President, I believe that you did not put to the vote draft resolution No 1114 / XIII / 3. a, the PSD, which recommends that the Government adopt measures that may respond to the state of abandonment and degradation of the Cromeleque dos Almendres, Menir dos Almendres, Anta Grande do Zambujeiro and Cromeleque Vale Maria do Meio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u219	I'm sorry, but it's not in the vote script that was delivered to me. [[Pause.]] Let us then vote on draft resolution No 1114 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to respond to the state of abandonment and degradation of the Cromeleque dos Almendres, Menir dos Almendres, Anta Grande do Zambujeiro and Cromeleque Vale Maria do Meio. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u220	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u221	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u222	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party will also present a written vote statement on the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u223	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Mesquita also asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u224	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. The CFP will also submit a written statement of vote on the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u225	We now move on to the Resolution Project No 1080 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends the automation of the allocation of the minimum service account to bank customers ( the text was replaced by the author in the Finance and Administrative Modernisation Committee ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] The draft resolution No 1981 / XIII / 4 is followed. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends that the Government negotiate with the European Commission the reduction of the medium-term objective for public finances. Let's start by voting point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the NAP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] Let us then vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1839 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government take steps to remove existing barriers to access to voluntary termination of pregnancy. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the 1 Member of the PSD (Paula Teixeira da Cruz), votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u226	Women's rights are only sometimes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-08.u227	Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft Law No 694 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Amendment to the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations and 721 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Alter the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations ( amends Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday, 13 March, for 15 hours, and political statements on its agenda. I draw attention to the fact that, in addition to the political statements of the parliamentary groups, we will have three Mrs' political statements. Members, pursuant to Article 71 ( 2 ). Article 76 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 41 minutes.]]
