ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 9 hours and 3 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. The first item on our agenda consists of an up-to-date debate required by the CDS-PP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on the application of the Community funds. To open the debate, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In December 2011, two years after the normal deadline for the implementation of the previous Community framework, the QREN ( National Strategic Reference Framework ), the implementation rate was 39 %. To be objective, 39 % was not a miracle, and we all remember the effort that had to be made, the public investment that had to be allocated in order to manage the funds as a whole. If at the end of 2015 Portugal achieved a good implementation of the Community funds, this was due to the herculeum effort of the Portuguese, workers and entrepreneurs, but also to the availability of public investment to implement it. In December 2018, two years after the end of the normal deadline of PT2020, comparing what is comparable in the implementation of this table with the previous one, the completion is 29 %, 10 percentage points below the previous one. In 2017, the then Minister Pedro Marques said : « We are anticipating the pace of implementation in three years' time» against the previous framework. Between promise and reality, the result is in sight. The implementation of a Community framework has never been so low in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The data from the Banco de Portugal, the data from the European Commission and the Agency for Development and Cohesion itself confirm what we already knew: when more precise Portugal, the Socialist Party wastes. This is not beyond the fact that in 2018 we had a public investment level below 2015. This was also a constant of this government. In 2016, in 2017 and 2018, public investment was always below 2015. Without ensuring national participation, that is, without public investment, we cannot implement Community funds. Well Mr Finance may come to say that investment is not like « Anita goes shopping », but the fact is that if the Minister of Finance does not authorize spending on the budget we need to use the money that comes from Brussels, then we will never see the series « Anita goes to the funds ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u4	We go to the Real Country, we talk to entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, workers, and everyone says the same thing to us: Community funds are late. Two years after the end of the normal period of PT2020, the implementation of the Cohesion Fund, which aims to combat territorial inequalities, is 18 %, MAR2020 is 17 %, the agricultural funds to support investment are being implemented 30 %, of the Railway 2020 programme, the great promise and propaganda of Pedro Marques, only 9 % of the funds and of the European Social Fund itself, European money to support workers and the most disadvantaged sectors of Portuguese society were implemented 34 % of the funds, 14 percentage points below what had been applied in the same period in the previous Community framework. What will it be like this year? To date, the Government is hiding the budget implementing law, which is essential to know what the level of captives will be affecting the implementation of the Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u6	For this reason, the Minister here today cannot fail to respond to the following: what will be the level of seizures of the ministries that manage European funds, what the level of captivity of his Ministry and others, and how the Government will execute the European funds in 2019. The second issue on which the Government is failing is the negotiation of the next Community support framework. As regards cohesion policy, it remains a mystery to us that Portugal, which has a GDP (gross domestic product ) per capita below the European average, will be penalised with a 7% cut in cohesion policy, while other countries, such as Luxembourg, Austria, Finland, Belgium, Spain or Italy, all with GDP above the European average, do not suffer cuts. Cohesion policy cannot be weakened, as it corresponds to a historic compromise of balance between the completion of the internal market and the reduction of divergences between the various European economies. This mystery also extends to Community funds for agriculture. As we know, the critical point for Portugal is the cut of 15 % on the second pillar, which has to do with investment in agriculture, with the modernization and internationalisation of our agriculture, which is a sector that represents a great deal in our exports. This week, the Minister of Planning told us two absolutely amazing things. The first is that the Government feels that Portugal has little to do with the European negotiation, saying that the Minister is amazed at those who think that Portugal's decision may regret the conclusion of the Council. We believe that the voice of Portugal counts and that it should count much more than it does with this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u8	The second statement is that the negotiation is put — the word of the Minister of Planning — « in the freezer». We want to say this very directly: delaying the next Community framework is dramatic for Portugal. If the implementation of this Community framework is already bad, if there is discontinuity with this framework and with the next Community framework — and none of us know when and how the next European Commission will be appointed — the situation for Portugal can be dramatic. What contingency plan is the Portuguese Government preparing? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u9	There are no inscriptions. We'll wait a little while until the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen sign up. [[Pause.]] Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u10	Mr President, the CFP has no hesitation in this debate, we are willing to move forward with our intervention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already said that the worst thing that can be done in the face of real problems is to make false approaches. We are facing real problems from the point of view of the implementation of the Community funds. We are facing real problems of a deeper and more structural level in the debate on territorial development and investment policy. The policy of European cohesion, the policy of economic, social and territorial cohesion announced by the European Union has not had the results that have been promised neither by the European Commission nor by the Portuguese governments. The structural funds are far from having brought the concrete results, from having made all the difference that they were supposed to make in the lives of people, in the modernisation of infrastructures, in the development of the territory. The fact is that there is, historically, a poor use of resources that could be made available for investment in our country, but it is even more true that these resources, which were presented to the country through the Community frameworks and the structural funds, would be far from compensating. Moreover, they could never compensate for the loss of capital, productive potential and wealth creation that the shock of European integration and the deepening of this policy of the European Union has been causing to our country. There is a low level of implementation of the Structural Funds, but we would like to stress that a serious approach is needed to say that this low level of implementation of the Structural Funds is both in Portugal and in general the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u12	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not try to deceive people with this speech as if low execution was a kind of endemic disease in our country. It's not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the obvious result of an even more complex, bureaucratic and morbid Community framework than all the other previous Community frameworks, which were already complex, bureaucratic and morbid. What we in the Assembly of the Republic have heard over time in relation to the balance sheet to be made of this same picture Portugal 2030 is a complex Kafkiana and absolutely impractical in the management of Community funds. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have heard this as we have heard! This is the concrete result of the options that have been taken within the framework of the European Union, which have been detrimental to our country, but which have also benefited from the strongest interests and powers of the European Union. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen deny this if they are capable! [[PSD protests.]] This problem exists both in Portugal and in most countries of the European Union, and this is reflected in the Banco de Portugal's Economic Bulletin. This is the reading that is being done, but it is late in addressing this problem. I would like to ask you a question. Members of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u13	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u14	The question has to do with the reprogramming which was the subject of the agreement reached by the Government in December with Commissioner Corina Cretu, who was in Lisbon: what is the evolution — we are in April — of this reprogramming and its implementation since the announcement was made in December? On what foot are we on? Surely we can't be like we were last December. What has evolved since then? Why reduce investment in the territory so much? Please tell us what is the proportion of these EUR 7 billion announced in the reprogramming and what is the level of investment in the territory within that amount. Even with regard to support for companies, I ask: what specificity is being given in support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in fact fulfilling a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic, adopted on a proposal from the CFP last year, with a view to supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in this country? By insisting on an aspect which, being symbolic from the point of view of amounts, is significant for the interior regions and for the raean areas of our country, we come back to the following question: where is the point of view of cross-border cooperation? What is the advance for the Interreg programme, for successive generations of the Interreg, which was often referred to as a solution, like panacea for those most repressed areas? in this matter, it is referred to as a solution, but there is no news worthy of that name. Finally, I would like to make a point which cannot fail to be made: we cannot ignore this truly insanable contradiction of Community funds in relation to investment, infrastructure modernization, territorial development that live side by side with brutal constraints, with ties to public investment and the development, as a result of the partnership agreement itself, of the macroeconomic conditionalities and the financial garrote which is placed through the policy from Brussels. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u15	There are still no entries for further interventions, despite this opportunity given by Mr Bruno Dias. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope you take the initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u16	It's all very embarrassing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u17	As you know, in these discussions, although there is usually no written rule, who has the initiative of the debate makes the last intervention, the penultimate done by the Government, in order to be able to answer all the issues that arise. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u18	The debate can end now! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u19	Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u20	Mr President, Minister for Planning, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members: What we expect from the Minister today is to do what he did not do on Wednesday this week in the committee, that is to present solutions for the proper implementation of the Community's Fund Country. We hope that the Minister will give us a positive energy to draw Portugal from this disastrous and frightening situation in the implementation of the Community funds. Mr President, this week he tried to show us that an execution of 33 % was more than 39 %, see there! He tried to demonstrate that the execution of homologous periods, which is 33 %, is higher than the QREN period! [[PSD members currently displayed posters where it was written: "For the PS Government, Tx 33% >]] Tx 39 %’. [[PS and PCP protests.]] In fact, the Minister has tried to show it with a chart of a study by the Banco de Portugal, which clearly shows, at least for those who are not Daltonic, the situation of the implementation of Community funds. Mr Minister, several CSFs have already passed (Community support frameworks) — QCA I, QCA II, QCA III — has passed QREN, we are in Portugal 2020 and we are with the worst implementation ever. It is indeed a disastrous execution! [[PS and PCP protests.]] I understand your nervousness, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is a disastrous execution, because it has already passed 2014... [[PS and PCP protests.]] Mr. President, that's not the case. There's a noise. [[Congratulations and laughter from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u21	Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u22	I understand the nervous enthusiasm that comes from the left. The years of 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 have passed, and we are at an implementation rate of 33 %, which is actually 29 % if we take the EAFRD ( European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development ). In fact, the government makes comparisons with other countries to try to deceive, but if we compare what is comparable, i.e. rates, we are in seventh place. More, Mr Minister : be careful, because France will present a payment plan and will exceed Portugal, Spain is doing the same and will also pass Portugal, and the Minister knows that. Watch out for that! It's always falling, Minister! But, after all, if this is so good, where's the money going? Since you are so well executed, Minister, where is that seen? In the implementation of public infrastructure? In scientific and technological infrastructure it is not — it is almost zero; in business infrastructure it is not — it is almost zero; in social equipment it is not — it is zero; in health equipment it is not — it is almost zero; in education equipment it is not — it is almost zero; in Ferrovia 2020 it is 9 % — it is not there; in COMPETE 2020 (Operational Competitiveness and Internationalisation) it is not 32 % — it is not there, even if it is better; in regional operational programmes it is between 16 % and 21 % — it is terrible, terrible, miserable! Will it be in the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Resource Efficiency), that operational program of sustainability that supports public infrastructure? Oh, my God! Neither is it, because the execution is 21 %! So, after all, where's the money, Minister? Where is the wonderful execution of this government? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u23	The government indeed has a very serious problem! And you must present your resolution to the country! Mr Minister, right now, we would very much like to know what brings us today in terms of performance results. Will performance results only appear after the elections? Is that it, Minister? Indeed, when we talk about performance results, we get very, very concerned. Why? The regional operational programmes will lose money, the social inclusion program will lose money and there are risks, Minister, because the data are alarming. Why don't you show the performance indicators we asked for so long ago, Minister? Do you have a problem with that? If it is a matter of transparency, they show the results to the Portuguese and to Parliament, which has long been asking for them. In fact, what response will the Government give to the European Commission, which even last week raised the problem of measures to combat poverty? Or rather, what results does the Government have in order to present to the European Commission measures for social inclusion? After all, where are the indicators, Minister? Present us the results! The performance framework is indeed miserable, Mr Minister. Finally, I would like to ask you one more question: will the Minister continue to use the money for social inclusion in professional internships in order to hide unemployment? Will that be the goal? Will you continue to do so? That is what you are doing, Minister, and the European Commission demonstrates it! [[PS MP Margarida Marques protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u24	Who started doing that? Oh, my God! What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u25	I understand nervousness, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you one last question, which is emerging: what is happening with the Solidarity Fund? What's going on?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u26	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u27	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I expect some tolerance. The Solidarity Fund should be used to assist in particular the damage caused by the 2017 — 2017 fires! How are we in terms of implementation, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u28	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u29	What results do you have to present? In fact, better, when will the funds be applied, Minister? When?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u30	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u31	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Will these results be presented only after the elections? Let's see! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u32	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Planning: The issue that the CDS brings to us today on the application of Community funds is in fact a misproduced remake of the discussion we had before 6. Parliamentary Commission on this subject and which was also raised by the parties on the right. In fact, at the meeting of the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, this issue focused on the great question of whether the country was entitled to the 'yellow shirt' or 'green shirt' in the implementation of Portugal 2020, or whether the sixth or seventh place of this ranking was in effect. It was not in the interest of the parties to the right to discuss in this Commission whether, for example, the very modest indicators of the implementation of national public investment — which is largely related to the implementation of the Community funds — justified or not to a large extent some of the figures which are reflected in the implementation of the operational programmes themselves, in particular the regional operational programmes. It was also not interested in discussing the data from the 2018 budget implementation, which show that 1700 million in investment already budgeted and calibrated were still to be applied in public investment. This deficit, in fact, which justifies the figures presented by the Government for the success of its budgetary policies, is largely a matter that goes beyond the parties on the right, the CDS and the PSD, because also in time the government of those parties, the fiscal deficit fetish marked all budgetary policy and public investment policy. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, in terms of public investment, we need not only measures that in time extend the positive impact of this public investment, but also that some of the investment projects which have been transferred under the Portugal 2020 budget reprogramming are duly evaluated. This has led to some of the investments affecting regional operational programmes being channelled to the SEUR PO, in particular for the development of the metro networks in Lisbon and Porto, being far from being demonstrated that these investments are the best, even from the point of view of the development of the metro network in Lisbon and Porto, in particular the construction of its circular lines. in this measure, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you once again whether the Government does not foresee the revision of these investment projects in the light of the impacts which, from a social and economic point of view, can bring about better for the demand for existing public transport not only in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto but also of public investment in transport, particularly in the railway, which, inland, constitute essential levers for the growth and development of the territories. A second aspect that is as important or more important to safeguard is that public investment measures are not torpedoed by other measures in which the governments of PS, CDS and PSD were users and workers in their time. An essential element, and on which I leave a question to Mr Pedro Mota Soares, is the impact that the decision to introduce tolls on inland highways and on which there are no alternatives to the development of normal traffic flows has had the effect of drying up the investment and development of these territories. We have systematically defended the idea that the tolls in A23, in A24, in A25, in A22 should be abolished and on this matter the right has never had a word of comfort for all those who, inside, defend this same measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u34	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u35	The question that I leave to both the Government and the right is to know why they do not adopt a social policy to promote access to the interior territories through the elimination of tolls. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u36	You've got the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u37	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS emerges in this debate to demand rigour. However, Mr Pedro Mota Soares began his speech without any rigour. I would like to tell the honourable Member that whoever closed the previous Community framework was not your government, it was this government. What you did was start the PT 2020, and you started it badly. So in conclusion, to be rigorous, this government closed the previous framework, and closed it well; what you did was start this frame, and start wrong. This is the conclusion that you should have arrived when you spoke about the rostrum instead of saying what you said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to say that, today, we are faced with the strange case of the currently out-of-date debate. What the CDS wanted to do was reheat a fantasy of the CDS and PSD that lasts many months for election purposes, for the electoral flag, near the elections. That's what Mr wanted to do, that's what the CDS has done, that's the CDS position in recent times. But, Mr President, in this debate there are other facts which are unusual. Trying to discuss the implementation of the Community funds in this framework, not with elements related to the implementation of the funds, but with elements related to the implementation of the budget, is, in our view, another debate, Mr. It is another debate that is not this!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u39	Is it all a lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u40	It must be remembered — and Mr Pedro Mota Soares knows - that the mechanisms related to captivating existed in the other governments, exist in this government and will exist in the next governments, of course. What did not exist in this government — and we hope that it does not exist in the next government — was the preparation of a Community plan, as important as 2020, in such a disastrous and distorted manner as it did in the PSD and CDS government. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] That, yes, was something that the honourable Member has hidden, that you have hidden in this plenary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u42	... and that should have been mentioned in the first place. The way they did it was stomped. And I give you just two examples that have largely compromised the accusations that you have made. Ladies and gentlemen have come to do. First of all — and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, there was an excess of financial instruments in the framework that you negotiated. And, Mr, it was not a little too much, it was too big, it was eight times more than ever possible to execute in the previous tables. We are, in fact, talking about a'mass pipe' which needed companies to run, but which was completely impossible to execute,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u44	... and that you put in this Community framework, compromising its implementation, which had to be resolved by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u46	In addition, you gave the picture to this government without it being at least prepared for public investment. And you know very well that it is not the same thing as running Community funds with companies and running Community funds for public investment. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] It therefore had to be this government to « put together the sleeves » and prepared the framework in record time so that public investment could happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u48	You have not been able to. And if there are any questions about it, just remember what you did in two years: you executed EUR 4 million! In what areas? Only in the private sector, because the public sector was not ready! That's not possible to hide. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] This government was able to make an excellent reprogramming of the framework and was, in fact, praised by the whole country, not only having been praised by the PSD and the CDS against the whole country. He made an excellent reprogramming, which allowed him to put on the agenda what needed to be put: more support for private investment and more support for territorial investment, which is in this reprogramming and which is already beginning to bear fruit. Then there is still that insanitary contradiction that PSD and CDS always bring to this House, which is to claim for more public investment. Mr Pedro Mota Soares and Mrs. PSD Members, it is good to remember that claiming more public investment is not for anyone you want, it is for whom you can!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u49	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u50	PSD and CDS spent years of government criticizing public investment, saying public investment was a disaster! And this is your mark! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Suddenly, you came to the debate on good public investment, and still well. But it wasn't like that. You have always criticized public investment, and that cannot be hidden from this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u51	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u52	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this current debate scheduled by the CDS, which is, after all, out of date, has been used by the CDS to be a debate on the future. In other words, Mr Pedro Mota Soares used his crystal ball and resolved to predict that what is not yet decided, the PT 2030, will fail.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u53	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u54	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr President, let us be serious: this government is fully aware of the challenges on the table. This Government has not accepted the 7 % reduction, as you know, and we will of course make a decisive contribution to ensuring that the next financial allocation is adequate for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u55	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recent events, in fact, last week, may justify the repetition of this debate within such a short period of three weeks, I believe. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] In fact, during last week, two reference institutions, the Banco de Portugal and the European Commission, came to give their views, distant and independent, on the matter which brings us back to Parliament today. One and the other confirmed what the Government, the Ministry of Planning and the Agency for Development and Cohesion said. [[Mr Duarte Marques's laughter.]] One and the other came in different ways to say what is an undeniable reality: what the European Commission, with a high-level delegation on the presentation of the European Semester Report, informed us that Portugal was in the second place ex anecdotal at the rate of implementation of structural funds at European Union level. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u57	It's not first anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u58	It was objective and confirmed what we said, that is, that we are on the platoon in front of the implementation of the funds. Two days later, in the March economic report, the Banco de Portugal, using a different methodology, comparing the countries whose importance of the structural funds is greater, i.e. where the funds weigh more than 1 % of GDP, also arrived — calculate! — the conclusion that Portugal led the ranking of these countries within the framework of the European Union. [[All right!]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u59	Well, ladies. Members of the CDS and PSD, what will they now say? What have we handled the services of the European Commission? What have we influenced Banco de Portugal to come in support, in support, of our conclusions, perhaps with other clothes? Is that what you're going to say? [[PSD protests.]] They may invent other and more creative or fanciful comparisons, but they will never deny what we have said: that Portugal currently goes to the front stage of the implementation of the structural funds in Europe. And even more: when they claim, they say, they take and lower what is done in the implementation of structural funds in Europe, in the current European context, when they quote the data by programmes, it is also important to mention as an example that Portugal has now placed in the second place of the European Table the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Internationalisation as the second programme with the highest level of implementation at European level in the ranking of ERDF programmes ( European Regional Development Fund ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, it is first of all among the programmes with greater implementation at the level of the European Social Fund, with the Operational Human Capital Programme ( POCH ). They are data that can confirm, if desired, by consulting the Open Data portal of the European Commission. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u60	They don't like that data!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u61	They're data that's available to everyone. They can say what they understand, but they are current data, data that can consult and confirm what I said. I shall quickly respond to the questions raised by the various banks. The PSD bench has already helped to respond or at least correct what Mr Mota Soares said, saying that there was a 10 % differential. Deeply, with several posters, the PSD has already corrected Mr Mota Soares. Mr President, it is not 10 %, it is, after all, 7%! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] But let us not forget that much of this difference is due to a number of questions, and Mr Pereira has already referred to one of them. This is the inflatation of financial instruments in various programmes, including regional operational programmes. It is also a matter of negotiating the prohibition of eligibility, as in the case of road and as in the case of difficulties created with mapping, particularly schools, which at present make it difficult to implement this framework. And who did you trade and accept these situations? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was the previous government that negotiated this picture and you are the ones who make it difficult to implement it and comply with it every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u62	Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u63	But even in this framework of difficulties, it is important to say this: we now have EUR 9 billion in funds implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u64	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u65	And we can say that of these EUR 9 billion executed, 90 %, i.e. EUR 8 billion, were executed during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u67	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u68	I repeat: 90 % of what is being executed occurred during this legislature, which shows to whom the momentum of Portugal 2020 is due. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u69	For the closure of this debate, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor by the CDS-PP. Do the favor, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u70	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, we realize that for the Government and for the Socialist Party the low implementation of the Community framework is not a problem, that in Portugal it is all right with the Community funds, that there is no question, that we are the champions of implementation. Mr Minister, I challenge you to leave this room and go to the Real Country: go to an exporting company which has now applied for Community funds; go to a vocational training centre that needs to receive Community funds for its action; go to a social institution that needs Community investment to carry out its action. They all tell you the same thing: that the funds are late, that since 2016 they know nothing, that they have to go to the bank to finance themselves, because Community money is not enough. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u71	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u72	Mr. Minister, go visit a farmer who delivered a farm project in 2016. Two years have passed and so far there is no answer. You are going to talk to these Portuguese people, who really execute the Community funds, not you, not the Socialist Party's bench, nor am I. What does the Government have to do to ensure that Community funds are implemented? It must ensure that applications are approved, ensure that national participation, the necessary public investment is there! And neither are you able to do that! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u73	Let's go to the numbers. What does Banco de Portugal say? The Banco de Portugal says very clearly that Portugal has never been so late in implementing Community funds as it is at present.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u74	Banco de Portugal can't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u75	The European Commission also tells us exactly the same thing, as well as the Agency for Development and Cohesion!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u76	The European Commission says this to most countries of the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u77	Mr Minister, at the end of 2018, the implementation rate for Portugal 2020 was 29 %. If we remove the size of agriculture, which, as you know, did not count for the full implementation of the QREN in 2011 the implementation of the Community funds, two years from the end of the programme, was 39 % and, in 2018, two years from the end of the Community framework, it is 29 % if we compare what is comparable. Are you happy and content with this? Oh, my God! I'm not, my bench isn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u78	He won't even be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u79	We are much more demanding, not on behalf of our Members, but on behalf of the Portuguese people we represent! [[CDS-PP applause.]] That is why, Mr Minister, for us, it is very serious what is happening with the implementation of this Community framework, but it is also serious what is happening with the negotiation of the next Community framework. And the Minister did not refer today to this matter, which is a very serious matter. The Minister said this week, in Parliamentary committee, that the negotiation is — I quote — « in the freezer». This is, at the moment, the negotiation is halted. Mr Minister, we know the drama for farmers, entrepreneurs, institutions if we may not be able to approve the next framework at the end of this framework. If there is a discontinuity between Community frameworks—and, at the moment, by his words, if the negotiation is 'in the freezer', there is this risk', it was crucial that the Government should come here to tell us what contingency plan it is preparing, what the Government is preparing for if there is such discontinuity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u80	It is not enough that you are not implementing the Community framework. Mr. Minister does not mention what will be the seizure in his Ministry and in the Ministries implementing Community frameworks for 2019. Very likely, we will arrive at the end of 2019 without having the ability to recover the execution. The Minister does not tell us what he is thinking of the next Community framework if there is discontinuity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u81	The fact is that the government does not use Community funds that would be essential to our economy, not low taxes, which would be very important if we could stimulate economic growth, does not use any of the mechanisms at its disposal to stimulate the economy. What is the consequence of all this? This is what we are seeing: the economic situation is slowing down at a dangerous speed, and you are not at least concerned about this and its size. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, allow me, in the remaining 30 seconds, to respond to the Left Block Member, who raised a question on the movement of Portuguese and companies in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u82	Portages!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u83	I cannot but ask the Left Block a very simple question like this: we know that in Portugal 80 % of the vehicles circulating on these motorways are diesel vehicles and we know that the ISP (tax on oil and energy products) plus the carbon rate is currently severely penalizing these same Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u84	The effect of the tolls is worse! Finish the tolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u85	We also know that in 2016, in 2017 and 2018 there were proposals from the CDS to force the government to comply with the word it had given of neutrality in the increase of the ISP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u86	There was also a left block proposal to end the tolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u87	We do know that in the State budget for this year, voted a long time ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u88	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u89	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying in the State Budget for this year, voted in this Assembly for a few months ago, a proposal from the CDS was submitted to eliminate this overtax of the ISP. How did the Left Block, which is so worried about mobility inside, voted? He voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u90	That's right! [[Protests by BE Heitor de Sousa Member.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u91	And if, at the moment, the Portuguese are paying more ISPs, this is due to you, Mr, to your bench, as well as to the benches that support the government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u92	We have reached the end of the current debate required by the CDS-PP on the application of Community funds. We now move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of Bill Nos 178 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Other Code of the Tax on the Income of Collective Persons in the Field of Impairments of Credit Institutions and Other Financial Institutions and 180 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amendment of various tax codes and of the Bill No 1181 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the equity benefit on deferred tax assets covered by the special scheme approved by Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August. To open the debate, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today presents to the Assembly of the Republic two legislative initiatives in the tax area, a proposal for a bill amending the IRC Code on the impartiality of credit institutions and other financial institutions and another bill with amendments to different tax codes. throughout this legislation, we define fiscal stability as an important value to be preserved, because fiscal stability gives predictability to families and businesses. in a tax system, it is as important to distribute tax effort as the degree of confidence of its medium- and long-term framework. In addition to fiscal stability, we have also preferred simplifying, in particular procedural simplification, throughout this legislature, which facilitates the fulfilment of tax obligations. We are very clear that there is a great effort that we must continue to make to reduce the complexity of our tax system and that this is a very relevant factor for greater fiscal justice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposed law to amend the IRC Code on the impartiality of credit institutions and other financial institutions is an imperative of predictability as to the tax framework of this reality and an opportunity to simplify it. It is an imperative of predictability because, since 2015, we have faced a situation of regulatory precariousness, since, in 2015, according to new rules of international accounting standardization, through the Banco de Portugal's notice, the notice No 3 / 95 ( also the Banco de Portugal ) has been repealed, and since that time the tax framework for the inequalities of financial institutions and credit has been regulated in a precarious way, each year, through the adoption of a regulatory decree. This was the case in 2016, 2017 and 2018. We must therefore establish the definitive framework for this reality. This is also an opportunity for simplification, because the bill before us has a clear purpose: to end the gap between fiscal and accounting rules. We thus follow the tendency to converge taxation and accounting. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is to simplify. The proposed law now put forward, by bringing the tax system closer to credit default losses to its accounting rules, will prevent new assets from being created by deferred tax on credit inequalities in the future. thus, the system becomes simpler and thus also more transparent. The proposal we are presenting provides that the transition to a system for the approximation of fiscal and accounting rules will become compulsory in 2024. On the one hand, taxpayers are given a fair period of adaptation and preparation of the additional reporting duties that this new solution requires. On the other hand, the institutions that are prepared to migrate to this new regime are allowed to do so now. We believe, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this bill effectively fulfils the objectives of predictability and simplification of the tax system and already in 2019 establishes a solution of basic fiscal justice as from 2024, accepting in taxation what is already accepted in accounting and resulting from the prudential and supervisory framework. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also presenting amendments to the various fiscal diplomas which are currently before the Assembly of the Republic and which consist of simplification mechanisms, measures to combat fraud and tax evasion, harmonisation with Community diplomas, as well as technical corrections. I would like to highlight, for its particular importance, the following: firstly, the introduction of a five-day delay between the date of delivery of the VAT declaration and the time limit for payment of the tax; secondly, in the framework of the seal tax settlement system, the obligation of corrections to be presented through replacement declarations, as is the case in the remaining taxes; and, lastly, the recognition of the fair impediment to certified accountants, specifying cases in which it may justify their failure to fulfil the tax declaration obligations of taxpayers in their customer portfolios. It is an important step and to establish justice for these professionals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying that predictability in the fiscal framework and the simplification of the tax system are two fundamental premises which, together with a balanced distribution of the tax effort, constitute the key to a system with true fiscal justice. These are the principles that lead us to bring about the legislative initiatives that are currently under discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u94	To present the project of the Block of Left and to intervene in the debate, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u95	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The Government has proposed an approximation of the accounting rules to the tax rules so that all accounting inequalities begin to count at the time of its registration for the clearance of taxable profit. We see no fundamental problem with this measure, although we want to hear the opinion of the AT (Tributary Authority ) on it. Our problem is another, our problem is that this law changes the rules for the future, but it does not solve a problem of the past, a problem that has gone unnoticed, but which is consistent with a direct and never taken up by the bank of EUR 3800 million. And I will explain: until 2014, even though banks could record all their losses in accounting, these losses were only gradually accepted for tax purposes — clearance of taxable profits. This means that in the years of the crisis, the banks were registering billions of accounting losses that were not fully reflected in tax damage, which was already negative at that time. In other words, banks were not paying IRC because they had no profits, but they were accumulating rights to deduct losses on future IRC. These rights — called deferred tax assets — which were no longer than the right not to pay IRC in the future, were to be accounted for in the capital of banks. In 2014, the new capital rules established that these AIDs (deferred tax assets) could not count to capital. Why? Because it is no use to accumulate deductions to future taxes unless profits are expected in the near future in the legal period to deduct such taxes. What the PSD/CDS government has done was solve this problem to banks and transform these future deduction rights into real rights over the state so that they could become capital. And they did it in three ways. Rule 1 : Undeduced inequalities can now be deducted forever, at any time, from the choice of banks — banks have not paid a hundred IRCs during the crisis, but the damage they have caused, at that time, can be permanently eliminated for banks. Rule 2 : If banks do not have profits, they can ask for this money back to the state, banks will not pay a hundred IRCs but can claim the state to return the IRCs they have never paid. Rule 3 : If the banks fail, the State is called upon to enter with all this money into the capital of the banks. After these amendments, these deferred tax assets have become the capital of the banks and to count on their ratios and, at the moment, there are EUR 3800 million of this kind of magical assets that were fictionally generated during the crisis. Let me be clearer: the former government gave banks EUR 3800 million in two forms: future taxes that will never be paid or direct injections at the request of banks. And the banks are using that gift to support their capital ratios. It is a form of capitalisation of the bank, which was decisive, for example, for the BCP, which says that it never used state money, which is a lie, because the BCP used EUR 1000 million and thus received the right not to pay IRC for the next 10, 15, 20 years, until it ran out of the stock of AID 1000 million, and it is a State aid, the European Commission noted that this scheme was a State aid when it determined its suspension. Portugal suspended this regime in 2016, as well as Italy and Spain, but by eliminating the possibility of creating more of these magical assets the government did not solve the stock problem that was already there and that was EUR 3800 million. What the Block proposes is a way of dealing with this stock, which has been recommended by the European Commission and adopted in Italy and Spain. The stock remains in such a way as not to jeopardise the capital of the banks, but it is ensured that the State receives a remuneration for it. We therefore created a rate of 1, 5 % on the existing stock of deferred tax assets, which would yield an estimated revenue of approximately EUR 50 million per year. This rate does not compensate for the risk or the taxes lost in the future, but it is a form of State remuneration for the capital that the State is injecting into these banks. It is the minimum that can be demanded from a bank which now happily returns to profits after all the material damage it has caused and will still cause to the public accounts. What we propose is that a minimum of decency be introduced to the system of absolute exception and privilege in which the banks live. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u96	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In August 2014, the former Government, PSD / CDS, created a special scheme for deferred tax assets. All stock of deferred tax assets ( DTAs) at that time was covered by this new scheme, i.e. all existing DTAs were converted into the so-called eligible DTAs. New eligible DTAs have been added to these as long as the special scheme has been in force. It is almost EUR 4 billion that banks can deduct from their taxes at any future time or simply claim to the State in the years when they have suffered damage. It is false the idea that the eligible DTAs in the bank's possession correspond to an over-tax payment in the past, so its future discount would correspond to a mere statement of account. In reality, ADDs correspond to inequalities that were recorded in years of damage and therefore do not correspond to any tax paid and their future discount corresponds to a charge to the State. As the PCP denounced at the time, the creation of DTAs eligible by the previous government, PSD / CDS, corresponded to a bank aid, plus a bank aid using public money! It is reported that in DTA, EUR 160 million was reimbursed in 2017 and EUR 100 million in 2018, which was needed for the replacement of rights and incomes, which was needed for public investment; it was necessary to respond to public services problems! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, in the new phase of national political life, with the contribution of the CFP, a law has been adopted which has defined the temporal scope of application of the special scheme applicable to deferred tax assets, establishing that it does not apply to DTAs created from 1 January 2016. This was a positive but insufficient step in the perspective of the CFP. Inadequate because it did not touch the eligible ADRs, maintaining the possibility that they could be deducted or claimed at any future time. Today, the Government is debating a proposal for a law which, by bringing closer to the tax system applicable to losses due to impartiality to the accounting and regulatory rules applicable to the bank, does not allow for new DTAs to be formed with reference to new losses due to impartiality. This is also a positive step, but it has aspects that raise reservations for us. First of all, the eligible DTAs, created under the law of the former Government, PSD / CDS, continue to be affected, which will translate, as we have already pointed out, into a heavy burden on public safes. Secondly, it provides for a transitional period of five years until all banking institutions are covered by the new scheme, which will allow the bank to drain the accumulated stock of DTA, also with which they should be analysed in the specialty debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u98	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u99	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Deferred tax assets are not magical assets, they arise because the current IRC Code does not allow credit institutions to recognise fiscally all the inequalities they account for. Therefore, Portuguese legislation requires advance tax payments which can only be recovered later. The rational behind this legislation is to avoid an emboldening of impartiality, but in fact puts Portuguese companies and financial institutions in a position of inequality in the face of their European counterparts. Thus, in order to restore a certain parity between these companies, the previous government created a balanced scheme to deal with these assets by deferred taxes. In 2017, however, the PSD drew up a proposal made by the PS which, in fact, represented a real tax ruling to the bank through changes to the treatment of these assets, in particular allowing them to be deductible to profits within a much longer period than previously provided for. But in the Government proposal that we are debating today, it seems to us that the prospect of eliminating in the long term the difference between the tax and accounting treatment that stems from the creation of these assets is positive. For the PSD, this is a good principle and we note that it is possible to implement it only now, because, after several years of changes in supervision and finally some stabilization, also in international accounting rules, we have the stability and security of the rules that are applied to inequalities in financial institutions and that allow today to have a perspective to finally resolve this issue of deferred tax assets. However, the proposal that the Government brings to us today does not cease to raise doubts and questions, especially with regard to the regime applicable until 2018 and the transitional regime between 2019 and 2024. In particular, Mr Secretary of State, it is important to make an analysis of the tax revenue between the schemes he proposes and alternative regimes in the coming years, and to understand what will be the impact on public accounts. For us, this is fundamental. Another issue that, for us, is also very important is to ensure a balance of treatment for taxpayers between the stock of deferred tax assets generated before 2019 and the stock that will be formed after 2019. It is implicit, but it was important to confirm that, in the proposal for a law, the rules on past stock remain the same for the assets that are guaranteed by the State, to the rules that have been laid down in the 2014 regime. The scheme introduced by the former Government seeks to mitigate the effects of the double penalty that exists for these assets, whether by anticipation of the payment of IRC, either by deduction to own funds for capital ratio calculations, with two elements: on the one hand, by giving a guarantee of payment and allowing such assets not to be deducted from own funds for capital ratios and, on the other hand, by allowing time to be used. However, the scheme has a disincentive to the use of these assets, including a maximum profit-percentage utilisation limit and a 110 % premium capital dilution. I would like the Government to confirm to us that this regime will be maintained and that it will also confirm that it is the most appropriate thing to mitigate this double penalty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u100	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u101	Do you ask for the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u102	Mr President, I wanted to write to Mrs Mariana Mortágua to make a request for clarification to the PSD, but I did not realize that there would be a second intervention, also from the PSD. We can therefore make this inscription after this second intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u103	All right, Mr, that's how it is combined. Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the appropriate time to denounce the principles, practice and fiscal policy of this government and this majority. The Socialist Secretary-General said in April 2015 : « Tax law has been changed permanently and we have to stabilize it, promoting only in the first year of the legislature, and lasting until the first year of the next legislature, the changes that must exist ». The Government Program of this majority says: "The lives of people and the success of business projects depend on some stability and predictability. It is not possible to plan and schedule life projects and make decisions concerning personal and business investments without a minimally stable tax framework to ensure that a good decision, taken in a certain fiscal context, does not turn into a bad decision because this context has changed." These were supposed to be the principles, but the practice is, in everything, contrary. For example, for three of the main taxes, I remember that in municipal property tax ( IMI ), we are now going to 9. the change in income tax for natural persons ( IRS ), we will go to 10. the change and in the income tax of legal persons ( IRC ), this will be 12. the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on average, every 3 or 4 months, change the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u106	It is even seen that it is consistent with the ideas and principles of the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party or the Prime Minister of this Government. What did the PS Secretary-General say in April 2015 and what does the Government Programme say? I quote again: « The principle of fiscal stability is essential for citizens to understand the functioning of the legislative framework and for companies to be able to plan their costs ». I also quote again the Government's programme: « fair tax treatment implies stability and predictability in tax rules, so that people and businesses can have confidence to make decisions ». But we have 12 amendments to the IRC, 10 amendments to the IRS and 9 amendments to the IMI, i.e. only 3 of the 14 diplomas amended by this initiative. This is the stability and fiscal predictability of this government and this majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u107	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u108	If, with regard to the lack of principles and bad practices, the situation is serious, with regard to content, the results can supplant the worst forecasts. The results are always new tax burden records, they are called « taxes », « additional » or « contributions ». It has always been growing : in 2016, 34, 1 % tax burden, in 2017, 34, 4 % tax burden, and in 2018, the forecast is 35, 4 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). The content of this proposal also closes the lack of transparency and respect by the Assembly of the Republic and the Portuguese. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, proposals for legislation should be accompanied by studies, documents and opinions which have substantiated them. Where are you, Mr. Secretary of State? The government is not presenting them! In the explanatory statement, the information it provides is that it intends to introduce improvements in the operationalization of tax administration services. These are the reasons for the bill, but are the changes to transfer prices what they want and what result? Is it the working group set up by the Secretary of State under the Tax Authority? And where is the final report? With regard to data interconnections, where are the opinions of the National Data Protection Commission? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, agreeing at all with the fair impediment of certified accountants, it is clear that there is no better regulation. In conclusion, the lack of principles, bad practices and tax abuse are the marks of this majority at the end of the legislature. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u109	A request for clarification by the Left Block is followed with regard to the intervention of the PSD. You have the floor, to this end, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u110	Mr President, Mrs Inês Domingos, called the regime that the PSD created « a balanced regime ». The « balanced regime » was to collect in EUR 3800 million, corresponding to the entire stock of DTA (deferred tax assets) that existed, which were theoretical deductions that could never be used, under the current tax law, and would make them eternal, a real right under the State. Mrs Deputy has a loss which deducts tax, pays no taxes and, after five years, she has asked the State to return the tax which she has never paid to the State. If this isn't magic, then I don't know what it is! It seems to me that the banks receive a tax that they have never paid. The ‘balanced regime’ of the PSD and CDS gave the bank the right not to pay 3800 million future IRCs. It's 1000 million BCP! Tell me how many years, how many decades the BCP will pass without paying IRC! under this « balanced regime », the New Bank has already asked for a secret injection of money to the State, which nobody talks about, because nobody talks about the fact that the State has injected 154 million into the New Bank, on account of deferred tax assets, for taxes that have never been paid, and many of them have been transferred from BES. We can even understand that this regime was created at a time of bank distress, when it was necessary to help the capital of the banks. But let's assume what's been done! And what was done was a bank capitalization at the expense of unpaid taxes in the future. My question is this: if it is a 'balanced regime' why does the European Commission say that it is State aid? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u111	I think Mrs Mariana Mortágua's question is addressed to Mrs Inês Domingos, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u112	We have nothing to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u113	But it is a request for clarification, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u114	We have nothing to say, Mr President. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u115	Don't you want any clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u116	Mr President, with all due respect, this was an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u117	It was a request for clarification! If you don't want to answer, it's something else...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u118	Mrs Inês Domingos finished her speech and Mrs Mariana Mortágua made an intervention. The PSD will speak again in this debate and will certainly deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u119	Isn't there a question? Oh, my God! There's a question and there's an answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u120	They do the same thing the Prime Minister did yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u121	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares was careful to say that Mrs Mariana Mortágua had a request for clarification regarding the first intervention of the PSD, but, as two interventions followed, she left the request for clarification for the end of the second intervention. That's what everyone heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u122	Mr President, I realized that the Left Block was registered after the intervention to request clarifications and the PSD will respond to all matters during this debate. There's no problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u123	Sir, there is a problem, because there is a Rules of Procedure! It will then remain until the PSD's response to this request for clarification of the Left Block is a non-response and the PSD will later talk about what it understands. That's it, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u124	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u125	Please, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u126	Mr. President, I want you to know what's going on. The Left Block Parliamentary Group asked a question regarding a PSD intervention. It was a question, a request for clarification, which was the regimental figure we used, not an intervention. The PSD is refusing to respond to the Left Block. Be well registered in Ata this situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u127	Sir, that's exactly what I said, I just said. So let's move on. The next item is Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u128	It's a shame! Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u129	This is your democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u130	Mr President, before addressing the question which motivates my intervention on the taxation of financial matters, I would like to refer to Mr Cristovão Crespo's intervention and, according to his own view, to the lack of principles guiding these proposals. I would like to say that when the Government submits a proposal amending the VAT Code, delaying the payment deadline in five days, or allowing, with that amendment, that VAT is capable of operating the direct debit, which is a mechanism that greatly facilitates the lives of taxpayers, which is not exactly what we think about when we think about tax instability. This develops a principle which, fortunately, has guided this government and which had been interrupted by the previous government, which is the principle that the Public Administration should develop programmes that facilitate people's lives. We salute that there is another measure in this regard! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As was the case in the debate around the so-called « DTA », it is not possible to understand the proposal presented by the Government without understanding the context. What we have in IRC today is a bank tax system that comes from the 1990s and adapted to accounting practices of the 1990s. over the years, and expressly in this decade, there has been a gap between the rules, which means that, often, there is a record of losses or inequalities that is imposed by regulatory rules to the bank, but then the tax law does not recognize the existence of these losses or inequalities as tax costs. That is where this figure comes from which it is often called 'deferred tax assets', but which really should be called 'deferred tax assets', because what is deferred is the asset, is not the tax. But, finally, we call it « DTA », which is the English designation generally used. These DTAs, according to the accounting rules applicable today, are downgraded to the capital ratios of banks. This was the reason for a legislative intervention in 2014 which created such eligible DTAs, solution, indeed, very questionable. In 2016, I had the opportunity to intervene in this matter when the Government proposed that this scheme cease to generate new eligible DTAs, maintaining the stock of the past. The proposal for a law at that time did not, however, solve the problem that this proposal now aims to solve, which is the very creation of new DTAs, whether or not they are eligible, regardless of their inconformity. It seems to me to welcome the principle underlying the Government's proposed law that there is harmonisation between the accounting system, which stems from the requirement of public entities, i.e. the Banco de Portugal, and the tax regime, because we should not have public rules which, on the one hand, require banks to make certain records and, on the other hand, do not recognize the effectiveness of these registers when made by the banks. It seems prudent to us to see the government's solution, it seems prudent to us that some losses have been excluded from the application of this scheme in impartiality — those relating to banks' partners, bank managers and bank participants — seem prudent to us to be the transitional period that has been introduced. However, this is a subject which, in addition to great sensitivity, has a huge technicality, whose better understanding requires an in-depth debate. in this sense, the Socialist Party recently submitted a request, with the Government's announcement, in the sense of the discharge to its committee, without a vote, of this bill. I would also like to refer to the draft law of the Left Block, with the proposal on the creation of a capital benefit on the stock of DTA. I must say that if this proposal had been submitted and discussed in 2014, it would find this regime preferable to the regime created in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u131	In 2016!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u132	In other words, the Italian or Spanish solution is, in a way, preferable to Portuguese. I have no idea, even because, at the time, I did not follow the process, if that would have been possible at that time, in terms of compatibility with European rules, since we were not the first to do so. But we no longer have this regime in force — we are no longer in 2014 —, in 2016 it stopped entering new assets in this stock and there is an advantage, I believe, in that there is legal stability in the situations that are constituted. In fact, I must say that it is also not entirely true that there is no penalty for the use of DTAs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u133	It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u134	As Mrs Mariana Mortágua knows, the use of DTAs involves a process that could be described as a kind of forced nationalization from the capital of the banks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u135	It's obvious! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u136	Where is she?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u137	... with a 10 % increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u138	Has the state used? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u139	I must tell you that I don't even think it's a good solution, i.e., I don't think the state should be in the business of partial nationalizations and that's why I don't like the 2014 solution. Since the creation of new eligible DTAs is closed, it is the opinion of this parliamentary group that it is worth preserving the stability of the legal regime that currently exists and that it is not worth intervening again on it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u140	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate, which we are doing today, is understandable only in the light of the moment at which we are now, which is not going to be the end of the legislature but already the end of the legislative session, because we are here discussing matters that have very little, so that we do not say that they have nothing in common. The only common trait to be seen is that they are all tax matters. But we are talking about very vast tax matter, which crosses several codes and has to do with radically different passive subjects. It is therefore quite difficult to have a common position on the diplomas being discussed and even on the various subjects that are included at least one of the diplomas. I think this method, although I understand it was the opportunity that the government had to get all these schedules, helps very little to clarify...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u142	It's all up the hill!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u143	...and, above all, to deepen the discussions we are having here. It is that we are discussing things as diverse as assets on deferred taxes from banks and just preventing certified accounting technicians, which is, in fact, a subject that we have already had the opportunity to discuss many times and which has the support of the CDS. They're radically diverse things, and I think it's worth trying to get around. First of all, I am referring to the Proposal for a Law No 180 / XIII / 4. a, amending several tax diplomas. As I have already said, she comes to meet a claim from certified accountants, which is a fair claim, and which is as simple as this: when there is a fair impediment, when there is an emergency, when there is a circumstance that prevents them from meeting a deadline, that this can be recognised and translated into a delay of the deadline for fulfilling the obligations of their clients. This is fair, it is obvious and, indeed, it already exists for other professions. I would, however, like to see the Government clarify whether other claims, which were also made by certified accountants, including that of the review of the entire fiscal calendar, and it was announced that it was being made — so that there would not be such a set of obligations that would prevent the normal procedure in these professions — are included in this legislation or were later, for the calendars. Mr Secretary of State, I think that later, in the specialty, we will have to see each of these amendments. It is that if in some cases they can be in the sense of simplifying the lives of taxpayers, and of course they will have our support, when I see expressions as « operationalization of AT services », I have some fear that the said operationalization is to simplify the tax administration rather than the life of taxpayers. Therefore, these obligations and these changes must be viewed case by case, carefully, in the specialty, because they are completely distinct, completely diverse and at no time is explicit to which each of them concerns. Second, in relation to the issue of deferred tax assets, most known by DTA, the previous scheme, created in 2014, had as its main objective that the Portuguese banks were not in a situation of low competitiveness or inequality in relation to foreign banks. This was the main objective of this legislation. The Portuguese regime was, in fact, to remember, more rigorous, i.e., more unfavourable to banks than other regimes that existed in other countries. I would also like to recall that, when it is said, as I hear here, that there is a nearly automatic right of conversion of these assets by deferred tax credits, there is a quite dissuasive regime for the conversion of these assets into credits, because, when they are converted into tax credits, the State is entitled to become a shareholder of the banks...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u144	The right that the state has not used so far!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u145	... and, in turn, tax credits require the establishment of a reserve of 110 %, which can be converted into shares, with the corresponding increase in capital, with a loss of value to the shareholders of the banks, which, of course, is a dissuasive regime. I think it might be good if, in this debate, it would be clear whether any of these deferred tax assets were in fact already converted into tax credit and whether the State is currently the shareholder of these banks. I think that should be clear from this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u146	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I wanted, essentially, to focus on Bill No 180 / XIII / 4. a, which the Government today has taken into account in this House. It was precisely beginning with a comment on the position of the Social Democratic Party on the set of suggestions, amendments and proposals presented in this bill. Simplification, optimization, in the sense of better justice and fiscal equity, are matters that are not recognized by the PSD, i.e. the PSD would prefer that we have an immobilistic attitude, that we have done everything to do, in tax terms, in the first year of the mandate and would prefer that we were not able to come, when necessary, in order to achieve any stability — as stated from the programme point of view, but, essentially, expressed in terms of the so-called fiscal stability — to raise taxes. But here we are not talking about aggravating taxes, we are talking about simplification in particular. So we realize that the Social Democratic Party is against the simplification of taxes, it is against the facilitation of the lives of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u148	It's nothing like that! The proposal only says that it is to make life easier for the Tax Authority!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u149	It is the record with which we are here and we all know what the PSD thinks about the relationship between the Tax Authority and taxpayers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u150	With regard to this diploma, it is obviously an optimization of fiscal justice, because these are essentially the objectives that are going to be pursued, with the amendment of various tax diplomas which, as has already been said, will certainly deserve careful consideration in the discussion in the field of specialty, in relation to each of the specific taxes and the measures that are presented in particular. It is in question a set of about 14 diplomas, but in this work, where the Socialist Party is fully available, we will have the opportunity to optimize and find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u151	In IRC, the law changes from 3 to 3 months!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u152	Essentially, what do we have here? We have the introduction of improvements in the operationalization of tax administration services and some adjustments to rules relating to the taxpayer's reporting obligation. As has also been mentioned, an important fact is the fair resolution of a problem that has long been raised, which is precisely the amendment of the Statute of the Order of Certified Accountants, creating the mechanism of fair impediment and allowing, as in other professions, that these professionals are also in a position to, in situations specified as 'just impediment', be able to alter the deadlines for the fulfilment of obligations. It has also been mentioned here, and it will never be too much stressed, the extension of the deadline for VAT payment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u153	And why didn't they do it at the beginning of the legislature? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u154	... that this five-day delay will allow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u155	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u156	I will now finish, Mr President. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is underlying in this proposal is essentially predictability, stability and facilitation, and not otherwise, as referred to by the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u157	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Under the Proposal for a Law No 180 / XIII / 4. a, the government proposes a set of amendments to various tax codes which do not, on our part, raise major problems. This does not prevent the fact that, in the field of specialty, there can be no correctness to do in the various codes that are changed. There is, in this bill, one thing that we must not fail to highlight: it is finally enshrined in the regime of fair restraint for certified accountants. We cannot but highlight the creation of this regime because, as the Secretary of State knows, the programmatic standard in the State Budget for 2019 is largely the result of the CFP initiative, which insisted that the right impediment should be expressed in the proposed State Budget for 2019, which came to be approved. And now our proposal has not only been adopted unanimously, because the CDS was the only party that abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u159	We had a better measure, that you fell!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u160	It is another measure which has the mark of the CFP and which will represent a lot in the lives of the more than 72,000 certified accountants in this country. So far, there has been no situation that would justify, before the tax administration and justice, a delay in the delivery of a tax obligation. The accounting officer could have a serious accident leading to hospitalization, he could die from a close relative, he could have a child, and none of these situations were enough to justify a delay in the delivery of a tax declaration obligation. If any of these reasons for force majeure happen to an accountant in the days before any time is approaching, the accountant could see himself with arms with hundreds of euros in fines, counter-orders and even with criminal responsibility. With the regime of the right impediment, it is finally recognized that the accounting officer may have situations of manifest force greater than they rightly prevent him from fulfilling the obligations within the time limit. There is also recognition of the right prolonged impediment, for parental leave or for prolonged illness. With this scheme, injustice ends, permanent insecurity for more than 72 000 accountants, many of them individual entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and also workers on behalf of others. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u161	Also in this regime of fair impediment, the CFP will continue to intervene, as a specialist, in order to improve the regime proposed by the Government, so that it is as fair as possible. There are several aspects that can be improved and, of course, that of its entry into force. The road has been long, so unless there is any plausible reason we do not know, it is not justified to delay the entry into force of this measure by 2020, because the accountants have waited for many years. It is therefore good to be able to see the regime of the just impediment enshrined as soon as possible, and this situation resolved once and for all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u162	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am just reminded that the CFP is a little forgotten, but it is a rather convenient forgetfulness — that what was at stake in the State budget was a legislative authorization. The CDS, during the debate of the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u164	Post-traumatic stress of the State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u165	... made a proposal for such legislative authorization or recommendation to have a shorter deadline, so that it would be made more quickly. This proposal from the CDS has been plummeted, in fact, the CFP should remember that. That is why the CDS abstained, because it wanted this to be done more quickly, which the PCP does not know, because we are not discussing this today, for the first time, we have already discussed this and other demands from certified accountants several times. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the PCP has the habit of making politics a kind of contest to see who the father or mother of the idea was.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u166	There is no doubt that it was the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u167	The CDS is here to help people and do what is best for Portugal. What I see with regret is the inability to discuss this subject with some intellectual honesty, because the PCP has always defended this, just as the CDS has always defended this. Therefore, my intervention was only in the sense of restoring the truth. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u168	Welcome, but late!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u169	Mr António Leitão Amaro of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u170	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: With regard to the scheme for deferred tax assets, I would like to say that the creation of a rule for the future, which ends with the divergence in tax and accounting treatment, is a good decision. The difference was justified in the past, since there was no control over the process of formation of impartiality. This decision could be used as a way to manipulate the result for tax purposes. Since the rules on the formation of inequalities have changed, being much more demanding, we have a security that allows us to equate the regimes and therefore goes well with the government when it proposes the equalization of the regimes for the future. Now, I must say—and I also reply to the Left Block—that, yes, we have doubts about the fairness of maintaining a different regime for the past and even, especially, a new period in which DTA is generated, between 2019 and 2023, this one, yes, without any counterpart. Mr Secretary of State, the option for a transitional period at the moment must be considered, in the field of expertise, and the PSD will work for it, as regards the existence of a counterpart for this most beneficial regime. Regarding the past, in particular that eligible DTA regime created in 2014, I must recall that when this House, in 2016, unanimously ended with this regime, no party, then, made any proposal to change the system of penalties to which banks are subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u171	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u172	None! Why? Because everyone realized that there was already a penalty regime. The Left Block has filled its chest to say "it's trying to give more money to the banks. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs Mariana Mortágua, you support the government and it is part of a majority who has already injected more than EUR 8 billion into the banks in this legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u173	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u174	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u175	I will finish, Mr. President. So the question we have to ask is the following: does the Left Block want to exchange this new counterparty that creates, which is a kind of price rate, by eliminating the counterpart that exists, which is the penalty for receiving old DTAs being lost, and there is a dilution of the capital? Is that what you want to do?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u176	Mr President, you have far exceeded your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u177	I shall end, Mr President, in order to respond to your call for a full response to the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u178	It was at the right time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u179	The full answer must be given within time. Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u180	Of course, Mr. President. I think we should consider the DTA regime of the past and the one that will be generated now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u181	You must conclude, Mr President, because otherwise I will have to speak to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u182	... bringing equity. For our part, in the discussion on the speciality, we will contribute to measures to this end. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u183	There are deferred assets and deferred answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u184	You have the floor to speak by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking only to answer a few questions that have been raised. Mr. Rocha Andrade says that this heritage benefit was created in Spain and Italy in 2014. That's not true! It was created in 2016 when the regime was suspended. In the precise case of Italy, it was created applying only to the past stock, and that stock ended because the regime was suspended. Another issue to be mentioned is that it is not by chance that the European Commission says that this scheme is State aid, it is because it is indeed State aid! Whether banks ask for money back or not, this right not to pay future taxes is in the capital. The State is contributing to the capital of the banks, taking the risk. And, therefore, what is proposed is simply that the State be compensated for the risk it is taking. It is not a tax on the bank, for this there are the taxes itself, it is a remuneration for the risk assumed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u186	You have already exceeded the time your parliamentary group had.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u187	Finally, Mr President, there is a counterparty if the bank asks for the refund of the money, but the rules for State participation in the capital of the banks are bad for the State. It's a poisoned gift!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u188	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u189	Still, and I finish, these are few cases. In most cases, banks do not ask for money back, they simply do not pay taxes. And nothing has been done about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u190	But they're not gonna do anything either!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u191	And we think it's wrong that you look at the side while you create 3800 million bank rights not paying taxes in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u192	You have the floor to close this debate, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that this morning's debate on the bill to discipline deferred tax assets was a serious debate. And it was a serious debate, because the proposal that the Government brought here is a safe one. It is a proposal that aims to solve a problem that exists. And the problem that exists at the moment is that there is no fiscal framework to deal with the bank's accounting inequalities. This is the problem that exists! What we propose as a solution to the problem, and which is followed by everyone, is that the rules of taxation can follow the accounting rules, because, being accounting the basis of taxation, this makes sense. And it makes sense, too, because, as already mentioned here, in this debate, the way in which the inequalities are constituted has an additional supervision by Banco de Portugal, which gives us greater security to recognise them later in taxation. I would therefore like to stress the importance of consensus on the solution of a complex issue and of finding a safe and robust solution. This solution is then careful not to ignore the situation that exists. And the situation that exists is that over the last few years we have always applied the same rules, which were the rules of the tax treatment resulting from the Banco de Portugal's Notice No 3 / 95. What we are doing here, within the framework of stability — and stability in the sense of predictability that has to be given to taxpayers — is to maintain this system of recognition of impartiality at the level of taxation, which has always existed, and which will require the Tax Authority to have two accounts in parallel and that taxpayers also have new reporting obligations in relation to one and the other reality. What we do in the five-year adaptation period, which, I repeat, is not a transitional period, is a period of adaptation, is that any bank institution that already wants to migrate to this scheme could migrate, but must migrate within five years. However, we are giving five years, because there is a huge complexity of adapting these reporting systems by banking institutions. I am convinced that, in the field of expertise, we can have this discussion with greater depth, and it is well advised, because it is very important, but I would point out from now on that this consensus of all is very positive about the final solution. Mrs. Members, I also think it is important for this debate and for the good clarification of public opinion that we are aware that the system of deferred tax assets protected, which exists today, whether you like it or not, is a very particular regime regarding its use, because if such use is made through tax credit, a reserve of capital must be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u194	Are taxes paid?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u195	After that, the State has conversion rights by 110 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u196	Did you activate them?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u197	And these purchasing power rights are activated within 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u198	Did you activate them?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u199	For the period of 10 years, it is mandatory that a deposit be made by shareholders, which acts as a collateral...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u200	Did you activate them?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u201	... for this purchasing power right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u202	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u203	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is always important to tell what the whole story is like. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, expressing my perplexity at the fact that today the whole right will show hesitation in the face of a diploma which has several rules for simplifying procedures, always distrusting the Tax Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u204	I just asked questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, whenever you put the tax issue on the agenda, particularly on tax charges, let me tell you that if the demagogy paid taxes, you are the rapporteur. Members on the right would all be registered in the unit of large contributors. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members can at the same time say that there is the greatest tax burden ever,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u206	And there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u207	...voting against IRS decline, voting against VAT reductions...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u208	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u209	... and voting against the end of the CFP (special payment on account ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u210	Mr. Secretary of State, you have already exceeded your time, so I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u211	In tax matters, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was good that the demagogy paid taxes, because we would be much better in terms of revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u213	Mrs. Members, having concluded this debate, we will generally consider the Proposal for a Law No 185 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Sets out the forms of application of the health and safety system at work provided for in the Labour Code and supplementary legislation to the bodies and services of the Public Administration. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs. Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The time for discussion of the bill establishing ways of applying the safety and health system at work to the organs and services of the Public Administration is also the time to remember that this is not an unfair measure. It is part of the three policy axes that the Government has defined for the Public Administration that it is important to remember: the exploitation of workers, the improvement of working conditions and the modernisation of public management. Developing healthy and productive work environments is a legal, managerial and ethical obligation of any employer, including the highest national employer, the State. However, in the public administrations sector, existing legislation does not yet comply with European legislation on this subject. This circumstance reinforces the need for a strategic commitment to safety and health at work, for the Public Administration, with a comprehensive and transformative approach that enables workers to motivate, increase productivity, prevent health, physical and psychic problems, promote reconciliation between personal, family and professional life and reduce the operating costs of the Public Administration. The Government's action in this area is based on two pillars: the legislature and the manager. In the legislative pillar, which we are discussing here, the applicable legal framework is finalized, conforming to what is already in force for the other sectors of activity and responding to the obligation to transpose European legislation in this area. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at present, it is the absence of a sanction framework for safety and health violations at work in public administrations and the non-conformity that is to be resolved. The bill which is now under discussion in this House and which has been tabled by this Government will resolve this situation. In addition, the proposal for a law makes clear, without any doubt, that the employees of the Public Administration are covered by Law No 102 / 2009 of 10 September 2009 establishing the legal framework for safety and health at work at national level; clarifying, in this context, and broadly, the concepts of worker and public employer; promoting the use of common services in the Public Administration, in accordance with the system of the organization of State services and in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and efficiency of expenditure; and setting the end of 2020 as a deadline for the various bodies and services of the Public Administration to comply with the rules on safety and health at work, thus allowing them to properly prepare the application of the law. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an issue that deserves a broad consensus between employers and workers and was negotiated in 2018 with the public administration unions. The Government believes that, with the approval of the bill under consideration, an important contribution will be made to strengthening the capacity of the Public Administration to serve the country and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u215	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today we discuss the Government's proposed law to implement the health and safety regime at work, provided for in the Labour Code and supplementary legislation, to the organs and services of the Public Administration. What, then, does this proposal basically consist of? In extending to the public sector the rules of protection, safety and health of workers in the private sector, which have long been applied to the private sector. What the CDS realizes is that the Government's will to legislate on this matter was not much. They waited practically for the end of the legislature to present this proposal. Deep down, they dragged their feet. And as if that were not enough, they still established a transitional period by the end of 2020. I mean, this, to really be worth it, is just for the next legislature. The CDS records the obvious duality of criteria: the maximum requirement for the private sector and the maximum tolerance for itself, for the public sector. Now, really, what seems to be that this proposal is only put forward by the government because it really has to be: because we are in the European Union and because that is why we are bound by European legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u217	We were already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u218	And why this resistance? This resistance is because the State will have to start monitoring and sanctioning the State itself when it violates the safety and health rules of its workers. To make it clear: the CDS defends an equal requirement when the boss is the State or when the boss is the private one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u219	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u220	Therefore, in this regard, the CDS can only defend that respect for these rules should be subject to the same requirement, whether the boss is the State or whether he is a private. We will therefore be available to approve this initiative. Now let us be very clear: what we want to know is whether, in practice, the State will even be able to be demanding on its own and to monitor how its non-compliance should be. This is the real challenge for the Public Administration: to know whether the State can be demanding on its own. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u221	The next intervention is for Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State : Today we are discussing an initiative by the Government to implement the safety and health at work regime provided for in the Labour Code and supplementary legislation, to the bodies and services of the Public Administration. This initiative is still under public discussion, so the PSD will naturally consider all the contributions of the entities that will give us a statement on this issue, to which we will give the best consideration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u224	from the PSD, we also want to address a word of recognition to the active role that workers' representatives and trade unions have had over these years. Let's say it was thanks to his inspection action within the public employer that we were able to ensure the surveillance of hygiene, safety and health at work to the employees of the Public Administration. We therefore want to leave here our recognition of this matter. On our words to the Government, it is clear that the PSD cannot address the same recognition to the Government, since the Secretary of State will know as much as I know that this matter of hygiene, safety and health at work is a drop in the ocean on the compromise of collective dialogue and negotiation that the Secretary of State has signed with the representatives of the workers and the unions, and that today is not worthy of respect or compliance. These are the words of the PSD, but we did not need to listen to the words of the PSD, we just need to be aware of the strikes and manifestations that occur so that the Secretary of State could understand what teachers want, what doctors want, what nurses want, what the superior technicians want for diagnosis and therapy, what the judicial officers want, what the professionals of the security forces want. Finally, the Secretary of State will be able to assess much better than I am the word given to the public administration workers who have not yet been able to honor. Finally, this government has not been a generator of the peace and harmony that were required. The Secretary of State knows that this government has created a series of conflicts between private workers and public workers. For example, he managed to create a minimum wage for public service and today we know that, even among the public service workers themselves, this ability to generate equity and equality in treatment was not possible. Let us see that those EUR 50 million that the Secretary of State and her Government had to distribute in wage increases were distributed only by some civil servants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u225	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u226	I'm done now, Mr. President. Let me just finish my idea. And even though these EUR 50 million were distributed by some public administration workers, and not by all, it should be noted that there is a loss of points that have been accumulated in the evaluation of the performance of these public service workers. Finally, Mr President, it remains with me, who presides over this debate, as well as with all the Members and all the Members. Members, that the PSD commitment, from October, if the Portuguese give us the desire to come to rule the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u227	They will grant you a wish! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u228	... is that objectively changing the direction of this governance, especially in matters relating to workers, with whom the government has done nothing more than demagogy and populism. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u229	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Secretary of State : It is true that since 2009 there has been a legal vacuum in the application of the system of hygiene, safety and health at work in the Public Administration, but it is also true, Mr. Secretary of State, that there is no such legal void by chance. The CFP, for years now, in the vote, in the specialty in 2009, and over the last 10 years, has been alerting successive governments to this vacuum and demanding—as, moreover, the employees of the Public Administration and their representative organisations—to respond to this design. In 2009, PSD, CDS and PS did not want to correspond to this design. Between 2011 and 2015, we still had the aberration of the former Government, the PSD and the CDS, to make it clear that the ACT ( Labour Conditions Authority) has no competence in the area of hygiene, health and safety at work in the Public Administration. And today, 10 years later, we finally have a proposal, which we obviously follow, to apply the regime discussed here to the Public Administration. We therefore believe that, over 10 years, it is more than time to ensure that this regime is implemented. But it is also important to say that the application of this scheme cannot only mean that, in terms of working conditions, hygiene, safety and health at work, ACT can intervene and monitor. Mr. Secretary of State, this is a good principle, but the truth is that the CFP has brought concrete proposals for the valorization of public administration workers in this area which have been rejected by the same customs, i.e. by PS, PSD and CDS. With a first proposal, we have brought here a very important issue, which was the guarantee of allocation, in situations of penosity, health and risk, in central administration and local authorities, of its remuneration supplement, compensation for appropriate working hours and working hours and the increase of holiday and benefits for retirement purposes. That is to say, the recognition that this regime should be applied, because there are situations of penosity, insanity and risk and that, therefore, workers who are subject to this situation should be benefited. How did they vote for PS, PSD and CDS? They voted against it! A second proposal, the Secretary of State, was as follows: in the State budget, we proposed that it be possible for public administration workers to accumulate with their salary the invalidity pension resulting from an accident at work. How did they vote for PS, PSD and CDS? They voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u231	Who approved the Budget was Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u232	So, Madam Secretary of State, what we understand is this: the application of the regime is important, but it cannot be left only by the application of the regime. It must be recognised to the employees of the Public Administration — and, moreover, the State will be late to do so, because in the private sector, under collective bargaining, there are sectors that already allocate it — a subsidy of penosity, insanity and risk. For this reason, and also because the workers of central and local administration have carried out important struggles on this, I am sure that we will soon have the opportunity to vote back on proposals from the CFP, to create a penosity, insanity and risk allowance for all the workers of the central and local authorities, which is to establish justice and to guarantee the quality of public services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u233	For an intervention, Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal has been failing to do so in the European Union since 1989. And the right, by the way, did not drag his feet away, in fact, nor did his feet have to walk, because, all these years, it was the Government of the Socialist Party that did so. [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] This bill represents the continuation of the strategic revolution in the objectives and organization of the Public Administration, initiated by this government and based, as a fundamental point, on the valorization of workers. In addition to the replacement of 35 hours, the end of mobility/requalification, defrosting careers, the PREVPAP(Special Regularization Programme of the Prearranged Links in the Public Administration), the unlocking of collective bargaining and so many other situations, the improvement of working conditions in the Public Administration is a bet of this government, essential for the quality of life and work of public servants and the right way for a desirable increase in productivity. This is how it is done: I rest rights and improve working conditions. We can still remember that the Socialist Party's Government has returned to the ACT the powers of inspection in the field of safety and health at work, promoted measures to reduce absenteeism, created a system of incentives for innovation in the Public Administration and created the Qualifica AP Programme as a way to ensure the qualifications of workers. The PS has a perspective on working relationships based on decent work and on the trust that workers deserve, as citizens who are fulfilling and people of the word. However, there is no decent work if health and safety are not guaranteed. The existing legislation in this area is clearly insufficient and promotes conflicts. That is why the Government of the Socialist Party presented an Action Plan for Safety and Health at Work in Public Administration 2020, in fact promoting a collaborative network activity and was also on this path that this initiative was built. Finally, this bill means the placing of a fundamental stone in the democratic building of a public administration at the service of the people, as a guarantee of equal and quality performance, as the Socialist Party has always defended. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u235	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u236	Mr President, Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Mr. Members: The General Law on Public Works determines that it is an obligation for public employers to prevent occupational risks and diseases, taking into account the protection of worker's safety and health, and to provide good working conditions, whether physical or moral. It is an obligation of the public employer because it is a right of workers. However, this right has not come out of paper! In practice, this right is not effective, it does not happen, the State does not promote it, it does not know what is happening and does not control. No one controls, which means that it is up to all workers to fulfil their right to health, safety and health at work. The current law refers to the Labour Code, but, as has already been said, there is a void in this regime which makes it impossible to apply and, as has already been mentioned, to monitor. What this law does is regulate, operate the application of a safety and health system at work with some fundamental points: it creates a counter-ordering regime, enabling supervision; it defines 'employee' and defines that this regime is also applicable to workers who have no link with the Public Administration; it creates the obligation of information, for no one to go under this radar, so say; it creates common services, as previously announced; it holds the public employer and the leaders accountable in case of negligence; and it defines the system of fines. Finally, it is stated that the aim of this scheme is to standardise the safety and health systems at work between the public and the private sector. Regardless of what we consider about the various remittances of the General Labour Law in Public Functions for the Labour Code and the approximation of labour regimes in the public and private sectors, we know that not always is it good for workers to talk about uniformization of schemes. When the PSD and CDS, for example, talk about standardizing work arrangements between the private and the public, what they mean is that they want to be able to fire public officials, something that— happily! — the Constitution did not allow. However, for the CDS, to standardize regimes always means to cut the restraint and uniform the rights of workers. That is the problem whenever we talk about uniformizing regimes. The case of this scheme, in particular, creates a more favourable law for workers than it currently exists. Mr. Secretary of State, there are other issues in which there is inequality and that this government has the opportunity to correct. One of them has to do with the access of public servants to monetary compensation for service accidents. The Left Block has a project in this House on this matter and the Socialist Party is still in time to approve this project and to ensure that, in the case of service accidents, public officials are not given unequal and much less favourable treatment than that given to employees and employees in the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u237	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u238	I will finish, Mr. President. It is good to remember that in these matters too, for example, in the case of the penosity and risk allowance, which has already been discussed here, there is still much to do in order to value public servants. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u239	To close this item on the agenda, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There would be a lot to say about the public administration and surely the debate would be long, very interesting and very fruitful. I will be available to do so at any time when you and the Members. Members intend to conduct this debate, but today I am going to focus on the subject which is the subject of this bill. Also in this respect, the Government is not only fulfilling its Programme, it is going beyond what it has established in its Programme, not only regulating what has been lacking since 2009 but also turning from words to acts. In other words, by actively creating the conditions for the law to leave the paper and for public services to have operational capacity to implement the various safety and health measures at work. The action plan that was approved in February is already being operationalized and allow me to share some results that are already visible: the network that is dynamized by the Public Administration area, by the areas of work and health, has already held two meetings with more than 90 senior and qualified technical leaders in safety and health at work; there are more than seven projects to be developed, experimentally and definitively, in the various services, constituting mutual learning experiences that must leverage results; and the Work Safety and Health Training Programme, launched less than a month ago, already has over 150 entries. The performance is on the ground, the conditions are being created. We will continue actively with the dynamisation of the network and with the implementation of the action plan so that by the end of 2020 the conditions are effectively created. We all know that it is not enough to legislate and that management, the management pillar, is as important as the legislative pillar. It is in this context that the Government is committed to creating the best conditions for the full implementation of this law, with responsibility, with sustainability and, indeed, for the State to have an exemplary role in this matter also for the private sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u241	The general assessment of the Bill's proposal No 185 / XIII / 4 is thus closed. a. We move on to the fourth item on the agenda, with the general discussion of the Bill No 181 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes the regime for the settlement of disputes between judicial courts and administrative and tax courts, regulating the composition, competence, functioning and proceedings before the Court of Conflict. For an initial intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u242	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The regime in force concerning the Court of Conflict still exists today, as all know, of the regulation of the Supreme Council of Public Administration, a decree of January 1931, and therefore prior to the 1976 Constitution. It is therefore shaped by the principles and rules in force in the 30th century, rules and principles that, in the face of the oversight of a new fundamental law, are substantially different, when not, even contrary to those of our day. For example, the independence of the courts, the obligation and prevalence of court decisions for all public and private entities and even with regard to parity between the three categories of courts currently planned. Mrs. Members, this is, therefore, a scholarly regime that is particularly inadequate and generating dysfunctions, enhancing the maturity in the proliferation of decisions, which are called for speedy, and in the formation of a case-law, which is desired coherent and stable, in the area of the resolution of jurisdictional conflicts. This is, in fact, the main reason for change which is intended to take effect. With this bill, in addition to providing for the composition, competence, functioning and procedure before the Court of Conflict, an innovative regime for the resolution and prevention of judicial disputes is implemented between the courts and the administrative and fiscal courts. As regards the composition of the Court of Conflict, the present proposal for a law recommends that, in addition to the President, the former Vice-President of the Court of Justice be seated in the office and the vice-president of the Supreme Administrative Court elected from among and by the judges of the respective sections of administrative dispute and tax dispute, thus ensuring the plurality and scope of the views present in this instance as well. With regard in particular to the Presidency of the Court of Conflict, a system of strict parity is established between the guilty bodies of the judicial courts and the administrative and fiscal courts, being that arbitral tribunal chaired by the President of the Supreme Court of Justice or by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, according to the contested decision, the request for a resolution of the conflict or the preliminary consultation are, respectively, issued by a court or a TAF ( administrative and fiscal court ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment breaks with the paradigm currently in force. In the same vein, I should like to point out that the rule is put to an end that the judges making up the Court of Conflict will be drawn up for each case, which has caused, not rarely, contradictory decisions and waste of human resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u243	Mr. Secretary of State, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u244	Mr. President, I'm about to finish. We therefore believe that the composition now proposed for the Court of Conflict will promote the stability and consistency of our case-law. Finally, I would just like to add that to the currently existing two avenues of appeal for the Court of Conflict, a third route is added, created with the aim of avoiding, as far as possible, the withdrawal of proceedings on the basis of discussions concerning the competent jurisdiction. This is the possibility for any court to refer to the Court of Conflicts for preliminary consultations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u245	Would you like to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u246	Finally, I would like to make a note, Mr. Members, who are an urgent, cost-free process and who have been a bill that has brought a broad consensus within the legal community and who, I think, will also deserve the unanimous support of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u247	We went to the debate and the first intervention was the Left Block. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u248	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: I begin by congratulating them and then saying that it is about this proposal for an update that will be made in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the various procedural laws, both the common process and the fiscal administrative process, which still lies in a legislative innovation of almost a century ago. For this reason, only for the beginning of conversation, do you see the need for this change, since it is seen in this down-to-date situation, some of the problems that exist in conflict management and in its resolution by this way. Gomes Canotilho and Vital Moreira say that the most reasonable solution will be to constitute, ad hoc, a conflict tribunal formed between the two higher courts of their categories. This proposal for a law enshrines this solution with an appropriate, flexible formulation, consisting of a conflict tribunal, with the possibility of a preliminary consultation. Therefore, we follow this reflection. This proposal also includes a set of refinement solutions, including the Association of the Portuguese Judges and others, which have reached the Government and enabled an improvement of the bill. on the part of the Left Block, following in general, we will also have availability to promote further improvements, but we ensure that the path that has been pursued by the government conforms to our claims. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u249	The next intervention was Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Finally, the Under-Secretary of State and Justice, a non-technological measure in the area of justice that solves some of the problems. Although it is a small contribution, it solves a small part of the problem of speeding up justice, which is important to deal with. Those who do not walk in the courts and justice will have some difficulty in understanding what this is about the Court of Conflict and the conflict of jurisdictions. On the other hand, if we are to google by the Court of Conflict, something is absolutely wrong and people will surely be confused about what this is.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u251	Let's hear Mr. Deputy's explanation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u252	It's a simple thing that disturbs justice more than you can imagine at first sight. And I explain quickly what we're dealing with here. Normally, a conflict of jurisdiction occurs when an action is taken in a court, the court declares itself incompetent to resolve it and the other court to which the case is referred also declares itself incompetent to do so. This, of course, has consequences in the agility of justice, because the process is pushed from one side to the other and, rather than dealing with the fundamental issue, the issue is being dealt with in a manner and, as such, has an impact on justice. This happens more often than we can all think and there are very frequent examples of this, disputes between municipalities and municipalities, citizens and dealers. For example, I know that there is already a proposal to resolve this issue, but there was a lot of water charges being made in the courts, they declared themselves incompetent, and they referred the cases to the administrative and fiscal courts, which, in turn, were also found to be incompetent, but some already declared themselves competent. Finally, we had a mix of things that were difficult to deal with and the Court of Conflict did not have the agility needed to deal with this issue, because the legislation that still regulates it is very long overdue is obsolete. It is therefore important that this question be brought here and this initiative does even more than that: it allows the Court to know questions which are harmful, which is important when there are doubts about the matter. This is a good measure that lacks two or three clarifications, which have been mentioned here and which have also been dubbed in the opinion of the Association Union of Portuguese Judges. The CDS will, of course, be available to improve one or another detail in the specialty, but, Madam Secretary of State, the CDS follows this measure, which, in fact, does much more for justice than one can think at first sight. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u253	The next intervention lies with Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today the Government brings to the discussion a simple question, a positive contribution, a bill amending a regime that had been in force since 1931 on the Court of Conflict. at that time, it is true that questions were rarely asked with the need to be handled by these courts, but today it is also true that these requests are more frequent. from there the relevance of this amendment, given the natural inadequacy and some dysfunctions that have meanwhile emerged and that lead, of course, to the fact that decisions are not so fast and that jurisprudence is not stable. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this bill aims precisely to establish the dispute resolution regime that decides whether the proceedings should be tried by the courts or by the administrative and tax courts, where doubts arise as to the jurisdiction of the issues. The model proposed by the Government regulates the composition, competence, functioning and process of conflict courts. The legislation, now updated under this bill, creates precisely a court with effective members and also a mechanism for preventing conflicts for the most rapid resolution of cases. This is also an innovation that comes with this Government proposal. Through this harmful mechanism for a more rapid resolution of conflicts, as I have already mentioned, binding decisions are issued in the conflicts of jurisdiction, i.e. if a court of judicial or administrative order receives a certain action and has doubts about the competent area—if it will be a judicial area or an administrative area—it will immediately submit the question to the Court of Conflicts and the announcement itself will be binding, thus avoiding a multiplication of interventions on an issue which often functioned only as a difficulty in accessing the courts. Therefore, the PSD Parliamentary Group also sees this as a positive aspect. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State : We believe, as I have already said, that these proposed amendments can contribute to greater speed and stability, avoiding contradictory decisions. Thus, the PSD Parliamentary Group is here also to support this proposal put forward by the Government because we believe this is a constructive proposal, it is a positive step, and the PSD will support all government proposals in order to build a good path. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u255	Mr António Filipe of the CFP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u256	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice and Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: Sometimes we say that 3 minutes is short time to discuss a bill. in this case, we can say that the question is medium clarity, so the 3 minutes arrive and stay. In fact, what is involved is to update legislation dating back to the 30s of the last century, on the procedural way to resolve the positive and negative conflicts of jurisdiction between courts. In other words, when two courts are given jurisdiction to decide on a particular issue or when two courts refuse the competence to deal with a matter, it is necessary to find the form of the regular, and this is done through the existence of the courts of conflicts. That's what's regulated here. The way in which the Government proposes to resolve this issue is consensual. We had the opportunity to see the opinions that were sent both by the Superior Councils of the Magistrature and the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, either by the Attorney-General of the Republic, and there is a very large convergence on how to solve this problem. The Government's bill deserves general agreement. Obviously, on our part, we will vote in favour of this bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u257	The next intervention is the Socialist Party. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice : Indeed, the debate we are starting here today is, as it has been said, of reasonable clarity and serves up to a purpose which, in a way, took a long time ago. That is, today we can say that the reform of the administrative dispute is completed in its entirety. Two comprehensive reforms have already taken place in the area of administrative dispute. It remained and remained until the great reform which began at the beginning of this century. Indeed, we deal with legislation that is 80 years old, issued when he was President of the United States Franklin Roosevelt, which is a good indicator that perhaps some revision of the subject should have happened some time ago. In fact, there are three contentious regimes that fall within the previous constitutional framework, in which not even the guarantee, that the administrative courts were real courts, was assured, so it is drawn up in an outdated model of the relationship with the current jurisdictions, and indeed, while recognizing that several substantial changes to the law have helped to reduce the number of conflicts — i.e. changes in the context of public procurement, which have transferred to the administrative courts many of the matters that were at the origin of disputes in the past, is the new legislation on extra-contractual civil liability of the State, which has also avoided the increase in the number of conflicts, gradually reducing them — the fact remains the possibility of judicial disputes. Therefore, working with the regiment of the Supreme Administrative Tribunal of the 1930s is now manifestly impossible. in this sense, what the Government presents to us today is a complete response to all the elements of this discussion. On the one hand, by reviewing the composition of the Court of Conflicts, maintaining flexibility but having quite balanced criteria between the two jurisdictions, looking at the place of origin of the conflict as the criterion for determining either the presidency or the rapporteur of the cases, and, on the other hand, introducing here the very important mechanism of the questions of injury, which, I think, is perhaps the one that, more innovatively and with greater potential of effectiveness, may prevent the processes from being drawn up, i.e. the anticipation of the question of the conflict for the moment when it can be settled not as a matter of resources but as a question that is settled at a preliminary stage of the process which greatly helps the area of individuals, and that should be the most important area to be understood. In addition, it is also a matter that does not forget the necessary link with the resolution of another conflict with another order of jurisdiction, which is that of the Court of Auditors, or that of the relationship between the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Administrative Court, with which there may also potentially be conflict zones which are still cautious with the proper link with the law of proceedings in the Court of Auditors. Finally, the legislation also adapts the applicable procedural rules, putting them in line with both the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals and the new revision of civil procedural legislation, and we are finally left with a coherent regime that complements, after a long time, the one that was the effort of several governments, several legislatures, in order to give a full response to a matter that was still pending. I therefore believe that the atmosphere of unanimity present in the room reflects well the welcome to the initiative, which is to welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u259	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u260	I will finish, Mr. President. Let us hope that the initiative will be dealt with quickly, even within the framework of what is already being discussed in 1. the Commission, revising the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals and the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u261	To close this discussion, you again have the floor of Mrs. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u262	Mr President, I am not going to tire of this illustrious Assembly. I will only say that the Government is satisfied with unanimous views. This means that we have a good degree here, a better solution for transparency, good decisions and quick decisions, which is what our citizens expect from us. In reply only to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, whom I very much think of as being a measure that is not a technological solution, it is true that it is not, but, as someone had already said, we live in a tiresome society, and technological solutions are also very important. Now, of course, we must also make transformations in terms of what the procedures are so that these technological solutions do not effectively translate obsolete procedures. Thank you very much to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u263	The general discussion of the Bill No 181 / XIII / 4. the, we move on to the general debate of the Bill No 182 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure by accepting the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs. The first intervention in this matter is for the Government, through the Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Ribeiro, to whom I call again to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u264	Mr President, this proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic brings a number of amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure to comply with the obligations assumed by the Portuguese State resulting from its binding on the Convention of the Council of Europe against the Trafficking in Human Organs. This Convention, as you know, was approved by the competent Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, in August 2018, was ratified by decree of the President of the Republic, also of August 2018, and Portugal was one of the original signatory parties. This Convention constitutes a historic landmark in reaffirming international protection granted to persons who are victims of organ trafficking, thus translating a strong and strong response to transnational organized crime. The Convention, as you know, is anchored in three fundamental pillars — the criminalization of trafficking in human organs, the strengthening of international cooperation and the protection of victims and witnesses — and has an essentially criminal pendant. It aims to combat the facilitation of acts of extraction and use of human organs outside the context of transplantation aimed at therapeutic purposes and the marketing of organs, requiring States parties to criminalise related conduct carried out with the prospect of obtaining a financial gain or equivalent. Despite the fact that most of the crimes are already in our legal order, either because of the criminal offences provided for in the Criminal Code or because of the law approving the criminal regime of corruption in international trade and in the private sector, the fact is that there is no full correlation between the material content of the criminal offences contained in the Convention and our Portuguese system. In fact, as you know, our criminal order does not know the type of crime related to trafficking in human organs, and it is precisely to circumvent this failure that we have now introduced into our Criminal Code. In the same line of conforming our order to the requirements of the Convention, we dedicate the public nature of the crime and its inclusion in the concept of "highly organized crime", which, in addition to ensuring the Public Prosecutor's Office's active legitimacy to promote the criminal process, allows the use of a set of trials to obtain evidence and the application of procedural mechanisms reserved for the investigation of the most serious and complex crimes. It is also planned to exclude advertising of procedural acts, as well as non-advertising by the media of the victim's identity. The possibility of making statements for future memory is foreseen. This amendment to the Criminal Code, Mr. Members, and the Code of Criminal Procedure effectively translates a marked reinforcement in the protection of particularly vulnerable victims, which, as we know, are often exploited by highly organized criminal associations, which are devoted in a perpetual manner to this type of practice. Fortunately, Portugal is not yet in this universe of countries. Finally, it is worth noting that this Convention entered into force on 9 March, which has already been linked to the rules that incorporate this international instrument and which puts it on the front line, also through this proposal, of the countries that fight this kind of human rights-violent practice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u265	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: Trafficking in organs may be one of the most serious and serious violations of human rights. In addition, it is also a serious threat to public health and the health of patients. We have all heard reports from countries such as China, Pakistan or India from a few years ago in which there are clandestine clinics without the slightest clinical requirement—passing redundancy— where transplants are made in a completely criminal way, not only because of the origin of the organs, but also because of the health conditions, both the transplantee and donor, which, so many times and so often, do not know what you are doing. The increase in trafficking in children for this purpose is an evil that causes much suffering and with which international authorities have been increasingly concerned. This is a hard reality, very difficult to fight, because it is made in a sub-world where often it does not reach, and therefore these instruments are absolutely vital. The numbers—and we often have to look at the numbers—show the scary reality that we live. It is estimated that organ trafficking already yields about $10 billion per year, which is dangerously shading with drug trafficking or arms trafficking. It is a matter that, in fact, deserves our full attention. This is a problem which, in addition, is directly related to the trafficking of human beings and of which, in Portugal, we are not exempt. There are often black figures in the context of trafficking in human beings, even in Portugal; however, these black figures do not even show the reality of numbers, which, in Portugal, has been increasing, which should leave us concerned. Therefore, the Secretary of State, it is essential that we look at the matter in depth. The Convention giving rise to the criminal amendments that are now proposed originates in the Council of Europe and was signed in 2015 by Portugal. It's an essential tool that was missing. And it was not only lacking in training to deal specifically with the problem, but also in facilitating international cooperation in this area. This is a cross-border issue and therefore this cooperation is absolutely essential, and the CDS, of course, welcomes this matter unreservedly. However, Madam Secretary of State, there is something we have been saying for a long time and, unfortunately, despite our requests, we have been refusing our claim for a year. In conclusion, Mr President and Mrs Secretary of State, the CDS would prefer these amendments to be made in an extended, integrated and systematic review of criminal law. The Secretary of State knows as well as I do that criminal law in Portugal is cut and now goes to the 50th amendment. We had to look at the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure as a whole and make a revision of the heading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u268	We have not done that, we are making systematic and consecutive remedies to the Criminal Code. The CDS proposed a review a year ago and a year ago this government and this majority refuse to do so. It's too bad to be...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u269	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u270	I'll finish. I'm sorry, Mr. President. It is a shame that, whenever a pungent and urgent issue arises, we must once again make an amendment to the Criminal Code, which we already knew we had to do, and we are doing so on the remedies. It is a pity, but, finally, this proposal has our consent, yet. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u271	Mrs Elza Pais of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u272	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: The trafficking in human organs, which we are talking about today, is associated with trafficking in human beings, and both constitute a serious violation of fundamental rights and the dignity of the human person, setting up even new forms of slavery, as it is said. Portugal has been a pioneer in the fight against trafficking in human beings and has now also, in a more specific way, associated the fight against trafficking in human organs. We are faced with crimes that take on increasingly diverse, complex, sophisticated aspects, which implies precise legal definitions for more effective protection of victims and the dismantling of trafficking chains. I recall that 20 000 people, men, women and children are trafficked in the European Union, according to the European Commission's latest report. Portugal, when ratifying the Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs last year, in 2018, was on the front line in the organization of a firm response, as it is said on the basis of the proposal, and strong to transnational organized crime, which also constitutes a new historical framework in the fight against trafficking in human beings. The Government now intends to create a new legal type of crime, trafficking in human organs. Our legal order already welcomes the criminalization of conduct related to the extraction and marketing of human organs, but the now proposed autonomous incrimination makes our legal order more appropriate to the requirements of the Convention. In addition to empowering crime, the proposal also aims to enshrine its public nature and its inclusion in the concept of highly organized crime, which makes it more effective to combat and strengthen international cooperation. To conclude, I would also like to say that these legislative advances will obviously be welcomed within the framework of the IV Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings, which is ongoing and integrated into the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination 2018 - 2030 — Portugal + Equal, accompanying the objectives of sustainable development. In addition, Portugal was recently noted by GRETA ( Expert Group on Combating Human Trafficking ), the Council of Europe expert group, as one of the examples in the best practices manual already implemented in the Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings. The role of the Human Traffic Observatory has also been highlighted, both in data collection, which is always very difficult to conceal, either in geo-reference, which the Observatory also makes, in order to highlight a reality that we have to fight and de-occulty every day. However, as has already been said today, these kinds of crimes are always very closely associated...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u273	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u274	... to a difficulty of detecting and denouncing. Finally, Mr President, I just want to say that any strategies, any legal clearances are always welcome to ensure that victims have the best access to their rights and to strengthen the fight against organized crime networks and dismantle the trafficking chain. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u275	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u276	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: This is a debate that should not exist, because there should not even be an admission of trafficking in human organs. If there is anything that is unthinkable to be the object of a commercial act is a human organ. It is an indignity, atrocious violence, a situation that affects the most basic values of life. It is a heinous crime, a cruel reality that, unfortunately, we cannot ignore. It is a matter, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, which justifies today's debate and which must unite us all. Trafficking in human organs is an outrage to human dignity and the right to life, values, principles and the most important rights of mankind. Trade in human organs and trafficking in persons for organ removal has become a global problem and is already one of the most lucrative criminal practices in the world. It's a situation, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are truly horrendous, who take advantage of the shortage of organs, the fragility of disease and poverty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the huge demand for human organs has originated in a black market — where, for example, a kidney can cost about €500 000 — international organized crime networks, often with a transnational dimension, and even a transplant tourism. The initiative of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is justified, but, in our view, it is a sin for being late. It is justified, given that the Criminal Code and Law No. 12/93 do not sufficiently and autonomously provide for the type of conduct provided for in the Council of Europe Convention on Trafficking in Human Organs, but it does not fall late, because it comes with a delay of about four years, after the Portuguese State has signed the Santiago de Compostela Convention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u277	You guys didn't ratify it! They could have ratified it when they were in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u278	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this must be a global struggle in two areas: in terms of criminalization of the one who is a heinous crime and in terms of scientific progress. Any of these plans, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it requires commitment and investment by political decision-makers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the union of all, i.e. the union of the different party forces in Portugal, is essential for combating and preventing trafficking in human organs. The PSD is, of course, available to discuss the introduction of new infringements to strengthen the law and to increase legal cooperation in this area. He will therefore, in general, vote in favour of this initiative, thus giving a clear and unequivocal sign to all those who dedicate themselves to the practice of this monstrous crime. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u279	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This bill, which implements the ideas of the Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, is in the right direction to tighten the barrier against a crime that does not know borders and therefore deserves similar solutions from all countries so that the punishment of such behaviour is a reality. This is a proposal which deserves our support, in the same way as the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic which has adopted this Convention and which has merited the favourable vote of all parliamentary seats. In general, we note that the Government's proposal respects the spirit of the Convention, which, I recall, consisted of creating an autonomous crime of trafficking in human organs, strengthening international cooperation and ensuring the protection of victims and witnesses. of the amendments brought here, I highlight some that seem to be particularly important. The need to protect the victims of these crimes is present here with solutions we see with good eye. First, I refer to the fact that victims are allowed to make statements for future memory, something the Left Block has defended for other crimes and that it is an absolutely essential resource to protect the evidence and to avoid revitivating effects. This is therefore a good way. Just as it is a good path that is enshrined in the prohibition of publication, by any means, of the victim's identity, ensuring the reservation of his identity and privacy. In the same positive sense, it also refers to the fact that the crime of trafficking in human organs appears on the list of crimes associated with highly organized crime, something which will, of course, have important effects and impacts on the investigation of such crimes. There are, however, some issues that we believe might deserve other options. More than the fact that Portugal, the United Kingdom and the Czech Republic are the only countries that have chosen not to adopt the criminal's habitual residence as a criterion for being competent to punish these crimes, we are concerned about the question of Article 4 of this new type of crime, since the use of vague or inadequate concepts, such as the reference to the arts laws, may call into question the constitutional principle of criminal legality. This fundamental aspect should be given special attention in the field of expertise. However, reiterating what I said at the beginning of my speech, this is a bill that generally goes the right way and will therefore deserve the favourable vote of the Left Block bench. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u281	For the last intervention before the closure of this point, Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u282	Mr President, Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, Members: Indeed, this bill seems to us absolutely relevant, since Portugal is internationally bound to legislate on this matter, in accordance with the Convention signed in Santiago de Compostela on combating trafficking in human organs. This Convention points to an autonomous criminalization of this type of crime and, although it can be said that it has an indirect prediction in the Portuguese Criminal Code, this does not replace the need to clearly characterize the crime of trafficking in human organs. That is what this bill is about and, obviously, in view of the seriousness of this criminal offence, it is not just a crime against the physical integrity of people. This is in fact not only a very serious way of offending physical integrity, but a deaf business that cannot take place. Since it is organized and transnational crime, there should be very effective cooperation by all States in the prevention and suppression of this type of crime. in this sense, it seems to us that the transposition into the Portuguese legal-penal order not only of the criminal type, but also of the procedural mechanisms provided for in the Santiago de Compostela Convention makes all the sense. That is why we will be very much in charge of this bill. There is a question raised in the opinion that was sent by the Attorney-General of the Republic which seems to us to make all the sense that is being equated in the specialty and that has to do with the systematic inclusion of this type of crime in the Criminal Code. The question that arises is whether to include crimes against the physical integrity of persons or to do so in the human trafficking aspect. The view expressed by the Attorney-General of the Republic is that this second option makes sense, i.e. that this type of crime is included in the section of the Criminal Code on trafficking in human beings, because it is indeed a type of crime that is very close to human trafficking. Moreover, human trafficking itself is, in fact, one of the modus operandi of criminal organizations that are involved in organ trafficking. Let's say it's not a substantive issue. With regard to the substantive issue, I believe that we will easily agree; in any case, the issue I have just mentioned, since we will certainly have to have a debate in the specialty, it is worth seeing the best systematic inclusion of this type of crime in our Criminal Code. On the substantive issue, which is essential, of course, that the PCP Parliamentary Group is in favour of the introduction of this type of crime in the Portuguese Penal Code and also the introduction of the procedural mechanisms that are proposed regarding the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u283	In order to close this item on the agenda, he has once again the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is one more bill that has merited the unanimity of the Members. Members, who have highlighted the positive aspects of this proposal. On some issues which have been listed here and which may deserve a greater reflection, of course, that the Government is open and fully adheres to which this reflection and these proposals may result in an improvement in the diploma. With regard to the issue raised here, these amendments appear late, although it is true that this Convention has already taken effect, the fact is that it was only ratified in August 2018. Therefore, only from that point on could we actually introduce these amendments into our legal system, in order to make it compatible with what they are, let us say, with the incriminations provided for in this Convention. I should like to inform you. Members that this work, which resulted in the presentation to this House of this diploma, was based on a fruitful and highly collaborative partnership between technicians, doctors and other professionals of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice who, for about five months, worked hard to bring this set of amendments to this House today. It is a diploma that puts us in the front line of the countries that are effectively concerned about this phenomenon, which is indeed extremely serious and which affects everyone, but above all, the least favoured in society and which, in fact, denies them as human beings. It is a destructive sign of the sense of humanity that we should have for one another. Obviously, the State must pay attention to these practices and must now have the correct attitude, which is that, since it is attached to the normative instruments, implement in the field real conditions that allow these situations not to occur. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u285	We will move on to the sixth item on the agenda, which consists in the general debate of the Bill No 184 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the overall review of the language used in the relevant international human rights conventions to which the Portuguese Republic is bound. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Paula Zacharias, Secretary of State for European Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The words are the mirror of the values and attitudes of a society. This bill, with only two articles, has a huge symbolic value, but also practical. It undertakes a comprehensive review of language in the relevant international human rights conventions, to which the Portuguese Republic is bound, replacing the expression 'human rights' with 'human rights' and drawing up, in law, the path already made in this matter in orality, in the production of academic documents, in social communication, by several actors who, day by day, already use the term 'human rights', recognizing the value it has. The bill currently under discussion complies with the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, which is now six years old, which recommends the adoption by public and private entities of the universalist expression to refer to human rights. For this government, this amendment of the expression "human rights" by "human rights" is relevant and not only symbolic, since it reaffirms our commitment to the universalism of human rights. The Government has therefore accompanied this proposal for a resolution of the Council of Ministers which determines the adoption by the Government and the entire Public Administration of the expression "human rights" in all official documents and orality. In the current context, the perpetuation of the expression "human rights" is clearly inadequate. The expression does not reflect the spirit and letter of the instruments that constitute the acquis de droits humanes. The Portuguese translator's choice for this expression was undoubtedly influenced by Francophone culture and eventually reproduced the expression born in the context of the French Revolution, in which many of the fundamental rights were not effectively recognized to all. The Universal Declaration was drawn up in a quite distinct historical and political context, at a time when human rights correspond to a set of fundamental principles aimed at guaranteeing the rights of all individuals. in this measure, the Universal Declaration introduced concepts such as universality, equality and non-discrimination. On the other hand, in the different production systems of regional human rights or the United Nations, non-binding acts have been adopted which recommend the use of neutral and non-discriminatory language in different fields and by different actors. Thus, the defense of non-discrimination, inclusion and equality requires the use of a neutral and inclusive language of all holders of fundamental human rights, whether men, women, children, minorities, indigenous groups, persons with disabilities or migrants. They are the rights of ALL, with capital letters, are human rights in all its fullness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u287	Mr José Manuel Pureza spoke for a speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs: There are laws that have only one sentence and that can change much more than complex and gigantic laws. Social change and cultural change are made of practices and the drag to take these practices and for a long time we know that language is a practice that changes or preserves. Of course, as regards the dignity of people, the most important thing is that it materializes in concrete things and to this the Conservatives will add that what matters is not that it is called 'human rights' or 'human rights', what matters is that rights are respected. To these Conservatives, I answer with one question: are they available to use the expression "women's rights" to designate the rights of all people?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u289	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u290	I know that the answer will be outraged « no! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And I share that answer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u292	...because she shows that language can be a violence, daughter of stupidity. It is against this violence and this idioticity that we approve this proposal, because sometimes mere normality and mere decency are the most castious of the objectives. That's how this proposal is, and that's good! [[Congratulations on BE and on the PS and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u293	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State for European Affairs: I would like to begin by commending the Government for the introduction of this bill, which revises the expression 'human rights' for 'human rights'. As we well know, language is never neutral, it is a powerful instrument, it is a means by which we express our thoughts and that influences our attitudes, perceptions and behaviors, reflecting also the world in which we aspire to live and work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u296	Let me therefore point out three points which this amendment closes. First, evolution — evolution because words and their meaning change and how we use them must accompany this change. « Human rights », as mentioned above, is an heir to the French Revolution, the Declaration of Human and Citizen Rights of 1789. And the reality is that the language of the recognition of the inalienable rights of the human being has evolved in a universal, inclusive and non-discriminatory sense. An example of this evolution is the fact that the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights has been translated into several languages, taking into account this concern. Hence, in English, the expression « human rights », instead of « rights of man », was chosen. Even France, which is the cradle of human rights, made this amendment in its Constitution last year. And also at the level of the European institutions, there has been an effort to use an increasingly inclusive language. Secondly, this review does not only meet the spirit of the Universal Declaration, as of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic itself. In fact, Article 1. that of our Constitution, refers to the human person, stating that Portugal is a sovereign Republic, based on the dignity of the human person. Thirdly, it is important to remember that this is a step that is included in the policies to combat discrimination and promote equality and inclusion, measures pursued by this Government and, moreover, that are part of our political DNA and that have always been a very visible mark of the governments of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u298	In fact, it has led to the production, in abundance, of legislation in different fields: at business level, through gender balance in management positions; at work level, ensuring equal pay between men and women; and at political level, with the law of parity. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to reinforce that the fight against discrimination and the promotion of a policy of equality and inclusion are undoubtedly the adoption of a neutral and inclusive language that covers all people. And when we talk about all people, we don't just talk about men and women, we talk about men, women, children, minorities, people with disabilities, migrants — we talk about everyone. This initiative takes the step of monitoring this evolution, reaffirms the universality of rights, using an expression, also as universalist and comprehensive as possible: human rights. It is another example of how a small change can have enormous meaning. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u299	Mr Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The Government's initiative for discussion aims to undertake a comprehensive review of the language used in the relevant international human rights conventions to which the Portuguese Republic is bound. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed in 1948 by the General Assembly of the United Nations, enshrined an important set of civil, political, social, cultural and economic rights which, obviously, must be applied to all human beings, regardless of their social status, political or ideological convictions, their sex, their colour, their religion or their sexual orientation. The Universal Declaration, in referring to human rights, did not intend to favour men and men and men; what was intended was the recognition of these rights to all human beings. In recent decades the expression « human rights » has been replaced by the expression « human rights », which has been adopted by the United Nations, which we follow. But more important than the overall review of language is even the fulfilment of the rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration, such as the right to social security, the right to protection in unemployment, the right to adequate remuneration for those who work, the right to equal pay for work, the right to food, clothing, housing, medical care, the right to leisure and the right to free education. That is what all human beings really want. Be men, be women, be children, all want to see these rights enshrined. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u301	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor of one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The replacement of the expression 'human rights' by 'human rights' is not possible. Paraphrasing what Mr António Filipe had just said, this is a discussion that did not need to happen, because it is obviously acquired, it is a matter that is already embodied in official language and which has gradually also been introduced into the language of civil society and which has therefore been widely used in recent years. This bill, moreover, results in a resolution adopted by this Parliament in 2013, in which it is specifically recommended, that official documents use this language, as well as school and academic manuals, and that in the exercise of political and public functions this is a matter of fact acquired. It is true that this bill has a strong symbolic effect, but it has a reduced useful effect, insofar as this is something that was already acquired and that gradually the expression in what was being updated would be revoked. This is a matter that does not need any discussion at all. The CDS has nothing strictly against and nothing else to say, Madam Secretary of State. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u303	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u304	Mr President, I would like to begin by complimenting you, as well as the Secretary of State for European Affairs, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The PSD follows this bill, but it wants to go much further than what its content enshrines. As Mrs Lara Martinho pointed out, the bill is still in a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, which was adopted unanimously in 2013, and which was submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group together with the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. This resolution, in effect, goes much further than merely materializing the replacement of the expression "human rights" by "human rights" in international conventions, as well as in relation to legislative acts and all official documents, whether they are of a normative or administrative nature and, above all, in relation to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. I can't help but mention what Mrs Carla Cruz said. It is not true that the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights has ever been called the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. What happened was that the Portuguese regime translated into « human rights », but the English word is « human rights ». This is the paradigm of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which must be materialized in all documentation, whether it is official or private, in Portugal. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva said with some grace that this course was taken following the resolution that we were co-proponents and that it was adopted in 2013. But I would point out that, two or three days ago, the President of the Assembly of the Republic in question had to correct a member of the government who used the term "man" in this Chamber rather than the term "individuals". Therefore, this course, which has been fought a lot in this Parliament, needs to be more encouraged, and an effective legislative act encourages it, because it makes this change of behaviour mandatory. But I would point out again that we need to make this amendment also in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and, above all, in school textbooks and academic manuals, because they are educating the next generations in the sense of an expression. It is therefore absolutely necessary to intervene on this point. Mr President, in my remaining time, I would also like to challenge Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic. On the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which we celebrated on 10 December, the Assembly of the Republic uses a poster that gave an artist a few years ago. I know that Mr President has inherited it, but it is a poster containing the expression « Universal Declaration of Human Rights ». I therefore urge the President to refer this letter to the catacombs of the Republic Assembly so that he will never see the light of the day again, because we must set a clear example from here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the suggestion. I call on the Secretary of State for European Affairs to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the speeches and record the unanimity that this issue deserves in this House. Of course, what unites us is to act in respect and in the promotion of human rights, but it is also fundamental, at this time when we talk so much about fake news, to examine not only the truth of what we say, but also the truth of the language through which we speak. This is a fundamental theme. at this moment, we are adapting our language to the times, we are adapting our language to the spirit of the Universal Declaration, to the spirit of the Portuguese Constitution, which has, as has already been said, an important educational value. It is important for our young people to be able to effectively know what is the content of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and who understand the meaning of their expression of universality. Finally, I would say that the adoption of this expression in the bill comes together, as I have already mentioned, with a resolution of the Council of Ministers which also determines the adoption by the Government and the entire Public Administration of the universalist expression "human rights". Therefore, this adoption is broader than that of the legislation which is intended to be adopted here today. Finally, I would say that the adoption of this law is also a positive development, which we will present at the Human Rights Council in Geneva on 8 May at the time of the universal periodic review on the human rights situation in Portugal. in this way, we will also note, at international level, this change of language which is now proposed here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u307	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the last point of this plenary meeting, which consists of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services to prepare our terminals for the electronic recording of the quorum. In the meantime, Mrs Emília Santos will report on the file she has entered the Bureau. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u308	Recommends that the Government conduct a forensic audit to the accounts of EMPORDEF and the Naval Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo, which goes down to 3. the Commission, and 2092 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for effective investment in hospital pharmacies of the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 130 / XIII / 4 was also included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 44 / 2019 of 1 April implementing the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of civil protection. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u309	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will then proceed to the electronic verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 194 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members of the PS Fernando Anastácio, Maria Manuel Leitão Marques and Pedro Delgado Alves, of the Member of the PSD Mariana Silva, of the members of BE Jorge Costa and Mariana Mortágua and of the Members of the CDS-PP Assumption Cristas and Telmo Correia ( CDS-PP ), therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us then enter the voting period, beginning with vote No 800 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Anna Mascolo, who will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u310	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last week the teacher and choreographer Anna Mascolo died, a dancer who stood out in the history and in the teaching of dance in Portugal. Born in Naples, he arrived early in Lisbon, where he continued studies at the Italian School - current Italian Institute of Culture. It was in the Portuguese capital that he began to feel at home, registering at the age of 13 in the dance section of the National Conservatory. In 1944, he integrated the Circle of Coreographic Initiation, in which implementation and development came to have decisive action. In 1947, he graduated from the Conservatory, receiving the New Generation Prize the following year. at the age of 28, he founded the School Studio of Anna Mascolo. I was teaching at the Lisbon High School of Dance, the National Conservatory and the Faculty of Human Motorcycles. In 1971, he became artistic director of the Ballet Experimental Group, an embryonic project of the Gulbenkian Ballet. His vision of dance pedagogy was born from the various professional crossings he did, going through several schools and countries that contributed to his vast curriculum. Anna Mascolo also played an important role in regulating the rights of professional dancers, being a decisive booster of national legislation. For his cosmopolitanism, influence and pedagogical vision, he received several distinctions, including the Order of the Child Dom Henrique ( 2004 ), the Order of Public Instruction ( 2018 ), and the first Doctorate Honoris Cause in Dance in Portugal ( 2002 ), by the Faculty of Human Movement. It became a fundamental name in the formation of several generations of dancers and choreographers, always being remembered as someone with whom, in Portugal and in the world, wrote the history of dance. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the memory and legacy of Anna Mascolo, expressing to his family and friends his most sorry for his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now turn to Vote No 801 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — Congratulations on the distinction of filmmaker Rita Azevedo Gomes at the International Film Festival in Las Palmas. Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 802 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PS and subscribed by PSD Members ) — Congratulations for the 70 years of the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were approved.]] We passed to Vote No 803 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the Greens and subscribed by PS Members ) — Condemning the repression of the Palestinian population by the Israeli authorities. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Miranda Calha and the abstention of PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We turn to vote No 804 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Congratulations on the recognition of the exceptional quality of the Centre for Research in Biodiversity and Genetic Resources ( CIBIO-INBIO ), of the University of Porto, which will be read by Ms. Secretary Emilia Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u312	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 3 April, the Centre for Research in Biodiversity and Genetic Resources ( CIBIO-INBIO ) of the University of Porto received the simultaneous approval by the European Commission of two applications for competitive financing under Horizon 2020, at an estimated total value between 130 and 150 million euros. With these approvals, the European Commission recognises the exceptional quality of the work carried out by a national research centre, which happens, with this dimension and format, for the first time in the history of science in Portugal. For this research centre, these tests are the ideal context for the development of an innovative, high-quality research with a strong social, environmental, economic and cultural impact, which will contribute to a better society, capable of making informed choices. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the recognition of the exceptional quality of work developed by the Centre for Research in Biodiversity and Genetic Resources and what this means for the enhancement of science in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u313	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on an application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, without voting for a period of 60 days of the Proposal for a Law No 178 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Other Code of the Tax on the Income of Collective Persons in the Field of Impairments of Credit Institutions and Other Financial Institutions. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore goes down to 5. the Commission. We now generally vote for Law No 180 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alteration of various tax codes. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. The vote on an application submitted by BE is followed by a request for discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without a 60-day vote of the Bill No 1181 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the equity benefit on deferred tax assets covered by the special scheme approved by Law No 61 / 2014 of 26 August. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote for an application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a period of 60 days of the Proposal for a Law No 185 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Sets out the forms of implementation of the safety and health system at work provided for in the Labour Code and legislation complementary to the bodies and services of the Public Administration. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore goes down to 10 without a vote. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 181 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes the regime for the settlement of disputes between judicial courts and administrative and tax courts, regulating the composition, competence, functioning and proceedings before the Court of Conflict. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Low to 1. the Commission. We shall also, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 182 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure by accepting the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Low to 1. the Commission. The general vote on the Bill No 184 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the overall review of the language used in the relevant international human rights conventions to which the Portuguese Republic is bound. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Low to 2. the Commission. We now vote on draft resolution No 1519 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Acting for a Demarcated Douro Region in the future. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2002 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Decides by the cancellation of the construction of the Fridão dam, inserted in the National Program of Potential Hidroelectric High Barrages. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PCP, in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Hugo Carvalho and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 2043 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government decide to cancel the construction project of Fridão Hydroelectric Supply. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PCP, in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Hugo Carvalho and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let's vote on draft resolution No 2064 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a new environmental impact study within the framework of the Fridão Hydroelectric Development project, with a strict assessment of the risks to the affected territories and populations. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and PAN, votes against the PS and the Greens and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u314	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u315	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u316	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that we will present a written statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u317	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u318	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u319	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u320	Mr President, it is also to announce that the Greens will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u321	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on Bills Nos 707 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Restores the House of the Douro as a public association, 840 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Approves the Statutes of the House of Douro ( PCP ) and 841 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes, and the authors of the diplomas withdraw their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD Member Maria Manuela Tender and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting for the plenary of the indexary votes held at Commission level in the speciality. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote on this replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD Member Maria Manuela Tender and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u322	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u323	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u324	Mr President, it is in order to announce to the House that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u325	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on Bills Nos 13 / XIII / 1. a ( The Greens) — Preferential for local food production in public canteens, 58 / XIII / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotion of access to local production agricultural products to public canteens, 66 / XIII / 1. a ( PAN) — Transition to a healthier and sustainable diet in public canteens, using local and organic agricultural products and 71 / XIII / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrates a scheme for the selection of food products in public canteens and restaurants. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u326	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u327	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr. Hélder Amaral?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u328	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS-PP bench will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u329	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 47 / XIII / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Disciplinary Statute of the Public Security Police. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u330	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u331	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u332	It is to announce that I will make a written statement of vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-05.u333	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 169 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen the rights of suspected or accused minors in criminal proceedings by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 800. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of the 34 to 46 of the Journal for plenary meetings held on 3, 4, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 25, 30 and 31 January 2019. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. We have thus come to the end of our work today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 10 April, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: firstly, there will be political statements; secondly, together, Petition No 506 / XIII / 3. a ( National Association of Sergeants ) — Suspension of the effectiveness of RAMMFA — Regulation on the Evaluation of the Merit of Armed Forces Military and Resolution Projects Nos 1568/ XIII/3. a ( PCP ) — Suspension of the effectiveness and reassessment of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation and 1950 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government suspend the effectiveness of the Military Military Merit Assessment Regulation ; thirdly, we shall proceed to the examination of Petition No 469 / XIII / 3. a ( Commission of Transport Users of the Sixth ) — For a better public service, claiming renewal and reinforcement of the Transtejo / Soflus fleet, together with Bill No 1093 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July, including in the list of essential public services the passenger transport service, in general, and Resolution Projects No 1952 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By defence, qualification and promotion of public inland waterway transport service in Transtejo and Soflusa companies, 1953 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the signing of a public transport service contract with Transtejo / Soflusa and the approval of a multiannual investment plan 2019 - 2022, 1957 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Promotion of a public service of quality and efficient in the river transport of Transtejo and Soflusa and 1959 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote the improvement of the public transport service carried out by Transtejo / Soflusa. A good weekend for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 36 minutes.]]
