ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u1	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter our agenda, which is the end of the debate on the XXII Constitutional Government programme, we have to vote for an opinion from the Ethics Sub-Commission which has not "falled" with the end of the last legislature and which is urgent. I would therefore ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read it in order to be voted on. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Lisbon Central Civil Judge of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No 21260 / 17.2T8LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr João Pinho de Almeida ( CDS-PP ) to testify in the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now closing the debate on the Government programme. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, of the Free, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: One of the objectives of the current Executive is officially to combat climate change. The APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) informed us yesterday that the environmental impact assessment finds no element that prevents the advance of Montijo airport. It is therefore urgent to understand how you can move forward with this airport at a time of climate emergency and to what extent this is consistent with the objective of a green impact on Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u5	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the Socialist Party's Government Programme now ends, a document that shows a vision for the country quite different from ours. It is a Program that maintains the same ideas that led the country to two decades of stagnation and not a Program that points to a path of prosperity. A program that concentrates on redistribution of wealth without taking care of creation is a program of those who prefer to eat cake today instead of bet on leaving a bigger cake for those who follow us. in the words of Carlos Guimarães Pinto, who really likes the poor are the socialists, because it is in the socialist regimes that the poor multiply. It is a programme that does not want to make Portugal a more prosperous country but wants Europe to force the other countries to be poorer. The Socialist Party, instead of learning from countries that have known how to grow, will tell them that they are adopting tax regimes as ruinous as ours. It is a programme that provides for an increase in powers for the Tax Authority but does not concern itself about the protection of taxpayer rights. It is a programme that demonstrates, once again, that the Socialist Party only knows how to govern by always fattening, year after year, public spending and the power of the State, a programme that, to be implemented, will also result in an increase in taxes, rather than trying to free companies and taxpayers from tax oppression. It is a Program that pushes our best talents for emigration, rather than bet on holding these talents or returning them — and there are many! — they have already sought other countries. It is a Program that ignores the good results and distances good private management from health rather than promoting the freedom of choice of citizens in access to that health. It is a Program that keeps the privilege of choice to those who are richest and public servants, condemning others, the most disadvantaged, to the waiting ranks of the decapitalized and captive SNS. It is a programme that ignores the remoteness of citizens from political life, as the abstention on the last day of October 6 shows, abandoning the much-needed reform of the electoral system. It is a programme of the largest government ever, in which the 50 State Secretaries and the 19 ministries will run over each other, which promises to create even more bureaucracy, rather than being a programme that begins, gradually, to dismantle the excesses of the state machine. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is, above all, a programme that shows that the PS does not believe in Portuguese or what they are capable of. Therefore, he does not give them freedom of choice in public services, so he does not trust that they will be able to give the best destiny to his life and his money. This is the big difference between these two visions: the PS believes in the controlling State, the Liberal Initiative believes in free people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u7	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we close the debate on the Government's programme and what is left of us these two days of discussion, also unprecedented in the history of democracy? We have the idea of a government that does not want to admit but will increase the penalisation of the Portuguese in the IRS and, above all, it will penalise those who work the most, the more they strive and every day they want to continue to contribute, for example, to support this huge government that we have here today at the government bench. This is also a government in which it is worth being subsidized-dependent, because it is a government that will reward those who want nothing to do, rather than those millions of Portuguese people who are called every day to work to support this huge government that we have here. It is also a government that will make the greatest attack on the values of the history of democracy and therefore prepare to approve, in this House, that it should be of all Portuguese, proposals such as euthanasia. Here we are, but we hope to hear Mr. Prime Minister today about the position he was trying to hide yesterday. Tell us, Prime Minister, will you or will you not approve euthanasia in Portugal? Take it before the millions of Portuguese people who are seeing their performance at the moment. The public housing, always the public housing—of course, against those who work, who strive and pay their taxes to support themselves every day—, the public housing for all, pay the rents or not, pay what they have to pay, we are here to pay what we have to pay, we are always here to continue to support the state. It is a programme that forgets the great problems of the country, it is a fantasy in health, it is, above all, the ignorance and humiliation of the security forces and our security, so it is a programme that does not even dare touch the security problems of the country. For this reason, he ignores pensioners, those who have fought their entire lives to have something and today face incomes of 170 €, 200 € and 300 € per month, against those others who do nothing and have incomes of 1000 and 2000 €. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] The truth is hard to hear, but we have to say: this is a government that pushes and therefore it is worth being subsidized-dependent with a socialist government. If the government had to have a label, this would be the government of dependent subsidies, because in fact it will create an even greater class of those who want to live on behalf of the State, against those millions of Portuguese who work to support themselves and pay their debts. Mr Prime Minister, this is a programme that should be voted on, not because it did not happen, we all know the hypocrisy that reigns on the left, but to understand who is actually willing to support this Government Programme. This is a programme that should have been voted on so that the Left Block, the PCP and the Free will could tell the Portuguese whether or not they will support the greatest attack ever on the middle class in Portugal, the greatest attack ever on security forces in Portugal and the greatest attack ever on good Portuguese people who work to support, and I conclude, Mr President, the greatest government ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u9	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Four years after the parties on the left had built democratic formulas to interrupt the policies of social massacre that the right was preparing to continue imposing on our collective destiny, four years after the right had called the devil for discussion and announced to the world that was coming to the end of the world, here we are without the end of the world, without the shadow of the devil and with this legislature starting exactly as planned from the legal and constitutional point of view, that is, four years later. For history there are cuts in the incomes of families and the rights of those who work, cuts in reforms and pensions and the closure of public services throughout the country. But behind are also the State's budgets with doubts about their conformity with our Constitution and the clear disrespect for the autonomy of local democratic power. Yes, because the chamber presidents certainly remember the time when it was necessary to request authorization from the Minister of Finance whenever they needed to hire a worker for their authority, in order to be able to respond to the needs of the people. Of course, the autarchs still remember this time, the time that it reminded us of other times, and today, four years later, we are here at the right time to discuss the Socialist Party's Government Programme. A programme where, in the perspective of the Greens, there are positive elements, negative elements and, above all, elements with many « but», as we had the opportunity to identify during yesterday's discussion. Now, what we hope is that this programme will allow the government to present the appropriate proposals, either in the normal legislative plan, either through the State budgets, to have the right accounts: right accounts with pensioners; right accounts such as the National Health Service; right accounts with education; right accounts with public transport; right accounts with protected areas; right accounts with all public services; right accounts with whom it works. And here it was absolutely decisive to understand the value of 750 € as the minimum value of discussion for a decent, fair national minimum wage that allows families to escape the risk of poverty. This is what the Greens expect from the Government: right accounts with the Portuguese and right accounts with our natural resources. As far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, we expect the new component of Climate Action to have practical and consequent effects, which requires cross-cutting action in a number of sectors with interference in the processes of mitigation and adaptation to climate change, with a particular focus on transport and agriculture. What we expect from the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action is responsibility and, above all, the presence of public interest in decisions with great environmental impact, such as the location of airports or the unbridled exploitation of lithium. What we expect is a more consistent and courageous position on the management of Iberian cases with impacts in Portugal, from now on in matters such as the flows of international rivers and the revision of the Albufeira Convention, but also in the case of the Central Nuclear of Almaraz. What we expect from the Ministry of the Environment for Climate Action is that, with the closure of the thermal power plants to Sines and Pego coal, the rights of the workers of these plants, especially the workers who belong to companies subcontracted by EDP or the Tejo Energia, are safeguarded. What we expect is that the closure of these two plants does not involve any compensation to the operators of these plants. There is, from a contractual point of view, no State obligation on the level of compensation for its closure. The Pego Central concludes its Energy Acquisition Agreement exactly in the year in which the Government intends to close the central and central of Sines for a long time since it has seen its period of operation in accordance with such Energy Acquisition Contracts and such Contract Maintenance Costs, contracts through which, in fact, the central has obtained substantial financial and generous funding to reduce its environmental impact. If there is no contractual obligation, there can be no compensation for the closure of these two plants. This is what we expect from the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action : responsibility and presence of public interest in decisions. I finish exactly as the Greens began the discussion of the Government Programme: as long as there is a road to walk, here we will be close, whenever the road is the right way. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u11	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After listening to Mr Prime Minister and the members of the Government on the main programme lines for this legislature, we cannot fail to highlight the importance of the government having converged with the NAP in some areas, even though there is still an important way to go. The country needs to be guided by a strategic, multidisciplinary and interministerial vision that responds to the effective needs of people, whether in terms of health, housing, transport, labour rights, inclusion and non-discrimination, among others. The policies for disease prevention and health promotion and healthy life, including mental health, are recognized by us as one of the main guiding threads of the government and should therefore be present in the definition of all public policies developed by the State. The number of people with chronic non-communicable diseases increases every year in Portugal and we occupy the third place in the list of countries in the world where citizens consume more antidepressants. The well-being and happiness of people and the sustainability of the SNS inevitably go through disease prevention policies and the NAP will be an active voice in its implementation. It is not understood, however, how the leaders of successive governments can justify the political decision that has gone through the de-investment in health over the past two decades, with the loss of the health of thousands of people and the working conditions of the professionals in the sector, which is worse in the case of regional asymmetries. In parallel with this investment, the issues related to poverty, ageing and demographic distribution in the territory, which are the basis of serious inequalities that the NAP considers urgent. We are strongly committed to following the Sustainable Development Agenda, which defined as its first goal to end poverty in all its forms and in all its places by 2030, still referring to its preamble that no one, I repeat, should be left behind. Inequities of income and disparities in the distribution of wealth are a serious obstacle to inclusive development and social justice. Portugal remains one of the most unequal countries in the European Union and one of the worst in social mobility. We also have 2, 2 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, a situation that affects in particular children and elderly people, the women most affected by resource failure. The precariousness of jobs, the fact that the social elevator is more than damaged in Portugal, the differences in opportunities, the daily difficulty of someone who has a patient in the family and who spends days and days in hospitals with no response, or who wants to go to an administrative service that only exists 50 km away, are some of the challenges that we have to solve. It is therefore essential to ensure the existence of sustainable and lasting employment, the fight against precariousness, through the security and valuing of people's jobs, not forgetting those that integrate public services, and ensuring the necessary generational renewal in the face of the demographic ageing we are facing today. A fairer society is also made through a culture of collective demand for justice, transparency and integrity, which is why we will continue to call for special attention to issues of transparency and the fight against corruption, which cost Portugal some EUR 18 billion annually. We reiterate the need to ensure access to justice and the existence of specialized courts, together with the strengthening of human resources and materials affecting the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Police, the promotion of the specialization of frameworks in the investigation of crimes committed in the exercise of public functions, such as corruption, speculation and abuse of power, the remunerative appreciation of the careers of professionals in the justice sector and the review of the lawyer's fees table. With the present levels of abstention, which we cannot fail to mention, and with no participation in political life by the electorate, at this moment we represent only the will of about half the population. The high rate of abstention has been, and will always be, a defeat for our democracy. We all need to be committed and develop tools that bring people closer to decision-making and participation in public life. Another of the major challenges of the next four years will be to adapt the political decisions to the climate crisis we face. We need a paradigm shift in the current model in which we live, based on a linear extractive perspective, for a new sustainable model, with the necessary energy transition and decarbonization, which reflects the way we produce and look at natural resources, that—we do not delude ourselves! — are finite. This economic model change should be reflected throughout the Government's programme and, above all, mirror in the budget to be discussed in this House, which discussion in which the NAP will participate very actively and constructively. We appreciate the recognition of our proposal to anticipate the closure of the Pego thermal power plants until 2021, and Sines until 2023, measured this crucial in the context of economic decarbonization. however, and on the National Barrage Plan and the justification of the Upper Thame as a complement to the closure of Sines and Pego, we reiterate that there are other energy production alternatives with less environmental impact, such as photovoltaic, viable solution for energy transition and economic growth in our country that would allow the creation of more than 20,000 jobs. As regards the exploitation of hydrocarbons, Prime Minister, it makes no sense that, at a time when we commit ourselves to the Carbon Neutrality Road, the intention to exploit oil in Portugal is maintained. We cannot allow the idea to continue to be sold to the Portuguese that the planet is waiting for us to adapt. And here, Mr. Prime Minister, the divergence does not begin in exaggeration but, yes, in the importance and recognition that is made to alerts that are given by the scientific community. And more: we have often heard that there is no planet B. Well, Prime Minister, there is not Portugal B either, and on our part we will do everything to prevent oil wells in our country. We also welcome the Government's acceptance in its Programme of the increase in the minimum age for the assistance of children and young people to Tauromachic shows, thus making the best interest of children to the lobby of the Tauromachia prevail and going to the meeting of those who are the recommendations of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child in this matter, as well as we welcome it for its intention to create the national animal supplier. These are important steps, but we need to go further. We need concrete measures and what we see is that, in animal protection matters, the Government's programme is still very short of what needs to be done, including starting with the end of the public financing of the Tauromachia, an activity that continues to survive on the account of the oxygen balloon which is public money or benefits from exemptions or reduced VAT, when, on the other hand, any family who takes care of a pet must pay 23 % VAT in order to bear the costs with its food or the way to the veterinary doctor. It is necessary to change the paradigm in how animals are treated and also in terms of monitoring and defending their interests, in addition to that, as long as we do not abolish certain practices like this or do not make our country advance in other areas of animal protection, such as the criminalization of ill-treatment and the abandonment of other animals other than pet animals, we will not be doing the necessary civil correction that is imposed in the way we continue to treat animals. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In order to be able to respond to the great challenges of the 21st century, we need more ambition, together with more capacity for dialogue and cooperation. Thus, at the close of the debate of the Government Programme, the NAP reiterates its willingness and willingness to work with the parties that make up this Chamber, seeking to find points of convergence that contribute to advancing the country towards the construction of a more just, human and sustainable society. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u13	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Prime Minister presented himself here yesterday with the greatest government ever in Portuguese history. Unfortunately for you, for us, for the Portuguese and for Portugal, quantity and quality are very different things. And if in the case of this government the number of members has hit all the records, the quality of policies will be, to which everything indicates, more than the same. We could see that in the numerous announcements and promises that Mr. Prime Minister brought us yesterday. For the transport sector, so mistreated, promises of means are raining: trains, buses and boats. For the health area, in which many Portuguese wait and despair, we heard promise the same hospitals that have already been guaranteed over the past four years. this time, moreover, peppered with first stones placed to elector see, as happened in the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, works that, it is good to remember, if the government had fulfilled the promises it made in the previous legislation would almost be finished and not announced. Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday that he knows he still needs to do more and better. You have, Mr. Prime Minister, much better and much better in my opinion! But because of the sample we heard yesterday, you're talking about propaganda, ads and speeches you think you need to improve even more. in practice and policies, to which everything indicates, we will have more of the same with this government. Also in the parliamentary panorama of the parties that support it, with more or less agreement, in a more or less explicit way, we have had the crumbs and reconciliations that have already become a reality in the past four years. We have seen them many and many times, so many that we even used to find normal scenes that very little has to be reasonable or advisable. It's the custom! When it comes to giving explanations or justifications, no one has responsibility and the blame is always on others. Above all, the former Government's apology continues to remain, now transformed into a government prior to the former Government. More than we've seen in the last four years! But it was also clear that management remains and that the agreement that they did not wish to sign in the past weeks will be signed very soon. This agreement will have a name, State Budget, and it is through it that the government and its allied parties will be responsible for politics, government and "more of it". Always, as is obvious, trying to pretend they don't do it and running away from responsibilities. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr. Deputy, you're agitated. I understand that the truth is sometimes uncomfortable, but you will have to listen to it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the same Prime Minister who affirms, with a seraphic air, that the government is responding to Parliament is the same as it has clearly left, and leaves, without answering the questions that the CDS asked him yesterday. And that is how Mr. Prime Minister categorically refused to respond yesterday to the CDS question on euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u16	As it has categorically refused to answer the CDS questions about security forces or the knowledge that your Government has had about the extraordinarily serious situations experienced in the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), an euphemism to describe what may have happened. Or Mr Prime Minister thinks that he should not explain this matter or think that these matters are not important. On the proposal submitted by the CDS which, while responding to the enormous doubts about the sustainability of ADSE, ends with the inexplicable and unacceptable differences between the Portuguese who have access to this system and the Portuguese to whom this access is sealed, the Prime Minister also did not want to clarify the position of the Government. It is incomprehensible that the Government does not respond and continues to block the study of this enlargement. What we realized yesterday was that when the question is uncomfortable, when it does not please, the government no longer responds to Parliament, it refuses. For Mr Prime Minister, Parliament is the parties that call it 'amen' and the Members are the ones who ask you the questions you want to hear. Mr. Prime Minister, the divergence is normal in democracy, but Parliament represents the nation and represents the people, and all Members are elected by the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] All Portuguese deserve their respect and deserve their answers. When we often wonder why Portuguese are moving away from politics, I wonder if anyone outside this Chamber realizes that Members have the right to ask questions and Mr Prime Minister has no obligation to answer them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u18	How sad is it, too, that Mr. Prime Minister, a recordist of the tax burden, hides behind sentences made to avoid a direct answer to this question so simple that the CDS has asked him: can he ensure that, with the same incomes, no Portuguese will pay more taxes next year? at the same time that it says that there will be no fiscal worsening on the middle class, it refuses to clarify whether the review, or elimination, of tax benefits and the inclusion it defends will or will not mean more tax revenue. And since tax revenue is another way of saying taxes paid and how taxes are paid by citizens, and not by extraterrestrials, however they try to deny it, the conclusion is obvious. Mr Prime Minister, the most important guarantee that he should have left here — the guarantee of a reduction in the tax burden and a reduction in taxes — he refused to give it. The CDS will not give up...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u19	That was a lapsus tongue!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u20	... to demand it, will not give up proposing and will not give up demonstrating that it is not only possible to reward those who work and to put the social elevator to work. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in the same way, we will not give up proposing measures that make the Portuguese economy a truly dynamic economy, which can compete with the most growing countries in the euro area, instead of being, as it is now, sadly disputing the last places of this ranking. And this, Mr. Prime Minister, because we know that Portugal is capable and that the only real way to have better wages is to produce more wealth. That is why this objective and, more than this objective, companies, entrepreneurs, who work hard to make it possible and create jobs, deserve more than the last places that Mr Prime Minister has reserved for them in his Government programme and in his debate yesterday. We have already put forward proposals to make our IRC (the income tax of the public) competitive and to have vocational training adapted to new times, professional skills and employment. [[Pause.]] I don't know if any government member wants to talk, because they're constantly away. I know that the parts are regiments but it agreed that the government bench had some respect for the speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u22	We believe in a State that respects citizens and a State that is respected, in a State that works with transparency, that does not interfere when the private initiative works, but, yes, that it is present and strong when it requires authority to guarantee the security and freedom of citizens. That is why we have not given up and have already presented our proposal for lobby regulation, as we will continue to persist in our measures to have a justice that works well, in time and time. in the same way, we have already presented a statute for the former combatants to guarantee the defence and recognition of the military who served the country, and also yesterday we have given an initiative so that the Government will definitely end the delays in processing, award and payment of old age and disability pensions, so that those who need the most do not have to wait indefinitely for a State that does not give them an answer after a lifetime of work. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal needs and deserves much more than « more than the same ». That is why the CDS has been here for 45 years, that is why the CDS does not give up and resist and is, above all, why we are here, for our country, for Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u23	I give the floor to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country lives today in a different situation than it had been four years ago, but a different situation which does not mean a substantially different country, since it remains marked by serious structural problems and significant delays in its development. The negative consequences of prolonged years of policy on the right of successive governments remain in national life and the country is far from having the policy it needs to overcome them. With our important and decisive contribution, it has been possible in the last four years to halt the national disaster that has been followed, defending, rest and gaining rights that were the real basis for economic growth, job creation and even budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u26	Measures have been taken to demonstrate the correct position of the CFP and to show that the development of the country is inseparable from the rise in living conditions of workers and the people, but what has been achieved, as we have always said, is of limited scope for the size of the problems facing the country. The response to social and regional inequalities, demographic deficit, patents delays in the development of productive forces and national production, to the manifest deficiencies of a State that should guarantee public services capable of implementing social rights, within the framework of a cohesion country, ensuring the protection of nature, environment and ecological balance, demands another policy. A policy that immediately passes through a policy of wage valuation, assumed as a national emergency, for a more fair distribution of wealth, for the fight against poverty, for the dynamisation of the national economy, to strengthen social security and ensure better pensions in the future and to stop the emptying of the country of qualified young people. A policy that requires, in particular, the general increase in wages and the national minimum wage for the €850, the fight against precariousness, the repeal of the serious standards of labour law, but also the general and real increase in retirement pensions, commitments which the Government does not make decisively. A policy that creates conditions to ensure free daycare for all children up to three years, by an ambitious programme of financing essential public services that require investment and the hiring of thousands of professionals; which goes through, inter alia, a strengthened National Health Service trained by investment in public transport, with a view to the urgent recovery and acquisition of trains, ships and buses and the strengthening of tariff reduction and extension of supply; that goes through the enhancement of artistic creation and cultural use, assuming the objective of achieving 1% of the State budget for culture and responding to the serious problem of access to housing. A policy that ensures that all young people can access the highest levels of education by betting in public school, strengthening school social action and putting an end to the tips in higher education; that goes through the expansion of social protection, with the strengthening of the public social security system, capable of ensuring the universalization and increase of the family allowance and the strengthening of social benefits; that goes through a dignified public administration, including the valorization of careers and the full recognition of the service time provided for the purposes of progression. in the programme presented by the Government of the PS does not see the full response to the fundamental problems of the country. This programme is structurally marked by the macroeconomic policy options that were present in the action of the former PS Government and which have conditioned the response to the country's fundamental problems; options that give priority to the deficit, to the detriment of investment and that maintain the privileges and conditions of domain of the large economic groups and capital on national life, to the detriment of the response to the problems of workers, the guarantee of social rights and the development of the economy as a whole; options that refuse a structural response to the problem of debt and that sacrifice the response to the problems of the country and the necessary training of the Public Administration; increasingly welfare options, to the detriment of justice options in the distribution of wealth, including in fiscal policy. It is a programme where measures are not adjusted to combat inequalities, but rather the maintenance of a degraded framework of labour rights and insufficient exploitation of wages and reforms. There is no answer, in terms of investment, to delay the development of public infrastructure and the dynamisation of national productive sectors. There is no measure that recovers for the public domain privatised companies that have long shown themselves unable to serve national interests and to ensure the provision of an effective public service to the people, as is the case with TTCs. It is a sufficiently vague programme of round and comprehensive formulation, so as not to commit itself, in particular, in many of its areas; a programme with formulations that indicate solutions of a negative sense—and even setbacks—in the areas of public administration, transport, the environment, day care, disabled persons, local power, the Armed Forces, among others. The Government programme that we are discussing today faces the great contradiction between what it proclaims and what it can truly achieve in the face of the option it makes, by keeping the external constraints and dogmas imposed by the Budget Treaty untouchable. The fixing of a permanent primary budget balance of 3 % of GDP, over EUR 6 billion, shows that what should be channelled to the development of the country will thus be diverted, almost entirely, to the payment of debt interest. It is evidence for which the solution of national problems cannot be answered in a policy subject to the constraints imposed by the European Union. It is unquestionable that Portugal needs other solutions, it needs a new direction with another policy, in breach of the nuclear issues of right-wing policy, which the PS has not abandoned. The need to implement a patriotic and left-wing policy, which has as essential axes the liberation of the country from submission to the euro and to the European Union's taxes, the renegotiation of public debt, the recovery of labour and workers, the defence and promotion of national production and productive sectors, the guarantee of the public control of the bank and of the basic and strategic sectors of the economy and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the cooperative sector, a policy guaranteeing public administration and services to the service of the people and the country, a policy of fiscal justice, protection of the democratic regime and the fulfilment of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, of justice accessible to all and the fight against corruption. These essential axes are lines of response to the country's problems and, at the same time, commitments that the CFP has made with the workers and with the people. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It will be from your programme and project that the CFP will develop its action, initiative and proposal. All the way forward and measures that correspond to the rights and aspirations of workers and the people can always count on the decisive intervention of the CFP, as well as any measures contrary to their interests will have our firm opposition. The CFP will develop its action to contribute to the solution of national problems and move forward with the force that the Portuguese gave it. Here we are to advance the conditions of life and the development of the country. This is the guarantee that workers and the people can give as they are right. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u27	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u28	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: A Government programme will prove-CL in its capacity to respond to the needs of the country and under political conditions for its implementation. And today this debate takes place in very different conditions than it was in eight years ago, but also in four years ago. Today we have not heard of the fact that income from work — wages and pensions — is a disgrace to an economy and can even bring devils. The path of the recovery of the last legislature has proved that it is in response to the needs of people who are strengthened by the economy and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u30	We have also not heard that with Bloco or PCP there are no government programmes and policies, which will only come about instability, because the path made proved that it is even the left-hand force that responds to the stability of people's lives improvement, protection of wages and pensions. And if in the last four years we have begun a turn to recover the country, in the debate of the Government Programme for the next four years, the question that matters is how to get to those areas of governance — and the economy — where recovery has not yet begun. The question of investment and recovery of public services is the priority. No investment will respond to the climate emergency or housing crisis; there is no transport without investment; there is no qualification without investment in culture and science. Access to health and education is today shaken by lack of investment, and the same is true of justice. And it is with the greatest concern that the investment commitments announced by the Government, the Programme and this debate do not go beyond what has already been decided in the previous Parliament. With more than 10 billion in four years we will not reach half the historical average, which was already low. It is true that the government commends the seeds we have launched together over the past four years, but it is not enough to bear fruit. There will be no certain accounts without sufficient investment and the challenges of this legislation will not be solved with excessive surpluses, which mean wasted investment. And this is the concrete life of people who wait for transportation and consultation, who despair with a wage that does not reach the end of the month. [[Congratulations from BE.]] If investment is one of the priorities in the country with one of the minimum — and medium — wages lower in Europe, surely improving labour income is the other priority. It is therefore strange that the Government will come to Parliament to evoke a great debate and legislative agreement for the recovery of wages, but it will only be done in social dialogue. Neither social consultation is a high chamber of Parliament, nor can Parliament be irresponsible of working conditions and wages in this country. It is here in the Assembly of the Republic that employment and labour income measures will have to be approved. The government is wrong by leaving the Programme for general purposes, reducing this parliamentary debate, which ends without a glimpse of the political commitments — so necessary — on work, on health or on investment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be said that government programmes only set out general lines and that knowing how the way is going will remain for other debates. There will certainly be much to be achieved, but this leads us to the other question: what path will the government take with this programme? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u31	With no absolute majority, the implementation of the Programme depends on negotiation. Four years ago, much of this negotiation took place even before the programme was drawn up, which enabled us to come to this debate and already know the instruments for its implementation. We have done so with the timing of the measures over time, with the common statement of priorities, strengthening the negotiation of each budget with months in advance, creating working groups to deal meticulously with the most difficult issues. This majority clarity and cooperation have been the strength of the last legislation. in this legislature the situation is different. The PS preferred to govern without majority agreements and thus obliged itself to seek timely support between opposition parties. I said here you want to do it on the left—well! There we will be for that negotiation. But, Prime Minister, the major priorities always involve multi-annual political determination. The Government has the responsibility to assume and clarify its goals for the legislature and every year of this legislature, and I fear that we can leave this debate without knowing what goals and ways to act. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On the urgency of betting in housing, the Government states in its Programme : « ensuring housing is commensurate with people with less incomes », « ensuring that middle classes can aspire to a decent housing » and « eradicating all housing deficiencies ». We're in full agreement. But how will he be executed? They do not guarantee 'condensed dwellings' without recovering the public housing park. Continue the programme of the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana) already in progress, and recover, in four years, 60 000 houses, half of the public housing park, requires an investment of EUR 150 million per year. ‘Eradicate housing shortages’ means — conservative numbers — to reallocate about 26 000 families, i.e. an investment of EUR 375 million each year. Finally, a public rental programme with the capacity to guarantee housing « to the middle classes» and regulate the market is not made with 2500 houses which the Government now announces for each year of the legislature, which does not even become symbolic. A consequent bet to lower the rental market prices, such as rehabilitating 100 000 houses to rent at an average price of €300, requires an investment of EUR 1500 million annually, which can be supported by credit available in the EIB ( European Investment Bank ) and recovered from the fifth year of the programme. This investment is necessary, it is extensive and is not provided for in the Government Programme. If it does not happen, we will not just waste time, we will be wasting the best chance of low interest to solve a structural problem in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u33	In addition — we know — this investment must combine the brake with the real estate funds and the end of the scraps of the "Crist Law" and of the privilege schemes — gold visas and unusual residents — which inflate the price of housing. [[Congratulations from BE.]] from the Left Block, you know the government that can count on all commitment to these answers. It remains to be seen whether the government wants to do or wait for the time that has passed. Let us look at another urgency of our day: to save the National Health Service ( SNS ). in the programme, the Government states the need to extend the SNS response, reduce waiting times, improve working conditions. We converged on these objectives once again. But how do you put them into practice? In order to reach 6 % of GDP (gross domestic product) in the Legislature for the National Health Service, in line with the European average, the money transferred from the State budget to the National Health Service must increase by at least EUR 500 million per year. The strengthening of primary health care requires providing health centres with psychologists, dentists and nutritionists, in addition to strengthening numbers of doctors and family nurses. In order to ensure the essentials and services of the SNS and to combat waiting lists it is necessary to give contracting autonomy to the institutions of the SNS, to open much more vacancies of expertise, to walk to full dedication, with negotiation processes of careers—including medical, nursing staff, TSDT (higher diagnostic and therapeutic technicians) and assistants—and to stop the passage of professionals and public resources to the private. The first step could well be to establish exclusivity for service directors by 2020. The Block here is on its way. But what is the government's concrete commitment? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, having goals is a starting point, then we need to have instruments and means. Decisive measures such as the fall in the price of the passes barre in the lack of transport supply, because the investment was not made in a timely manner. Free school textbooks throughout compulsory education do not delete a school year marked by the fragility of the public school, and the Block here is to rescue this public school in fundamental choices, know the country that can rely on the strength of the Left Block. Rescue the public investment in defense of the National Health Service, public school, science and culture; extend the rights and support in early childhood, ensuring that the complement of day care does not correspond to an income for private day care or replaces a path that creates public day care and integrated into the education system;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u34	... invest in housing and respond to the real estate crisis; implement the status of informal caregivers, ensure a law of personal assistance that respects the right to life independent of persons with disabilities;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u35	... to build equality without leaving anyone behind; to combat precariousness and temporary work; to guarantee the rights of shift workers; to increase wages and pensions; to rebuild the social state; to combat privileges and inequalities; to respond, by climate, to the climate emergency, guaranteeing the future of the planet to new generations: this is the mandate of the Left Block always, faithful to a clear program, without running away from commitments that count neither blank checks. A fairer country will not be the work of a year, not two, nor will it be the result of unbridled parliamentary equilibrium for major changes. A fairer country will not be made without disturbing those who live today of privilege. This legislation needs a greater determination to respond to wages, health and the environment. It's time to be demanding! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u36	The PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor, through Mr Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u37	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The Assembly of the Republic today concludes its assessment of the XXII Constitutional Government Programme. Unfortunately, the PSD cannot fail to regret that, for the first time, Members have not had a reasonable time to read and study the Government Programme in the way it is supposed to be done. It's very different doing good to do fast. Even because, as the people say, in their vast wisdom, « hurry and very little ago who». [[PSD applause.]] You have chosen this Parliament to act quickly. We don't understand the advantage and we see the disadvantage. The disadvantage is to do so-so when it could be done well. The credibility of the role of Member, which is so much talked about, requires that we always try to do good or at least the best we know and can. Unfortunately, against the PSD's will, it was not in accordance with the common sense that the Assembly of the Republic has always demonstrated in the same circumstances to date. There is, however, a positive point in this debate, which consists of the return to a certain democratic normality, the normality arising from the Government Programme being presented by a Prime Minister whose party was the most voted on in the elections, which justify their appointment. [[PSD applause.]] It is an appointment to lead a government that, however, has a negative record, a record that I personally would never have beaten: that of forming the largest government in the history of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] With 70 members, the new government forms six football teams and there are still four alternates left. [[PSD laughter.]] A great government is not synonymous with a great government. contrary to normal, in this case, the solution adopted is worse and more expensive, costs even more taxes to taxpayers and, most likely, will serve worse the country. Mr President, more than in your Programme, it is, above all, in the State Budget proposals that we will understand the reality and the options of government action. in this particular debate, there are aspects of government discourse quite different from what we understand that the country needs and there are others we would tend to agree with. However, with regard to the latter, we look at their execution with natural mistrust, with the very mistrust of those who have witnessed the last four years of governance and therefore tend to doubt that, from now on, everything can be the opposite. Our first difference is, of course, the strong priority that should be given to economic growth, i.e. to strengthen the competitiveness of our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u39	Without strengthening our external position, our ability to penetrate the international markets with the highest value added goods, Portugal will never be able to increase the quality of its jobs and the level of its wages to the level of the Community average. The government is required to choose small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as a privileged target of public policies with an impact on the economy. Supporting SMEs, in their modernization, in their internationalisation, in strengthening their own capitals or in the relief of the tax burden they bear must be the first element to open the path that the country has to pursue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u41	Regardless of the words, which the wind and time can take, historically few are the credits of socialist governance in this matter. Therefore, the likelihood that Portugal may, relatively quickly, have a standard of living consistent with the Community average may exist only to the extent that there is a likelihood of success in the Christmas lottery. in the primary sector of the economy, with an average age of Portuguese farmers around the age of 65, it is of vital importance a very firm and very consistent policy to capture young people. Without them, Portuguese agriculture has no future; without them, the interior will be further abandoned and the country weaker and poorer. Unfortunately, the government's option was to devalue the Ministry of Agriculture completely.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u43	in the sector of justice, where shortages abound and where efficacy does not exist, after a legislation marked by the relative injustice of the increase of judges salaries, the hope that we can walk to a faster, more transparent and more effective justice seems to have to be kept at the bottom of the trunk, waiting for better opportunity. [[PSD applause.]] Not only does the holder of the folder remain in office—and therefore nothing very different will have to be expected—as the political will of the government and the PS is clearly that of nothing daring to seek to do, in an area where dumping and courage will have to be nuclear elements for change. I personally recognize the value of the new Under-Secretary of State and Justice, but I fear that he will quickly be aware that he entered a train with coal and stop at all callees. However, the administrative and fiscal courts continue to take many years to decide; the procedural tricks continue to prevail; the execution and trade judgments to drag themselves, painfully, to the despair of the creditors; the courts to function without conditions; the criminal investigations to be shared in the public square, to the enjoyment of the opponents of human rights and the disillusionment of the democrats; and the corporateism to rule in the sector. [[PSD applause.]] in health, the government now promises to do everything. It is an area of the Program where we could even have points of agreement, since the Executive promises to do everything that not only did not just let it degrade itself into unimagined patamares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u44	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u45	It's just that our mistrust of PS's ability to do exactly the opposite of what you've done so far is more than sustained. We have little hope that this government can impose more accurate management criteria on health units: a better fight against the waste that exists in the sector, a substantial reduction in waiting lists for consultations and surgeries, or a large extension of the number of Portuguese with a family doctor. Public services in general, and health in particular, are the darkest nodes of socialist governance. The sweet words this program contains clash with the reality of four years of degradation of our public services. [[PSD applause.]] The Portuguese people gave the PS a renewed opportunity to do better and gave the PSD an unequivocal mandate to, as a greater party to the opposition, not compromise with the denunciation of government failures. That is what we will do about governance in general, but with particular attention to the quality of public services that the PS has so deteriorated. in the environment, we will all agree on the need to combat global warming and move rapidly towards carbon neutrality. This is not where there will probably be great differences as to the desired objectives. The same cannot be said when we hear the worrying news about how the lithium extraction business has been managed in the north of the country. It is necessary that this matter should be duly clarified, because the duality of criteria is not understood as regards the requirement of environmental impact studies, nor is it understood how rights are granted to a company with three days of existence and a minimum social capital for such a large business. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD Parliamentary Group will not allow this puzzle to be unravelled, because we believe that it is up to Parliament to politically clarify this business, which, at least, raises serious doubts about its transparency. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, it will be at the head of the State budget that will best take the path that this governance will take. however, if we look at the previous legislation and the text of this programme, we can hardly expect anything much better, until what the budgets have to have — and that this programme does not need to commit — are the requirements that the bride-to-be announced will make to accept the budget marriage. Whether in a mere casual dating, only one or two years old, in a de facto union more or less assumed, or in a solid and lasting marriage, in any circumstances, the groundwork for which the Government so long will necessarily have to have as its counterpart the happiness of this demanding bride. [[PSD applause.]] A wildly expensive person who will surely demand some financial gymnastics from his fellow socialist companion with the thin income he has, now that we no longer live times of great economic euphoria. It is in this framework that we will hardly be able to see improvements not only in the capacity and willingness to make reforms in the right direction, but also in the substantial reduction in tax pressure on Portuguese people or in the ability to control public expenditure without resorting to abundant and blind captivitys. We see how particularly difficult a government supported in Parliament by Communist ideology parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u46	The daddy you're scared of!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u47	... you can look at entrepreneurs as job and wealth creators, running away from the logic of their peers, who always tend to see them as holders of the capital that oppresses the working class and feeds the class struggle. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u48	Looks like Cavaco!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u49	Mr President, according to what I have always said and practiced, the PSD will carry out its function as the main party of the opposition. We will work together in everything that is positive for the country, we will denounce what is being misexecuted or forgotten, we will oppose-CL to everything that, in our view, may not serve the interests of Portugal. We will not be here to destroy or criticize everything others can do. The policy of the ‘bottom below’ lacks intelligence and it is up to those who do not move for the public interest but rather for their individual or party interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u50	Start wrong! Start the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u51	The PSD moves in the national interest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u52	So we will always obey reason, always face reality, with courage and truth. They are the ones that should guide us in political action. We will therefore be in obedience to the mandate which the people have given us, a constructive but harsh but incisive opposition, implacable to the failures of governance, because that is how we honour our mandate and better serve Portugal. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u53	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u54	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u55	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group wanted to make an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u56	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u57	Mr President, we would like to ask whether any motion to reject the Government Programme has been introduced. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u58	Mr, as referred to in Article 217. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, « Until the end of the debate,... »—which was yesterday — «...and without prejudice to it, any parliamentary group may propose the rejection of the programme or the Government request the approval of a vote of confidence ». It didn't happen one thing or another. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u59	Mr Rui Rio's intervention had left the question in the air! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u60	I now give the floor to the PS Parliamentary Group, in the person of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u61	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we close the debate on the Government's legislative programme now under way, a government programme that covers the programme lines of political action for a legislature. in its essence and in democracy, this programme has already been supported by the Portuguese and its debate in Parliament - it is intended to collect contributions that enrich it and guarantee a governance faithful to the electoral promises of those who, in respect for the election results, now assume the responsibility of governing it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of this debate, i.e. from yesterday's debate, three very impressive conclusions have been drawn. Firstly, when they voted, the Portuguese asked for political stability, strengthened the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and trusted that we would be able to maintain the political solution of the previous Parliament, regardless of the concrete way that this solution could take. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Four years ago, the parliamentary left was united by a constructive and alternative solution to austerity. Today, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is here to reaffirm that it continues to believe and work so that, over the next four years, the Government and Parliament will reach all the agreements that are necessary for people to feel that their lives are better, as a result of our political action. Too much importance has been given — still yesterday, by the voice of the parliamentary leader of the Left Block — whether or not there are written papers and commitments to the legislature. All these are just questions in a way, because what counts, the essential thing, is to know where we will stand at the moment when we have to choose measures that change people's lives to give them greater dignity and more rights. It is important to know which side each of us will be at the time of valuing the wages of workers; at the time of adopting the measures, which are imposed, of fiscal justice; at the time of giving a new impetus to public investment, which enables us to create jobs and wealth; at the time of investing more in public services; at the time of continuing to guarantee social protection; at the time of defending the public housing policies that are required; at the time of defending the reconciliation of family life with professional life; or even at the time of investing more in the qualification of Portuguese, to have greater competitiveness in the economy and greater development of the country; and at the time of dealing with climate emergency. Then we will see that we are all fully interpreting the mandate that the voters have entrusted to us. We trust it to be so. This programme deserves our support because it pursues a clear path of compatibility between social justice and rigour in public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some don't want to hear, some don't want to see, but the commitments are clear and concrete. Yesterday, they were widely said in the speeches given in the debate of the Government's Programme, and they were also said in the Prime Minister's statement of possession. in this debate, it was clear the need for this compatibility of paths and it was clear that, without it, we would question all that we have achieved in the previous legislation. On the left, we know exactly what differences between each of us, but the success of the previous government solution has been in our joint capacity to converge essentially. Together we refuse austerity and I am sure that together we will be able to build the paths of convergence that the voters demand from us. Does this mean that we will not, in some measures, count on other parties, in particular with the PSD or the CDS? Of course not. There will be issues with national consensus, of which no Democrats will be able to resign, and there are matters, such as Europeans, for example, where it is known that the PSD has had a Europeanist position — which we hope will not abandon — which is closer to what we have defended, the position of those who do not see a threat in the European Union but rather an opportunity. This is also the case in many areas, such as national defence, Community financing, decentralization and social cooperation. Nor is there anything new in this, so it was in the previous Legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u63	They will say to me that I am optimistic, but, in this case, an optimistic woman is only a person who listens carefully to what the Portuguese have said by voting: yes to a Government of the Socialist Party; but to which the PS and the progressive partners in this Parliament work to improve their lives; yes to social dialogue; and yes to the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] the discussion of yesterday highlights the conviction that there is a way to walk and there are more bridges to build. The dialogue will continue to be privileged to respond to the remaining problems and to respond to our citizens in the House of Democracy. On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I tell you: PS Members are willing to continue to work for a positive left-wing majority in Portugal and have the ability to find solutions to the remaining problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, what points out is that the right has been absent in this debate. The question is this: where was the right in the Government's programme? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. The PSD looks angry with the PS but, truly, it's still angry with the Portuguese. in fact, the Portuguese also remain angry with the PSD and do not forget what he did to them during those four years of governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u64	Good, good! ...that's what Socrates did!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u65	Mrs. Members, instead of coming to debate with ideas, with concrete proposals and even criticisms of the Government Programme, the PSD has hidden itself in an attempt not to exist in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u66	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u67	But strong governments need strong oppositions and democracy enriches with the alternative of different projects for our society. On the other hand, where was the CDS? The CDS remains in a state of denial about reality. Not a new proposal and always the same criticisms as the facts lie, whether in the increase in taxes, who knows that it has not happened and that it will not happen in this legislature, whether in economic growth, in which it insists against numbers, or in investment in public services. In short, we have a right here to reinvent ourselves and understand the reality in which we live to present concrete proposals. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] A right without animistic force to reinforce the debate of ideas, a right that continues to be constituted by parties seeking a program, hostages of pessimism and criticism, now gentle, now allegedly overwhelming, but without presentation of new paths to Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The third conclusion is that this is indeed a government programme for a new cycle, with a new ambition. We must respond to today's demanding challenges, which we are facing in Portugal and in the world, and for that, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear programme, which has been presented to the Portuguese in time, which opens the way for understanding and for the formation of positive majority. This programme deserves our full support because it pursues a clear path of compatibility between social justice and the rigour of public accounts. in the last four years, we have reverted pay cuts and returned rights to the most vulnerable, but now is the time to continue to reduce inequalities, it is time to continue improving wages and public services, it is time to support the middle classes, which are the strength of democracy and have been counted among the victims of the austerity period. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore welcome the ambition that social consultation with the Government will achieve, after 23 years, the first income agreement that rebalancing in favour of workers a imbalance that has harmed them in all sectors of the economy, because we believe that decent work involves better wages, more collective bargaining, more rights at work and greater reconciliation between professional and family life. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is time to value the positive contribution of migrants to our future; it is time to innovate in a transition economy for digital society, which is becoming increasingly competitive; it is time to respond to the climate emergency, which requires not always easy or understood measures. It will not always be easy to decarbonise the industry and adopt the new ways of life that this adaptation requires, but we can proudly say that we have already started this path in urban mobility, with remarkable success, but we must take this adaptation to other areas, from the efficient use of water to agriculture. We need to continue to invest more in health. The Government must not forget that today one of the greatest anxieties of Portuguese people is their health. As your representatives, we will be here in this Parliament watching that the Government Programme, which was discussed yesterday and which contained a very significant set of measures in this area, is effectively implemented, as we have done in the past, and here we will be to give shape to our promises. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u68	Pure emptiness! Empty words.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u69	And let the right unravel: we are even for the National Health Service, we are for public health and it is in improving public health that we place all our energy. It is our priority! It is time to work for a better future and build new opportunities for Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, with pride, we are the parliamentary group which unequivocally supports the government. We have pride in the government's work over the past four years and we have confidence in the work that the new government will do over the next four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are, with responsibility, a parliamentary group that will build all the necessary bridges in the House of the Mother of Democracy so that the platform in which the Government is based will be majority. Take the measure, debate the debate, we will be here to work with the government and the democratic forces represented in Parliament. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are, in consistency, the parliamentary group that will not abdicate its own proposals, because the Portuguese did not entrust the PS with just one mandate to govern, they also entrusted us with a mandate to exercise legislative power in this Parliament, which no socialist Member may renounce. We are, with hope, a parliamentary group that you are doing today — because this is our first debate — the invitation to all democratic forces to work together, so that Parliament will continue to be respected by the citizens. The Portuguese voted in stability and this parliamentary group will do everything to honour the mandate. Mr. Prime Minister, the PS Parliamentary Group is made up of women and men who believe in their vision for the legislature and who hope that they will continue to lead a government whose first priority is people. We count on you, count on us. As has often been said but it is never too much to underline, together we will achieve it. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes. To close the debate, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the passage of the Programme in the Assembly of the Republic and the consequent entry into full functions of the XXII Constitutional Government, the second stage of the path has been taken since 2015. This path is marked by a fundamental objective: convergence. Portugal needs at least a decade of convergence with the European Union. We are now reaching the middle of that decade. We are concerned about the best European standards in several key areas: the growth of gross domestic product and part of this growth due to exports and private investment; the creation of employment and the reduction of unemployment; the consolidation of the budget and the stability of the financial system; the reduction of school dropout, the improvement of learning and the accessibility of higher education; health care; the reduction of inequalities and the risk of poverty and social exclusion. We are better than the European average in such crucial areas as peace, security and public tranquility, integration of migrants, the promotion of renewable energy, the road map for economic decarbonisation, the sustainability of social security, humanitarian law and openness to the world. And we need to do more and better to get closer to the European average performance in productivity, wages and income, innovation, technology, business management qualification, adult training, and the fight against gender violence. Convergence is therefore the orientation that the government is guiding because that is the best way to continue to build a sustainable path of development and prosperity for all. at the same time, the Government Programme responds to strategic challenges that are our own or that take on specific tones among us: climate change, demographic challenge, digital transition and equality, within the framework, well understood, of certain accounts and demanding governance, promoting the participation of civil society, the efficiency of administration, the transparency of the state, the fight against bureaucracy and corruption. The promotion of convergence in the European Union and the response to the challenges of the near future are the two drivers of government action, in the continuity of the change already undertaken and of the work already done, the fruits of which were so clearly recognized by the Portuguese in the elections of 6 October. This dual objective, convergence and response to strategic challenges, cannot be achieved with blind austerity policies, with the weakening of the social state, with the reduction of people's rights, particularly workers' rights, nor can it be achieved with financial irresponsibility, such as the one in which everyone incurs only demands or promises low taxes at the same time that demand or promise the increase in expenditure or the expansion of investment and public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The main cleavage line in this Parliament is here. Here is the fracture between this Government and this parliamentary majority on one side and the other on the right side of the Hemicycle. Yesterday we had the opportunity to see the absolute silence of the leader of the major opposition party on any of the strategic challenges we have to face. on the other hand, we have heard him confess that he seemed to be cast to continue an increase of the national minimum wage up to €750. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That silence about the strategic challenges and this confession about the rice that means thinking of 750 € of national minimum wage synthesize the program of the parliamentary opposition: indifference to the fundamental problems and belief convinced in the alleged solutions that sum up reducing rights and cutting income,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in summary, look back, to a world where one imagines that weddings are built with brides and skirts. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Mr. João Oliveira ( PCP ). - There are still people who love the window!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u72	With an aunt watching! The convergence we want to pursue and the strategic challenges to which we want to respond call for political stability, programme clarity, budgetary rigour and public policies geared to economic and employment growth, improved income, strengthened social functions of the State, investment incentives, modernisation of administration. But if this orientation distinguishes us well from the opposition, which, in this Parliament as in the previous one, is on the right, we cannot lose sight that it contains an essential requirement: the framework of our policies in the European area and, in particular, in the euro area, with respect for the rules and commitments taken. It was precisely anti-austerity policies, returning rights and income, stimulating investment and consumption, lowering taxes and bringing confidence to economic agents, which finally enabled us to meet the objectives of the deficit, reduce public debt and restore the country's international credibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was this ability to carry out alternative policies to the revenue of the troika, within and outside the framework of our European obligations, which allowed the Portuguese to spend less on interest, save on the IRS and to have more favourable conditions for financing the state, businesses and families than ever before. The Government, which has improved people's incomes, has restored institutional normality and has combated job insecurity and is now proposing to go further in the provision of public services, social protection, human resources qualification and the modernization of the economy, with a reformist and progressive agenda, is exactly the same Government fully committed to European integration and fully respecting the commitments inherent in that integration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have not moved forward in the past despite the restrictions of the European Union, but because we have been able to defend our interests and views within the European Union. We will not move forward in the future, even though we are in Europe, but because we are in Europe and actively contribute to the future of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The convergence programme is therefore a comprehensive and systematic programme. It's not enough to distribute. To distribute with justice and fairness we need to create wealth with knowledge, innovation and productivity. It's not enough to want to move forward. To move forward sustainably we need to continue step by step, with caution and safety. It is not enough to invoke the people. In order to mobilize citizenship and economic and social actors, we need to respect the balance between institutions, practice social dialogue, stimulate collective bargaining, and constantly follow a line of negotiation, agreement and commitment. This is our agenda, progressive and reformist. This is our method, Europeanists, credibles and supporters of gradualism, dialogue and understanding. That is the nature of this government and its Programme, and that is its purpose, and that is its direction. It is therefore not expected from the Government to read another popular mandate if it is not this: strengthening social and political conditions to continue the path that we started to take in 2015,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...in a European and international framework possibly more complex, more uncertain, but with confidence in the Portuguese economy, in the capacities of Portuguese, in our collective desire to progress. I would make a huge mistake of analysis if I thought that the Socialist Party and its Government would withdraw from the election results the idea that we would now try to maneuver tactically, looking at every moment for the balances necessary for survival, in a catch-pice logic, maneuvering around here or there, depending on the needs and opportunities of each occasion. It'll be exactly the opposite. We will ensure the continuity of the change started in 2015, with a strategic direction, without fears or oscillations, without deviations or hesitations. That is what the electorate told us, that is what we will do: consistently and systematically respond to strategic challenges, with our programme and our course. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to meet the demands of our fellow citizens: to maintain the course, to do more, to do better, with consistency and sense of responsibility. But we will also be able to respect and take advantage of the political conditions arising from the free choice of the sovereign people, as this Parliament expresses them. on October 6, the electorate took several fundamental options that will guide us in the next quadriennium. The first option was to significantly strengthen the influence of the Socialist Party as a leading party in the Portuguese political process. The second option of the electorate was also significantly to reduce the political influence of the parties of the centre-right and the parliamentary right. The third option was to strengthen the progressive majority in the Assembly of the Republic, whose logic of understanding and partnership allowed political stability that was the basis of the success of governance in the previous legislature. The fourth option was to create an opportunity for this majority to include new partners or strengthened partners. This Government and its Programme are the most direct consequence of the first decision of the electorate — strengthening the PS and its project. As far as the second decision is concerned, I also read it as an opportunity for the parliamentary opposition of the centre-right and right to be able to find its way again, a task which only it is responsible for but which democracy needs, because democracy is strengthened by the credibility of the alternatives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u73	The robustness of the progressive parliamentary majority, under conditions that continue to demand understanding between parties of different nature and guidelines, has an obvious meaning that none of us can ignore: it invites a fruitful and continuous dialogue, capable of guaranteeing governmental stability throughout the entire legislature, which is — we all know! — essential condition for the success of the social agenda. And the fact that we can now count on new partners, or stronger partners, with a strategic orientation that is consistent with ours does not stop enriching the quality and increasing the effectiveness of the parliamentary majority. All these conditions must be taken into account in our action. First of all, these parliamentary conditions are defined for the legislature, i.e. they are valid until the electorate decides again on national representation and governance. They are parliamentary conditions and the government responds to Parliament. They do not depend on subsequent decisions in other political venues such as those which during this same legislature the electorate will be called upon to take successively in presidential, autarchical and regional elections. There will be absolutely essential areas for the quality of our democracy, the tranquillity and mutual respect in our society and the permanence of our values in which, I am sure, virtually the whole Parliament will be united. I am referring to the need to maintain this huge advantage of Portugal, which is to be a country in which national-populism and xenophobia have no relevant social and political expression. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] Unlike yesterday and today, it is appropriate that the centre-right should not be dragged by the logic of insinuations, personal attacks, tobacco language, cases and homes, the obsession with reducing the rules and judicial institutions... [[Mr Duarte Marques's laughter.]] ... and disrespect for the editorial independence of public television, because the center-right may feel that it thus takes away space of manoeuvre to the extreme right, but in practice, what it does is to feed it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] in other areas, also very important for our internal policy and for geopolitical positioning and international influence, we will have, in this legislature, as we have already had in the past, and as recently recalled the parliamentary leader of the PS, the necessary understandings for sovereignty policies to have the continuity that gives them coherence and strength and for the main national guidelines, on defence and security, European policy and foreign policy, to have the amplitude of inter-party and inter-institutional support, so regularly recognized and envyed by our international partners. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will also cultivate, as in the past, the same demand for commitments and broad understandings on other long-term agendas of public policies, from health to housing, to ensure the sustainability of the basic guidelines, in addition to the natural alternance of governments. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Thereafter, decisions that affect people's lives do not only take place in parliament. Pluralist democracy is the balance regime and this government will continue to cultivate, even more and more, cooperation with all other political and social institutions and actors — scrupulous respect for the powers and words of the President of the Republic, day-to-day cooperation with the two Autonomous Regions and all municipalities, regardless of party colors, in order to deepen regional autonomy and continue the great avenue of decentralisation. It will develop cooperation with social dialogue, involvement in social dialogue and with each of the partners who constitute it, constant incentive to collective bargaining, including this task, absolutely priority in today's days, which is to defend unionism, to defend professional associivism against the more or less underground attempts to overthrow, manipulate and colonize by radical and violent agendas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All this is true, and we make it a matter of remembering it today, and here. But it is no less true that parliamentary democracy is the regime of clear alternatives, in which there is a government and an opposition, in which there is a majority and a minority. Circumstantially, always, certainly, but, in every concrete circumstance, there is a majority and there is a minority, there is a government and an opposition. However, by unequivocal decision of the Portuguese, the opposition lies, in this as in the previous Parliament, on the right side of the Hemicycle. There is no need to say 'critical, but not reprobate', 'disputing, but not rejecting', 'because the Government's agenda, the programme for convergence, demographic, climate, digital and equality priorities, concern with the right accounts, the modernization of the administration, the strengthening of the State, unfortunately do not have sufficient relevance to the agenda of the right and right, nor the method and the measures we choose to achieve such priorities are the orthodoxy that the welcomes of 'go beyond the troika' and the lovers of the case policy so repulsibly still cultivate. This opposition, which is consumed in the wars of alecrim and eating between centrists and right-wing, conservative and liberal, is a minority in Parliament. It is more minority today than in the previous legislation. And, as in the previous legislation, but now more forcefully, there is a majority committed to political, social and environmental advances, a majority of different parties, each with their identity and representativeness, each sovereign in their choices, but who have already shown a capacity for dialogue, approximation and understanding. The Government believes that there is now even more reason to develop this dialogue, to continue this approach and to achieve that understanding. There is a reason that comes from the parliamentary composition that the electorate has built. There is a reason that comes from the expectations that the success of the previous work, quite legitimately, has consolidated with people. There is the underlying reason for the uncertainties of the European and international situation, present and the near future. But there is, above all, this simple, clear, obvious reason that we now know better and we know, of certain science, that broke the wall that prevented communication between the left, that failed the border that excluded part of the left of the responsibility to contribute to the governance of the country and that it is necessary and possible to dialogue, that it is necessary and possible to converge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Converging does not mean dilute, ignore or devalue differences. It does not mean to reduce the diversity of views of the world and the interests represented, much less cancel. It does not mean suspending or disguise the live and frank debate. It does not mean trying to impose, submit or condition the part. It does not mean that we should first acquire what has to be laboriously successful in dialogue and negotiation, budgeting, proposal for a proposal. on the contrary, we will not converge in everything, we will often present counter-proposals, we will conflict in critical points. But there is a lesson and a warning from the recent past that the electorate incorporated and suffrage without any margin for doubt. The lesson is that when partners dialogue without reservations and to achieve results, partnerships work and results are achieved. The warning is that, in this parliamentary composition, by sovereign decision of the Portuguese people, it is only possible to withdraw the basic conditions of government to the Government of the Socialist Party by establishing a negative and counter-natured coalition between the centre-right and the right and all forces to the left of the PS. And we all know, in most parliaments, that this will certainly not happen. If that were to happen, it would be a betrayal to our electorate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In this House of the Republic, the Portuguese put a majority committed to the progress of the country, the progress of the rights, incomes, services and functions of the State, the economy, science and culture, climate action, territorial cohesion, the progress of decentralization, gender equality, the progress of housing conditions, mobility and well-being. The invitation I would like to make, on behalf of the Government, is that we know how to take advantage of the possible convergence in this broad and heterogeneous range of political-parliamentary forces which constitute, today, the majority in this House, in order to advance, even better and better, more forcefully, more strongly, in the country's convergence with the best European practices, a progressive convergence for the convergence process in Portugal, and that is what the voters sovereignly made possible. We knew to be able to do so, in favour of Portugal and for the Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-31.u74	We have thus reached the end of the debate on the XXII Constitutional Government Programme, which is now in the full range of functions and to which I wish good work. I would like to announce that we will have a plenary meeting next Wednesday, 6 November, for 15 hours, which will still be distributed today. Thank you very much for the cooperation of all in this debate. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 1 minute.]]
