ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the galleries to the public. Before we begin the debate of the Appeal to the Government No 30 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — General policy centred on the lack of staff in public services under Article 227. the Regimento, Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will proceed to the reading of the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 1237 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the system of access to law and courts by repealing Law No 34 / 2004 of 29 July 2004 and Parliamentary Assessment No 147 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 65 / 2019 of 20 May, which mitigates the effects of the freezing occurred between 2011 and 2017 in careers, positions or categories where the progression depends on the course of a given period of service. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u3	We will initiate the debate of the Interpellation to the Government No 30 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — General policy focused on the lack of staff in public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u4	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u5	For what purpose, Mr Adam Silva?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u6	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u7	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u8	Mr President, we take very seriously the petitions made to the Government, particularly in this area, about general policy focused on the lack of staff in public services. It happens, however, that this question has something unusual, because the PSD Parliamentary Group has not been timely and properly informed about which government members who would be here today to respond to Members. We now see a wide range of sectors and government members talking about these matters. Mr President, I would like to say to you that, although the PSD Parliamentary Group is prepared, with the Members duly appointed to make inquiries to the Government, this results not from the information which should have come from the Government, but from the generous information which Mr João Oliveira gave me around 7 a.m. today. Mr President, in conclusion, I wanted to say that this situation cannot happen and that this issue is too important to be taken with this lightness and this lack of information. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u9	I wonder if any of the representatives of the Government would like to answer this question. [[Pause.]] Mr Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u10	Mr President, I would like to say to Mr. Adam Silva that the criticism you have made is recorded. I assume you should have informed all the banks about the situation that you have identified. However, there is no inhibition for the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, ask questions as to which matters. The Government has every opportunity to answer all the questions it raises.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u11	Let us now begin the debate of the Interpellation to the Government No 30 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — General policy focused on the lack of staff in public services. At the opening of the debate, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we want to record as very negative the absence of ministers in this debate. Moreover, we also say: if the Government considers that, by not bringing ministers to this discussion, it is avoiding its responsibility and the confrontation with the CFP, we will be here to do this discussion, demanding answers and resolutions regarding the hiring of professionals in need. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be because of the lack of ministers in this debate that we will no longer bring concrete examples of the urgency and responsibility of the Government, of each of the ministers, of the Minister of State and Finance, in solving these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A public service exists to serve users. A private service or a PPP (public-private partnership) exists to serve the shareholders, with the profit generated by the provision and exploitation of that public service. However, if a public service exists to serve the users, the first and essential condition is the existence of workers who carry it out, the second condition being their existence in an appropriate number, valued and respected in their rights. Today, in this Chamber, no one has the courage to deny the serious shortage of professionals in public services, but it has not always been so. Until a few years ago, we were tired of hearing how to shout against the so-called existence of more civil servants and the unbearable weight of the Public Administration in the accounts of the State. Memory is short, but guilt cannot die single. In 2002 the PSD/CDS then approved freezing measures for admissions to the Public Administration. In 2006, the PS Government then extended this freeze to the Armed Forces, the military, the security forces, the non-teaching staff of basic, secondary and higher education. Even in 2006, the rule « go out two, enter one » was imposed, which means that this rule has literally been going for 13 years to damage public services and compromise responses to populations. As if the situation was not bad enough in 2011, the previous PSD/CDS government did not waste time or opportunity and raised the targets of the reduction of workers in the Public Administration. In 2013 he imposed a collective dismissal program in the euphemistic public administration called « requalification ». Only at the Social Security Institute were 700 workers dismissed, even people with disabilities, with permanent functions and indispensable to the operation of services. In 2014 they applied specific rules in the State budget for « worker recruitment control », as if any pest was concerned. He also stated: « The services of direct and indirect administration of the State, the Assembly of the Republic, the courts and the Ministry of Public Affairs could not open competitive procedures with a view to the establishment of public employment legal relations for an indefinite period of time, determined or determined, for general or special careers and careers that had not yet been the subject of extinction ». The more than a decade of freezing and limitations in contracts added to the round ban on hiring professionals for public services and, by the way, followed the script for state reform, which aimed to privatize all social functions and, with this, public services, leaving out only the courts, the defense and the diplomatic body. No, any relationship with the aim of reducing the number of workers to degrade services and justifying their privatization was not mere coincidence. With the defeat of the PSD/CDS government and the change in the correlation of forces in Parliament, the PCP has fought a lot for the reversal of this path of reduction of professionals and for the hiring of all who are missing in the services, for the fight against precariousness and for the replacement and conquest of the rights of employees of the Public Administration. [[Protests of the Conceição Bessa Ruão.]] No one is unaware that the effects of decades of ban and limitations on contracts have been very profound, but this only requires more speed and effectiveness in the solutions that are taking place. In fact, to take responsibility for the replacement of 35 hours of work to justify the lack of professionals is a total waste. The replacement of the 35 working hours — which you have included, in fact, with the vote against the PSD and the CDS — is not the problem. The hiring of more professionals is the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u16	And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, before they come with the cry of approval of the State budgets, we say that the problem was not their approval, it was their realization and compliance: the unnecessary captives; the funds provided for in the budgets of the ministries that have never been executed; the failure to comply with articles on contracts. There are measures to contract that give the Government conditions for unlocking them, either at the level of contracts, or at the level of opening tenders for various services such as the Judicial Police, the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ), the professionals of INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ), the professionals of mental health teams, the family doctors, the inspectors of the Labour Conditions Authority, among others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The solution is not to close, it is to hire. The solution is not to close the motherhoods of Beja and Faro, as we denounced in the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister this week, and now advancing the same to the obstetric emergencies in Lisbon. The solution is to immediately hire all professionals in need: doctors, nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, auxiliaries of medical action. Can users accept that the lack of diagnostic and therapeutic techniques prevent the treatment of cancer patients at Santa Maria Hospital? Can users live with the threat of imminent closure of the pediatric emergency at Garcia de Orta Hospital, due to the lack of pediatricians? Or with the postponement of surgeries at the Hospital Pulido Valente for lack of anesthetists? Or with the lack of professionals to ensure the full functioning of INEM? Can users be transported as canned sardines when 30 % of the CP fleet is inoperative due to lack of maintenance? The government has already admitted more than 100 workers in the EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company) but does not hire them! There are no workers in all areas. In 2009 the Lisbon Metropolitan had 1641 workers, today with more stations and more users, has less than 233 workers. In the area of justice, the situation is equally serious. In 2014, historical minimums were reached in the number of judicial officials. Today there are about 1,000 vacant places to fill. In the security forces and services and in the prison guards, progress has been made towards the previous government, but they are far from meeting the needs, as the freezing in admissions comes from 2002. Can people, after a lifetime of work, wait months in line for their retirement pension? You can't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't, sir. Members of the Government. The solution is not to close, grant or privatize. The solution is to hire! It is inappropriate to hire professionals and ensure investment for the quality of public services. Where there has been a lack of recruitment of professionals, it has remained to meet the deficit and requirements of the European Union. Where you have missed to invest in public services, you have remained in the interest accruals of debt. Where you have missed to value careers and increase salaries in Public Administration, you have remained for the financial system. The hiring of all the professionals in need is unacceptable and this solution is in the hands of the Government. He may well come now to say that in his Government Programme he will provide for the hiring of more public servants. They need it now and they've been missing over the last few years! Mrs. Members, the economic groups were leaping, as they witnessed the degradation of public services and, in particular, the National Health Service, with the business opportunity they created from there: in transport, in the National Health Service, in social security, among others. The degradation of public services serves private people! The degradation of public services does not only serve users and the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u18	What the country needs is not submission and follow-up on economic criteria and budgetary surpluses. What the country needs is concrete and immediate measures for the serious problems that are being posed. The Government has not lacked the strength of the Members of the CFP to take action. The Government has not failed approval, including in the State budgets,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u19	There were four of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u20	... of the proposals and initiatives that could have solved these problems. What has failed the government is, unfortunately, the political will to resolve. There are money and rules in the State budget that point to this and there is absolutely no reason for the government to set targets for the deficit to meet the needs of users and public services. Populations, workers and the people are worth much more than the goals of the deficit. It is dignity in your lives that we talk about and it is solutions that we need. The Minister of Finance may not be here today, but on the side of the CFP we will continue to fight here and outside for the valorization of public services, for the rights of employees of the Public Administration and for a developed and sovereign country. Here we are going to do this fight, because this is a central fight for the development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u21	You have the floor, also at the opening of the debate, the Government, through the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Maria de Fátima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Government comes to account for the human resources of the Public Administration by the voice of several of its members. And we do this by presenting facts, because it is undeniable that this government has gone along a path of valorisation and training of the Public Administration to better serve the country, a path made of fulfilling the clear commitments taken in its Programme, with security and with balance, with weighted options and taken according to the good performance of the economy, with evaluation of the country's capabilities in the present and in the future, in social dialogue, valuing the role of workers' representatives. in this legislature, the government has assumed the recovery of a critical period in the Public Administration and has been fulfilling, without creating unrealistic expectations among the workers, without promising everything to everyone, without promising today what the past has shown is not possible to fulfill. What we promise to achieve: the reversal of wage cuts; the replacement of 35 hours; the replacement of the value of extraordinary hours; the defrosting of careers, which already covers more than 400 000 workers. And we managed to go further by raising the salary base in the Public Administration to €635. For these reasons, in January 2019, the value of the average monthly base remuneration of employees in the Public Administration had a positive variation of 7 % compared to 2011, and 5 % compared to 2015. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to the remuneration of workers, the government has waged in the quality of employment. PREVPAP ( The Special Regularization Program for Pre-Care Bonds in Public Administration ) is the largest example of this. With a systematic, participated and individualised process and with the work of the two-party evaluation committees practically completed, more than 72% of favourable opinions have already been issued. At the end of the first quarter of 2019, 75, 9 % of workers were in the form of an indefinite contract. In terms of counterparts, the term contracts were reduced and, when compared with the December 2012 data, recorded a breakdown of 12, 2 %. This trend is also decreasing in service provision contracts with a breakdown of 6, 7 %. The number of public servants increased by more than 30 000 by 2015, representing employment growth in public administrations by 4.7 %, approaching 2012 figures. In public services, we define as priority areas of investment education and health. In the area of education, the government has provided schools with more human resources. With regard to the teachers, the train standard was changed, which went from five to three successive contracts, and in four years two extraordinary links were made, in a total of more than 7000 teachers, 11 000 teachers were repositioned and more than 40,000 progressed with the defreezing of careers. In the case of non-teaching workers, 1067 operational assistants and more than 3,000 operational assistants were hired between the Ministry of Education and authorities through indefinite contracts. The review of the non-teaching staff portfolio strengthened the criteria for the allocation of operational assistants in schools, especially in pre-school education and to accompany children and young people with special educational needs. In health, in less than four years, comparing December 2015 with April 2019, we increased the number of SNS ( National Health Service ) professionals in 10 800 effective — 10 800 effective! There are over 4000 doctors, plus 4400 nurses, plus 600 superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, among other health professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u24	The SNS has today the greatest work force ever: there are more than 6400 workers than before the start of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 130 800 professionals who worked at the SNS in April 2019 were harmonized with the normal working period of 35 hours, between public employment contracts and individual employment contracts, covering about 31 000 workers. The conditions for the allocation of incentives to geographical mobility for deprived areas have also been improved and more than 350 doctors benefit from them and will benefit this year more than 150 doctors. We went further, with a cross-cutting bet in all races. And it cannot fail to be so, because the average age of workers in public administrations is 47.4 years, having increased 3.4 years compared to the end of 2011, which translates the clear ageing of public administration workers. This is an unmistakable subject that we have to address. And it was in this line that we defined in 2019 a quota of 1000 qualified workers, to be recruited in a centralized procedure, which will be launched very soon, to reconstitute and revitalize the technical body of the Public Administration, betting in the strategic areas of the State, recovering its critical mass and strengthening its competences. For this reason, the Regulation of the Advanced Training Programme for Public Service Workers will be published shortly, replacing the course that provided a paid entry to the Public Administration. This programme has collected the contributions of the trade unions and the General Training Council and will provide high levels of qualification to ensure responsiveness to public services, including, of course, workers already in office. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All measures taken for public administration represent an additional expenditure effort of EUR 800 million per year in 2018 — EUR 800 million per year! Today, there are more workers in the Public Administration, and these workers had their average gain increased in this legislature. Measures have been taken to promote safety and health at work. Mechanisms have been set up for participatory and positive management. To say that public services work worse is to deny the strengthening of 1600 million euros annually, between 2015 and 2019, in health. It is a reinforcement that enables to reach the maximum value of ever and more than to compensate for the reduction of EUR 1000 million made during the previous legislation. With the conclusion of the 400 vacancies for general and family medical doctors, if all candidates accept the positions in which they are left, 98 % of Portuguese will have a family doctor, the highest coverage rate ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Between May 2018 and May 2019, more than 190 000 consultations were conducted in primary care and more than 140 000 consultations in hospital units than in the previous period. In education at the beginning of the 21st century, Portugal still had a 45% rate of early school dropout, a number which in 2018 dropped to 11, 8 %. The secondary education rate is 52, 5 % in 2019, compared to 37, 4 % in 2011. The retention rate No 12. the school year, in 2016 / 2017, was 25, 7 %, when, in 2011 / 2012, it was 35, 3 %. About 45% of Portuguese 20-year-olds already attend higher education. In social security since the beginning of 2019, more 77,400 new pensions have been processed, an increase of almost 25 % compared to the same period. More than 6, 7 million presences are carried out each year, plus 5, 5 million visits through the Contact Centre, which has been in operation since December 2017. In public transport, since 2015, the number of passengers increased by 13 %, the supply increased by 10 % and human resources increased by 5 %. The improvement of accessibility allowed only in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area to increase the number of passengers by 167 000. In addition, the largest investment plan in public transport in the last two decades is under way. In the registers, the demand for citizen card issuance services increased by 24 % in 2019, compared to the same period. Still, the reuse of biometric data allowed, since May 20, to reduce the average length of service from 15 to 5 minutes and it was possible to renew the card in the citizen spaces. On June 11, SMS (shortmessage service), which alerts to the expiry date of the citizenship card, began to include a proposal for scheduling, date and place of marking. And yesterday, on June 20, the new feature that allows for its online renewal came into operation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is legitimate to want more and better, but, because we can never get everywhere at the same time, we have the responsibility to take strategic measures for the Public Administration, measures that show expressive and lasting results. That is what we are doing, with discernment, coherence and responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u25	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going into the debate stage itself. Mrs Sofia Araújo of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification from Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u26	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, fortunately today, contrary to the right-wing scenario, we were able to have clear figures of a better quality of the labour market. This was achieved because the Government of the Socialist Party returned income and rights, fought precariousness and poverty, relaunched collective bargaining, stabilized the labour market, restored 35 hours, disengaged careers, put an end to requalification, provided equal opportunities and already regulated thousands of workers who had precarious links in the Public Administration. And this has also been achieved with the strategy of the socialist government, which strongly places on the effective valorization of public administration workers, the training of their leaders, the paths of continuous learning, the commitment to health and safety of workers and the system of incentives to innovation. It is also important to point out that all these measures were well thought out and taken into social dialogue, valuing, and well, the role of workers' representatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As the Secretary of State pointed out, the number of public servants rose by more than 30 000 compared with 2015. If this is not a truly positive number in three and a half years, I don't know what numbers we could have right now. Sectorally, there has been a very significant reinforcement in areas considered priority by the government, such as health, education or social security. These numbers well demonstrate the commitment to strengthening the Public Administration, which is made cross-sectionally in all careers and also in general careers. We are fully aware that it is much easier to destroy than to build, but we are also absolutely sure that we are on the right path for the valorization and training of the Public Administration, so that we have a more efficient and effective public service, with greater quality. I ask Mrs Rita Rato only if, indeed, these issues which the Secretary of State for Public Employment mentioned are positive in three and a half years, and whether all the measures that have been implemented by the Government of the Socialist Party have or have not had the support of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u27	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sofia Araújo, I thank you for your question and I will reply very clearly: of course, on the side of the CFP, we recognize as positive all the steps that have been taken. In fact, some of them exist only by proposal and pressure from the CFP, so obviously we recognize them as positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u30	It is true that numbers have been mentioned on the strengthening of workers, but we must also not forget that, not only in some sectors in particular, but throughout the public administration, we have decades of freezing and bans on contracts. So we have a long way to reverse. How do we understand that today—and in this regard, Mrs Deputy said nothing—there are cancer treatments that are not being ensured at the Hospital de Santa Maria, due to the lack of diagnostic and therapeutic technicians? How is it possible that you are delaying surgeries in the Valent Pulido because of the lack of anesthetists? This only allows you to conclude one thing:...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u31	Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u32	...all that has been done well must continue and all that is lacking to be late every day that passes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u33	That's a truth from La Palice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u34	That is why what the Secretary of State has said, in fact, does not stop being positive. The last process of regulating precarious links in Public Administration takes 20 years of delay. Is it important? It is! Was it a PCP proposal? Yes! Is the replacement of 35 hours for public administration workers elementary? It is! Was it a PCP proposal? Yes! You need to go further and guarantee it to everyone. It is necessary to ensure that professionals are hired. The question is this: why are there rules and funds in the State budgets and the government not doing so?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u36	Why does the government continue to do outdoors, which spreads throughout the country, saying that the deficit is that it must be the alpha and the omega of the country and continues not to respond to dignity in the lives of people?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u37	Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u38	from the PCP, we well know that it was for our contribution and for our pressure that it was possible to advance in very important matters, but we need to go much further. The Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Government members, dignity in the lives of people and public services in this country are worth much more than the deficit, the demands of the European Union and the interest accruing from debt. There is a political will to resolve and we will be here, to continue to demand the way of valuing workers and public services. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u39	To request clarification from the Government, several Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, if the absence of the Minister of Health allowed her to think that the CFP would not confront her or ask her for responsibilities in relation to the situation of the lack of professionals in the National Health Service, this would in fact be naive. The CFP will not allow it and will not fail to hold the government accountable for not solving the problems that persist in the National Health Service. Today there are more than 10 000 health professionals than in 2015. However, there is still a lack of operational and technical assistants, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, nurses, doctors, pharmacists, health technicians, and this insufficiency only persists because the government delays fulfilling the proposals submitted by the CFP to strengthen professionals and does not comply with the rules of the State Budget, either that provide for the hiring of professionals or that of the strengthening of the number of vacancies for the establishment of doctors in deprived areas. The lack of specialist doctors is not resolved because the PS and its Government have rejected the changes to the health care system presented by the CFP and allow the opening of extraordinary invitations to tender to place doctors who have not entered the specialized training. The use of occupational doctors in various hospitals and specialties only happens because the government is slow to comply with the budget rule which provides for the hiring of professionals to end the subcontracting of enterprises. Mrs. Members of the Government, it is not acceptable for maternity — the problem, in fact, brought by my comrade Jerome de Sousa in the last fortnight's debate — as has already happened in Beja and Portimão and which is preparing to happen in four Lisbon hospitals. This situation obliges pregnant women to move to hospitals outside their home. It is not acceptable to add care or close beds because nurses are missing. It is not acceptable to protect the hiring of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians—in fact, today we have said so—as is happening at the Hospital de Santa Maria. This protection makes it impossible for more cancer patients to have access to treatment. It is not permissible to delay or even cancel the preparation of medicines due to lack of pharmacists. It is not acceptable for all this to happen when the Government has at its disposal all the instruments and only does not implement them because it has placed the accelerated reduction of the deficit and the submission to the European Union's taxes in the face of the rights of users and the strengthening of the SNS. We do not accept that hospitals and health centres are waiting months to replace professionals who are down. Mr. Secretary of State, when will the government authorize requests for replacement by hospitals and health centres? When will the necessary invitations to tender be opened, in particular the extraordinary invitation to tender for access to specialized training? When will the professionals who are needed in the National Health Service be hired? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u41	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u42	St. President, I should like to begin by congratulating you, as well as the honourable Members. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen present. Mr. Secretary of State, when speaking of the Public Administration, the Government speaks, speaks, refers numbers, fight numbers, sum numbers, but indeed cannot say anything that makes sense to people. Why, Secretary of State? Because the Portuguese feel every day that public services are getting worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u43	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u44	Feel him in the letters of postponement of consultations and surgeries, feel him in distress when his children are left in school, feel him when they are desperate in the ranks, feel him when they see the time pass without being assigned to them the retirement pension, without receiving the citizenship card or driving card.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u45	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u46	Madam Secretary of State, it is not the PSD who said, this week, he came to the Express newspaper, that 45 000 workers are missing to compensate for the reduction of working hours by 35 hours. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Say it in the media. It says the same newspaper that the public service has more than 31 000 people since the beginning of the legislature, but the recruitment was only 41 %. Madam Secretary of State, we clearly have an irresponsible government that takes the measures without considering them, but we also have a Levian government, a government that cannot assume responsibility for its own decisions. Mr. Secretary of State, these are numbers that come in the newspaper, are public numbers, are numbers that the government cannot deny, because to compensate 35 hours there are 700 nurses and 400 diagnostic technicians in the National Health Service. The suffering of patients and their families, the Secretary of State, is not by chance. Madam Secretary of State says the same week that 15 000 operational assistants are missing, 10 000 technical assistants to compensate for 35 hours. The suffering of teachers, students and their parents is not the work of chance, it is the result of the actions and omissions of this government. The Secretary of State, this Government, with the support of the whole left, chose precariousness in public services of the State as one of its main struggles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u47	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u48	And what are the results? Today, over five years and after the government has failed all the deadlines for the special regularisation programme, there are more time-consuming contracts in the State than when this government began its duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u49	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u50	The Secretary of State refers to the Statistical Synthesis of Public Employment which, in March of this year, had 75 000 long-term contracts in the State, 75 000 precariouss, that all government propaganda cannot forget—...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u51	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u52	...more than 12 000 precariouss than when this government began its duties. Madam Secretary of State, what is the answer, what is the government's excuse for giving these people? More, Madam Secretary of State: why does the government not treat civil servants who are in office properly? It comes in the newspapers that there are services that do not have paper to print official documents, that there are public servants who have to dailyize to buy paper to make official documents, that there are services that do not have money to repair cars, that there are public services that do not have money to take cars to inspection. We have all kinds of problems: lack of toner,... [[PS protests.]] ... employees who have to climb three floors to get to the printer their document, the only printer that works in the service. Mr. Secretary of State, why do public servants not have the conditions to provide a decent service to citizens? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u53	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, first of all, allow me to note that on the right we have just seen an absolutely irreparable intervention. I don't know if it's going to be a lack of memory or if it's going to be a lack of notion, but it wasn't the party of the gentlemen who argued that precariousness should be structural? Were you not the ones who argued that precariousness and labour flexibility were a design? What's the PSD anyway? Is the PSD that misses Pedro Passos Coelho or is the PSD that hasn't found Rui Rio yet? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for God's sake, there must be some notion! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that disregarding the good accounts or diabolicizing the good work that has been done by the current government is not a good way. Let me also say that these systematic repairs to the presence of our State Secretaries do not dignify our democracy. The State Secretaries have done an excellent job and have been a fundamental piece and it is not on the side of the CFP that we expect this kind of institutional rhetoric.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u55	But is anyone putting this on for no reason?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u56	They needed more experience!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u57	Mr. João Oliveira is talking about experience. So let us talk about the experience of the last three years: the unemployment rate has risen from 12, 4 % to 6, 8 % — this is the experience we have together, Mr João Oliveira, and yet it is a fruitful experience for the Portuguese! — the average wage increased by 7 % and we have less than 300 000 unemployed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u58	And how much did taxes increase? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u59	I know how this bothers the right, but it is important to realize that, in addition to this, we have a deficit of 0, 2 % and about 350 000 new jobs. Yes, Mr President, this is the experience that we are interested in with the left — indeed, it is the experience that leads us to ask whether this is not the way we should pursue, without forgetting that the sustainability of the measures we have taken has everything to do with the good accounts, has everything to do with the rigor that we have done, because the Government that the Socialist Party supports does not make the decisions that are sympathetic, nor those that are less sympathetic. Our Government takes the decisions that are necessary for the country, which are necessary to recover what the right has destroyed. This is the experience, Mr. João Oliveira, that we want to use. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And in relation to transport, it has already been flowered here by the Secretary of State, there has been an increase in demand. Mr. João Oliveira, let us talk again about experience, experience that has to do with the fact that we have recovered the conditions of our country — today, there are more people working, there are more people to study and, therefore, there are more people in public transport, and this is reason for satisfaction — but also by the PART(Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport), which we have agreed together. [[PSD laughter.]] Mr President, it is true that there is a way to go, but since we have come from the miserable state of Portugal, from the impoverished state where the right has placed us, since we are on the path of hope and already with some very positive things at the moment, I want to ask you whether this is not a journey we should continue. More: in transport it is necessary to say that, in terms of the EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company), we all recognize the need for recovery and have already hired more than 200 workers. For what? To recover the office capacity and to ensure that the service, which was delapied on the right, is improving. More: in Soflusa and Transtejo, we will also have the hiring of six new sailors and the conversion of four new masters. I should like to conclude with the following question which I find extremely important, Madam Secretary of State: today we spend more than EUR 800 million on public service, and today we have an increase of 30 000 public servants. I ask, Madam Secretary of State: is this a sustainable path or not? Can the Portuguese or not trust that the recovery we are doing in the different sectors will continue in the coming years with the Socialist Party? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u60	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, we knew yesterday, as Country, which is on the table the possibility of rotating closure of four obstetrical emergencies in the Lisbon region. It is not speculation, it was the Regional Health Administration that admitted that this hypothesis had been placed in a meeting with these institutions. We are talking about the possibility of closure of the emergencies of the Motherland Alfredo da Costa, of the Hospital de Santa Maria, of the Hospital de São Francisco Xavier and of the Hospital Fernando Fonseca, Amadora-Sintra. Why? Lack of obstetricians and anesthetists. Now, the truth is that a situation like this is not created from night to day, it did not arise by work and grace of chance. A situation like this is known and develops for a long time. In addition, in August of last year, 2018, almost a year ago, there were resignations in the Amateur-Sintra because it was claimed by the investment and reinforcement of the number of professionals, exactly in the area of obstetrics. At the end of last year, in December, MAC, Motherhood Alfredo da Costa, closed the urgency to the public for lack of anesthetists. So the situation is not now. What we need to know is what the government has done, knowing this situation, to avoid rotating closures in the summer. We, Block Left, are very clear on this subject of rotating closures: any kind of solution that is a remedy, that worsens quality and closes the door to user admission is not the solution we want for the National Health Service. Anyone who wants a National Health Service of quality and excellence, as it should be, does not make remittances to the National Health Service, makes structural reforms, takes structural measures. And this is hiring professionals, it's not closing services due to lack of professionals. So what is being asked is what the government is doing at the moment not to make rotating closures, but rather to hire professionals for these institutions and all the institutions of the National Health Service in order to prevent any kind of closures. I'm done with one last question. The government had announced that this year, 2019, some SNS institutions, some SNS hospitals, would have autonomy, would have a project of autonomy. We did not know any more about this, but the autonomy of the institutions is essential for them not to be dependent on a government authorization — we know, for example, that an authorization, ultimately by Minister Mário Centeno, is needed to hire an operational assistant. This is what is happening today. Where are these self-reliance projects of the institutions? When will the SNS institutions have freedom and autonomy to hire the resources they need, who know they need, who need to hire now, but who, if they do not have autonomy, will always be protected, because Minister Mário Centeno, we already know, takes a long time to authorize these contracts, because it is with a more eye in Brussels and in the deficit than in the National Health Service itself? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u62	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the health status of Portuguese is worrying and serious. Well you may come here to announce the already spending of contracts, you may well make promises and announcements, which you have systematically and over the past four years have not fulfilled, well you may continue to impose the financial burden on health services that your speech has no adherence to reality, in fact, to those, unfortunately, hundreds of news from the last few days, that are in retroactive and that are in fact not isolated cases, are a standard that reveals your inability to assume responsibility for what is happening, your inability to solve serious problems of our citizens. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know if you've already realized that the only place where the SNS is okay is in your political speech. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u64	Everything around here is a disaster that you are about to devalue, as Mr Minister did in six hours of hearing in the Commission two days ago, and how, in fact, proves, I insist, the reality around us and your inability, I insist, to solve the problems of the sector now. Those who feel it are the thousands of Portuguese, who wait for specialist consultations, with long waiting times, far beyond reasonable. Those who say so are the Portuguese with oncological disease who live from north to south of the country — those of Viseu, Lisbon, the Algarve, the Beja, and who face delays in relation to cancer treatments. Who says so are the pregnant women of the maternity ward of the crown of Lisbon, of Beja, of Portimão, of Setúbal. Those who say it are professionals, who are exhausted, are deformed by your government and who are giving much beyond their capacity. Therefore, in addition to the captivating, in addition to the total impreparation with which they made the shift from working hours to 35 hours,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u65	Ah! We're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u66	... in addition to the inability to assume responsibility for government and for four years to disillusion Portuguese health and others, what I ask you, the Secretary of State, is what you really want to do to solve these problems. We already know you're going to have four months of insane work to do what you haven't done in four years. We already know that until October « it is now», in an electoral climate that they are living! I want to conclude by saying the following: from the Prime Minister to the common citizens, everyone wants the same, i.e., quality health services and quick response for themselves and theirs in relation to the problems that cause suffering in health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u67	The CDS is an exception!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u68	With this government, they don't have that answer. We need to change! I insist on the question: when does this government take effective measures to make health the true national design that the Portuguese deserve?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u69	It's the Greens' turn. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, we do not devalue, in fact, we recognize the strengthening of professionals to whom it has been referred, but still public services remain far from responding to the needs of Portuguese. The problems reach virtually all sectors and all public services: lack of workers in schools, lack of workers in the field of health, lack of workers in the areas of justice, social security, registers and notaries, lack of workers in transport, and out there. The answer is, in fact, far from what is needed, but it is also far from the way the previous government looked at public services because, as we know, that government was interested in continuing its saga against public services and, above all, making use of the magic word of the PSD / CDS government, which was « goodbye ». In addition, we must also not forget that all the budgets of the previous government contained a standard that simply prevented public enterprises from hiring workers. Of course, these policies, not justifying everything, are still made to feel and contribute, too, to the situation we live in. This is also why measures are required to ensure not only the provision of public services, which are essential to the population, but also the effectiveness of the principle of universality of public services. We know that steps have been taken in this area, with the hiring of workers, as I said recently, but we also know that many workers are still lacking in public services and that this is compromising the State's response to its social functions—it is enough to look at the areas of health or transport. At the transport level, when we see the increase in demand, following positive progress with the social pass, the excellent contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to combating climate change that this measure can boost is seriously compromised. It is that, even before the increase in demand, transport no longer gave the right answer, now, with this increase in demand, if the supply remains, it goes down water.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u71	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u72	It goes by water the right to mobility of people, goes by water the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and also goes by water the contribution in combating climate change. It's all going down the water! Moreover, it is very unwise to be appealing to the use of public transport and then not to create the conditions for people to actually see in public transport a real alternative to the use of private cars. In view of the lack of transport personnel, what is the Government's response? Remove seats. It can't be, Madam Secretary of State! The same is true of health problems. Lack of health workers and, instead of hiring professionals, maternity leave. Mr Secretary of State, what is going on with the government? Do you think that this is how the problems are solved, with the withdrawal of banks on trains and buses or with maternity leave operating in a rotating system or even closing them up? Oh, my God! Mr Secretary of State, what I think is that this government is on its way to captivate common sense. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u73	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Maria de Fátima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u74	Mr President, I would like to make it clear in my replies, starting by stressing, Mr André Pinotes Batista, that the Government has taken a set of strengthening and betting measures in the Public Administration in a convincing, firm manner, with account, weight and measure. As several members of the government have stressed over the past few years, we cannot « take the greater step than the leg », because the risk would be unsustainable for the future of the country. The EUR 800 million that the Budget accommodates and which gives expression to the set of measures taken for the Public Administration, from the recovery of wages to the strengthening of effective assets, are indeed an expression of this effort and of that firm and convincing option of the Government. Mr. Álvaro Batista, we all read newspapers. We all read newspapers, but I think it would be useful and interesting to diversify our readings,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in particular, read perhaps the Journals of the Republic, read the activity reports of the services, because it refers to public services as being worse — which I think is strange, because it referred to social security — implies a comparative judgment. So, let's do a little comparative exercise and I'll probably focus on this comparative exercise in social security. If I would like to underline the following: between 2010 and 2015 there has been a 33 % decrease in the overall effectiveness of social security agencies. in this legislation, between 2016 and 2018, there is an increase of 8, 6 % of social security effectiveness, corresponding to a positive balance of 693 workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u75	So why are services worse? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u76	We must not forget—and we return to comparative judgment—that, in addition to all the human resources management measures taken in the Ministry of Labour and Social Security in the previous legislature, such as the process of requalification... I will not « rain in wet»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u77	Why are services worse? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u78	... but I recall an order from the then Minister of Social Security, which simply prevented the services and bodies from initiating internal competitive procedures. Therefore, the services were completely manipulated in their performance. To say that nowadays services work worse is, at least, bizarre! Let me demonstrate and give examples of measures that this Government has taken to strengthen the capacity to respond to services, also in line with changes in demand, because services are not static, society is not static and needs evolve, change and need to be addressed in a dynamic way. Some examples of measures strengthening the capacity to respond to social security: the reversal of the qualification process — yes, it was a point of honour and it was possible for 210 workers to return to the Social Security Institute, a total of about 650 workers who had been subject to the requalification in the previous Government ; the systematic opening of competitive procedures for workers linked to the Public Administration ; internal mobility procedures ; the opening of competitive procedures for workers without links to the Public Administration, with a view to the recruitment of 150 technical assistants and 50 superior technicians ; and also a set of other management measures that enabled the response capacity of all social security agencies to be strengthened. The government is paying attention, yes! The Government is taking steps to strengthen these critical services for citizens. Mr José Luís Ferreira, on transport, I would just like to make a very brief note, in line with what I have just referred to for social security. Public transport is a strong government bet. They are a strong bet in line with the whole dossier of articulated intervention measures that fit the theme of climate change and therefore we do not neglect this set of measures. I would like to stress two very concrete measures: the hiring of 102 workers for EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company S.A. ) to strengthen the response capacity, also in the investment plan, the strengthening of the diesel car park, rented to Renfe,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u79	They're good, but they're not alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u80	... and phased programming of the repair cycles of the surrounding material and,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u81	Cars don't go alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u82	... because transport is not dissociated from the environment and because we have fulfilled all the commitments we have made and we have only one face, in terms of recruitment, also fulfilled those commitments. We well know that the State Budget Act determines our recruitment in several areas, which are very relevant to transport and the environment. I only give the example that we are complying with Article 40. that of the State Budget Act this year. And, yes, already this year, procedures for recruiting nature watchers and operational assistants, forest agents, to the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests have been authorized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u83	You now have the floor, also to answer, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Francisco Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u84	Mr President, just to answer the questions raised about health. Not respecting the order, I begin by replying to Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, on the question of this promulgation of maternity confinement in Lisbon. The answer is this: they will not close maternity wards in Lisbon in the coming summer months. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u85	It's just for a few hours, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u86	What is being studied by the Regional Health Administration, in collaboration with these four hospitals, is the way that, during these summer months, the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) will send pregnant women, through the CODU(urgent patient guidance centres) to these hospitals, recognizing, of course, that there are difficulties—as there has always been—and creating, in fact, a collaborative logic within the context of the Lisbon metropolitan urgency, ensuring that at least three of these four maternity hospitals...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u87	After all, they're going to lock up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u88	... will always be in full operation and the other maternity will be operating only with minimum levels of external urgency. All this is being worked out so there are no surprises. It will be communicated, in due course, when this happens, so that there are no surprises and to ensure, exactly, that level of excellence to which we are used. As for Mrs Carla Cruz of the PCP, who mentioned examples of problems in oncology in Santa Maria and at the level of the anesthetists in the Pulido Valente, I must say that they will certainly be different questions. If you will allow me to question the lack of human resources in a hospital like Santa Maria's, I will certainly have the greatest doubts about accepting that is real and that these are not organizational matters. As for the anesthesiologists, it is a different matter. However, he knows that, as far as substitutions are concerned, the government today no longer has any interference or limitation in the replacement of human resources, either by temporary absences or by definitive absences. You also know that in terms of contracts, numbers are evident: there are more than 10,800 professionals than in 2015 — plus 4000 doctors, plus 4400 nurses, plus 600 diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. Are we able to solve all the problems, particularly in medical terms? Don't! It would be worthwhile to pay attention to the entry numbers at the medical facility, to graduate training, and to make a comparison. Thus, between 2011 and 2015, they entered the postgraduate training around 1600, 1700 doctors per year and, in 2019, entered 2400 — that is, more than 700 doctors than the average of the previous period —, having been, last year, 2300 and, in 2017, 2300. We do not facilitate postgraduate training levels, we want to maintain quality above all, but the results will only be visible in the coming years. Finally, on the question put by Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto — again the speech of chaos! — the truth is that waiting times are decreasing, cancer patients have excellent treatment in this country, pregnant women are safe. In other words, I would say that despite his speech, the Portuguese continue to rely on the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u89	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the absence of the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and its State Secretaries will not allow the Government to escape the confrontation and discussion here to be made about the shortage of workers in social security services. Today's reality is still marked by the delay in the allocation of old-age and invalidity pensions, death benefits or supplementary benefits for dependency, among other social benefits, the delay in the allocation of benefits from the international area, in response to foreign agencies, which makes it difficult to receive benefits abroad, the delay in treatment to requests for changes in pensioners — the review of the calculation of the pension, the change of residence or the modification of the mode of payment — or months of waiting for service markings. With all this, there are pensioners and pensioners in a situation of profound difficulties and long-term unemployed workers in dramatic situations, because they wait for months for the pension after they have exhausted the unemployment allowance, without means of subsistence. That's what we're talking about. And we do not detach all this from the huge shortage of workers in social security, which has lost thousands of workers because of the responsibility of successive governments over the years. Thousands of less workers mean less conditions to respond to users, it means a huge burden on workers who still exist in social security, who have to do the work of them and the other workers who should be there and are not, it means serious consequences in the concrete life of people, who do not see their right to social protection and social security fulfilled. This is a concern that we have repeatedly put in hearings and even in 15-year debates by the voice of the Secretary-General of the CFP. We know from the external competition that has been opened, we know that there are more pensions and benefits in payment, we also know of the existence of the Contact Centre — in fact, workers should have a link to social security rather than the precarious link they have today — but we also know that delays have been dragged too long and that the government can carry out the hiring of workers needed to respond to the needs of users because it has tools to do so, if it ceases to place the deficit in front of the rights of users of social security. For this reason, when is the recruitment required by all workers to respond to the needs of social security users? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u91	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not only a lack of workers in the Public Administration, but also a lack of government! And what we have seen today in this debate is the unjustified lack of two ministers and six State Secretaries. See, the Minister of Infrastructure and the respective State Secretaries did not have time to come to Parliament to participate in a debate of this importance! It may have happened that the train is late, or eventually the boat has not broken, or even that the subway has been removed! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u93	That must have been why, then, the PSD bench is so empty! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u94	Mr State Secretary for Administration and Public Employment,'strengthening bet'? Oh, my God! I imagine what it would be like if the bet wasn't strong! Know that users have never had so many hours removed. I don't remember how many train situations are going down as it is today, how many passengers have to sleep on terminals because the last boat has failed, how many trains have been abandoned on the lines waiting for maintenance that is not carried out because of lack of personnel, the boat sector is in total ruin — at least 25 workers are missing, promised by the Minister of the Environment since 2016 and who are still coming in today! The Government has been carrying out advertising and propaganda throughout its mandate and still today the Secretary of State has done the same. Yeah, there are users who only have one train a day to get to work and one train in the afternoon to get home. When that train fails, do you know what happens? They don't have a train, but they have to go back to work the next day! But you know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It is scandalously that CP's public service contracts and ships have ended and its renewal is four years to be treated, certainly hidden in any government drawer. And with that, they're taking the services to the point of need. On Wednesday, Mr President of the Transport Authority in this Parliament said that these CP, Metro and boat services could even make only one trip per day. So this is a scandal! The regulator also said that he was on his feet and hands tied, he couldn't do anything in this situation because of the lack of the public service contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u95	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u96	We are not surprised, therefore, that the CP, from Sunday, on the Sintra line, the most sought-after line in the country, cut the frequency of trains to half in peak time. They will probably know what this will represent! By May 175 trains had been abolished. In the face of this chaos, the government finally acknowledged the failure and apologized to the Portuguese. Skillfully, at the cost of EUR 116 million of taxpayers, reduces the price of travel and removes seats in transport. It creates a low cost service, standing, to face the constant suppressions of trains and boats and olympically ignores security issues, populations weakened with special mobility needs. It's just a fact that the Portuguese are being transported in wagons! So, Mrs. Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, for when are public service contracts and the hiring of such workers announced since 2016? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u97	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, for the lives of people on a daily basis, for the life of the country, transport is surely a fundamental and indispensable public service. from the beginning of this debate on the lack of workers in public services there are two facts that have emerged. First, no member of the government — none! — with protection and competence in transport — be it urban, river or rail — it has been worth attending. Maybe he's been held up in some suppressed career! Secondly, the Secretary of State, in her initial speech, in that sentence which she brought about transport, did not say a word about the demanding shortage of workers. Transport users continue to wait and despair for services that do not come, careers that are removed, unbearable waiting times and overcrowded transport, trains, boats and subways, for lack of staff, because the government prevents the hiring of workers for transport companies. For years the government has prevented companies from hiring and getting to the point of celebrating, as we have now seen, the admission of six workers — six workers! — for Soflusa, when the shortage is tens of workers, only in Soflusa is 30, plus the others in the Transtejo, in all areas, as has been demonstrated and underlined by the President of the company in this House. Mr Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, it is not important to explain why the proposal from the CFP to unlock staff recruitment in transport undertakings has entered into force in the State budget, but remains unimplemented by the Government? The Secretary of State spoke recently about railway rolling stock. For, there is a curious fact that perhaps the Secretary of State is not taking into account: although the name may mislead, motorists are not alone, they need workers, they need drivers and reviewers. At the train stations there is a need for personal assistance, and this is still being prevented by the government from taking business orders into account in this sector. Between 2004 and 2018, in the last 15 years, CP, EMEF, IP, Lisbon Metropolitan, Soflusa and Transtejo lost 4823 workers, a 35 % decrease of the actual! This is the dimension that is essentially necessary for a regular public service to be provided, with quality and safety. So here's the question and the challenge, Mrs. Secretary of State: when she says that we can't take any further steps than the legs, don't you mind going to the Barreiro terminal or to the Amadora station to explain this to the passengers? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u99	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u100	Mr. President, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, said here that between 2010 and 2015, social security had a 33% decrease in its effectiveness. He also said that with this government there was an increase of 8 %. We pointed out the change in trend: where there were redundancies there were contracts, but see that 8% is far from 33% that social security has lost. Only at the National Pension Centre were 40% of the workers who ceased to exist in that public service and even though, with the State Budgets for 2018 and 2019, it was possible, through PREVPAP and an internal competition, to add 122 workers to the National Pension Centre, even though there is now an external competition for more 70 workers we know that people continue months waiting not only for pensions but other social benefits and we know that this brings into question the essential right to social security and social protection. In a draft resolution, the Left Block adopted a recommendation to the Government on 31 May, with three points: firstly, that the competitive procedures should be completed and that the period of validity of the reserve for this invitation to tender for the National Pension Centre should be increased so that no new invitation to tender should be launched every time more people are needed; secondly, that temporary pensions should be allocated — they began to be allocated in June, they will also be awarded in July ; thirdly, that there should be stays abroad from technicians of the National Pension Centre. The questions I would like to ask you are the following: when will this competition be concluded for the recruitment of the 70 workers to the National Pension Centre? When will we have the workers on the asset? How will the Government implement the extension of the territorial reserve period and make these stays? I leave a final question on IFP ( Institute of Vocational Training ). There are workers who have been on false green receipt for decades. There are 1200 PSI workers/trainers who had a favorable opinion, were identified as having an irregular bond and being a permanent necessity, but the government has opened only 507 vacancies, less than half the positive opinions given to the IFP trainers. The question is concrete: what will happen to the IFP trainers to whom the State recognizes that they have an irregular bond and are a permanent necessity, but for whom it has not opened a gap in order to regulate that same bond? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u101	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the first thing to see is the absence of the Government in the field of social security. The government behaves like a child here: it sucks, it behaves badly, and then when it is called to respond for what it has done or for what it has not done, it hides and is ashamed! It is normal to be ashamed and regrettable to exercise here by the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, who responds to the serious problems of the citizens with numbers and with total insensitivity to the reality that we are talking about. More seriously, the Secretary of State knows that many of the figures on social security and the delay in payment of social benefits have been requested here in succession in the Assembly of the Republic, and the Government has hidden these numbers. You've hidden numbers that we have the right to know. Mr Secretary of State, the problem of late payment of pensions is not news or media, it is a problem of many citizens living within the limit of survival.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u104	The Secretary of State cannot say here that it is strange to say that things are worse today because there are more officials, because what is bizarre is the government that has not yet grasped the seriousness of many humanitarian situations, in the view of the Ombudsman, who speaks of « triggering appeals », « damage, despair and anguish» by many citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u106	The Secretary of State has not strictly understood anything! You can say here that, as there are more employees, public services cannot be said to be worse. Madam Secretary of State, you know that a human resources policy is not exhausted at the time of recruitment!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u107	That's it! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u108	And the Secretary of State also heard the Ombudsman say that Provedoria has a clear perception that something is working very badly with the services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u109	You cut 40 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u110	There is a lack of people, instruments, organization, means, and shortcomings have serious consequences in people's lives. Madam Secretary of State, it is not worth coming to Parliament if it is to say strictly nothing! It is better to assume that the government is totally incapable of responding to these needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u112	The Secretary of State came here to speak only in human resources and in contract numbers. But she also said: "The lack of human resources cannot serve as an adequate basis to justify, for years, the failure of these State duties." So, Madam Secretary of State, the first question I ask you is: do you assume the incompetence and inability to manage this serious problem of citizens?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u114	Second question: when do they put an end to this? We are at the last debate in the first half of this year and I believe that the Secretary of State was in Parliament — but, if not, you know it well! — when it was said by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Social Security that this would end at the end of the first half. Are you in a position to assure the Portuguese that the problem of delays in social benefits is already overcome, now that they say they have already taken all measures in the context of staff recruitment? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u115	Mr Pedro Pimão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate comes at a very timely time, at the end of a legislature, and can serve as a summary of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u117	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u118	A legislature that, in order to fulfil a strategy of maintaining power, sacrificed public services, sacrificed the development of our country. Therefore, the Portuguese Communist Party now recognizes well the bad strategy followed in the course of this legislature and what are the harmful effects of this management to our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u119	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a crucial area for the development of our country, which is that of education, of which little has been spoken today. Unfortunately, when we talk about education, we speak of a government that can achieve the greatest tax burden in history, with 35, 4 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ), and have the lowest public investment in education, less than 40 % of that which was the effective public investment in education in 2015. This is the portrait of this government's wager in the area of education. But more than that, than not investing financially in education, the problem is that in vocational education, public schools with professional courses that have not yet received the funding tranches to pay the courses of the 10. o and 11. years! The problem is to have an inclusive legal system of education with good intentions, but in which schools have no means or resources to meet new legislative obligations!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u121	It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u122	The problem is, for example, we have a speech that appeals to the use of new technologies and we have in our schools a completely obsolete technological park, with outdated software, computers that no longer work, internet network to which most schools do not even have access and, when they have, the signal is weak, as is also this government, unfortunately, in the area of education, an area where it should be strong, because this would guarantee the future of our country. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] And let's talk about infrastructure. The most modern schools we have in our country do not have the conditions for maintenance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, schools have no means to pay the employees that the School Park had put there for their maintenance. This is not to speak of the other schools, of those that were not targeted by the School Park, because in relation to them, if they were not the municipal chambers of the country, with the effort of their local budget, to guarantee the national counterpart that should be the competence of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance, Prime Minister Antonio Costa and Minister of Education would not make it brilliant to go to inaugurate schools that are the result of the work and the commitment of our mayors. Finally, we're talking about personnel. Three months ago, the Minister of Education promised 1,000 new operational assistants in our schools. Well, this week ends the school year and not one of those 1000 employees is in these schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u123	It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u124	Why? Because the schools opened the contests, but the government cancelled them. We're coming to the end of the school year and the schools are still without employees. So, Mr President, I conclude with the following question to the Government: when are the schools going to equip the technical and human resources to meet their needs? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u125	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u126	Mr President, the Under-Secretary of State and Education, it is true that this Government has hired more civil servants—over 30 000, it has been mentioned here — throughout the legislature, in many areas, in particular those in which there was a greater deficit, such as education and health, which is insufficient, with serious damage to public services and fundamental rights. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] What is amazing is that despite this contract, this country continues to have fewer civil servants than it had in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u127	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u128	It still has less than 30 000 public servants than it had in 2011, which gives us the size of the hole that the right left in public services, but which also gives us the size of the inadequate investment of this government in strengthening workers and workers of public services. [[Protests by PSD Member Berta Cabral.]] The case of education is paradigmatic. We had thousands of workers with employment-inclusion contracts working in schools to replace workers with rights — workers working with children every day. The relationship port was reviewed and, nevertheless, all the principals and all the school communities tell us that it is insufficient: insufficient to meet the structural conditions of schools, insufficient to meet the challenges that schools face every day. Therefore, we continue to have schools that have to close the library to open up to them; we continue to have schools that have jobs that work under outrageous conditions in terms of labour rights and wages so that schools can open every day. It is therefore necessary to review the portfolio of ratios, since a resolution was already adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic, which recommended that the Government revise that portfolio. My question is very specific: when will the government review the gate of relations? When will the government value the operational assistants, saying that it is not normal to assign the same career to a heavy passenger driver, to a worker who works with children with special educational needs and to a worker who helps patients in a hospital? It is not normal for these three workers, so important for the lives of people, but with such different functions, to have the same career. It has also been approved in the Assembly of the Republic the functional valorization of these workers, the return of medical action assistants, the return of educational action assistants. Question: Will the Government comply with this recommendation from the Assembly of the Republic? Will the government hire more operational assistants, more medical action assistants, more educational action assistants for schools, more specialized technicians, more diagnostic technicians for hospitals? Is the government going to hire all the public servants that are necessary? We already know how the right solves this problem: if there is a lack of employees, the existing ones are put to work longer hours. We know! They went against 35 hours, they're still against 35 hours! They were against the hiring of workers and are still against the hiring of workers! That is why they always come here to defend the ratio and defend the contract ban that Brussels imposes. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] They sent 600 social security workers to requalification, and that is what they would do today if they were in government. We have no doubt about that. What the current government has to do is go beyond the electoral promises, because even in relation to them there are doubts. We have a member of the Government, the Prime Minister, who promises that if he is a government next year, he will hire qualified leaders for public service and we have another member of the Government, the Minister of Finance, who says he does not commit himself to any electoral promise. That is, we have a tie between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. Mrs. Under-Secretary of State and Education, I would like to know which side it is going to take off. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u129	In reply, the Government has the floor, first of all, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u130	Mr President, seeking to be brief, and starting by replying to Mrs Diana Ferreira, I have just mentioned some figures on social security and strengthening social security services, but I would like to say that the Government is not hiding behind numbers or round sentences or ignoring needs. We always act with responsibility to assess the actual needs of the services, and this process is permanent. The assessment of recruitment needs is a necessarily permanent process. Recalling what I have also mentioned recently, and in view of the strengthening of net effects, which has already been achieved, I would like to stress that the recovery of the liability, which is a deep liability for many years, is not done instantly. In fact, competitive procedures are under way, will be completed as soon as possible and the fact that they are in progress does not mean that the effective needs of services are not further assessed. I would also like to say that not only is there a strengthening of organizational capacity and therefore there are management measures that can and should be taken — and have already been taken — by social security services. Let me list three of these measures: within the framework of the National Pension Centre, which is located in Lisbon, were created by the poles in the districts of Aveiro, Braga, Leiria and Viseu, taking advantage of the capacity installed in the respective district social security centres ; the social security contact centre was reactivated, allowing the release of resources at the Social Security Institute, until then allocated to the telephone service to the citizen, allocated to other tasks ; and the acquisition of analysis and processing services to resolve existing procedural expectations. This is an effort the government is making. Monitoring is ongoing and, depending on monitoring, the measures are open to be taken in order to strengthen the response capacity of the services. Mr Bruno Dias, with regard to the assessment of needs in the transport sector, to add to what I have already mentioned recently I would also like to stress that the fact that 102 workers have already been recruited for EMEF does not mean that the Government does not continue to examine the effective need for workers to be strengthened in all services and in all operational areas where effectively this shortage is proven.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u131	Go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u132	I would also like to reply to Mr Soeiro, stressing that competition procedures should in fact be streamlined. The Government has published a portal to simplify and speed up the competitive procedures so that the procedural saga of the competitive procedures can be fairly agileized and I would also like to point out that, with regard to the IEFP (Instituto de Employo e Formation Professional ), and not forgetting this issue, the rules for the integration of trainers are explicitly derived from the PREVPAP Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u133	What about the others?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u134	So nothing's happening that doesn't have legal foresight. And it's not about any abnormal situation. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia mentioned the damage, despair and anxiety of the users, but let me tell you that the Government does not accept any kind of lesson of social sensibility on the right after all the measures taken in the previous legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u135	To reply, by the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by saying to Mr Pedro Piimpão that the Ministry of Education's budget has always had consistent increases in its value since 2016, with only 4 % increased from 2018 to 2019. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] I would also like to tell you that in April 2019 we invested half a million euros on the Internet of schools, which today — they can ask anyone they want — is proved to be faster than before that investment. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] And since we are talking about human resources, let me give you a number: between 2011 and 2015, 15 000 teachers left the system. The former government has withdrawn 15 000 teachers from schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u137	And they still have the can to talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u138	... having hit the bottom in the academic year 2013 / 2014, in which there were 110,000 teachers in schools. Today, there are over 120,000 teachers in schools, 8000 of whom have been linked only in the last four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the thousand and such operational assistants and the annulment of tenders — which, moreover, is said to be very misleading — in numbers, in order not to lengthen me, ahead of the 1167 operational assistants divided by more than 500 organic units, only 113 actually had to cancel their contests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u139	Don't look at me! See the statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u140	And this happened only for one reason in a way: with the entry into force of another door, there was a need to adapt the ads to the new door. These are the numbers, it's not worth getting into demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u141	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u142	The portfolio of the ratios, approved by this Government in September 2017, involved the immediate entry into the tables of more than 2500 operational assistants, which aimed, essentially, to strengthen operational assistants to support children in kindergartens and children with special educational needs. We therefore have a new office, approved in September, which had an immediate effect on the number of operational assistants in Portuguese schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u143	We will continue with questions to the government. Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, in particular the Secretary of State for Justice, would have much to talk about human resources in justice from the frustration of legitimate expectations in statutory terms of a wide range of workers, ranging from registers and notarial to judicial police, to prison guards, to judicial officials. But that is not what this question is about, but above all, about the problems that users feel about the lack of human resources in these services. Let us look at the most critical points in the system. We found that, in some sectors, there was some progress regarding 2014 / 2015, when the situation actually hit the bottom. But in some sectors, not only has the answer been too late and insufficient as there has been no actual progress that would be needed. Let us look at the case of the Judicial Police, in which a competition that has been dragged for years, with an exasperating slowness, causes only now a slight recovery in relation to a deficit that has been extended. In 2015, there were 2437 officials in the Judicial Police and in 2018 we arrived at a situation in which there were only 2261, while the competitive process was endlessly dragged and which only very recently ended with a very insufficient number of recruiting inspectors. In the case of prison guards in 2003 there were 4735 in the system and in 2016 there were only 4044, i.e. fewer than 700 employees. Now it will be 4336, i.e. there was a recovery, but we are with fewer than 400 prison guards than there were in 2003. And the prison system is not limited to prison guards, having a manifest shortage of other professionals, which are in less number but which are necessary for the operation of the system. In the case of judicial officials in 2002 there were 9406 judicial officers and in June 2017 they were less than 2523. Currently, according to more recent data from Pordata, there will be 7219, while there are still about 1000 places to fill. It should be noted that, in this matter, in 2014, they were beaten in the background. That is, only between 2010 and 2014 there was a reduction of 1313 judicial officials. There was a recovery, but there was much to be solved, that computerization alone cannot solve. There has been no significant progress in registering and notarising. We have 4929 employees and we had 5015 in 2015. There has been no progress and, in this respect, there is a critical point in the system: citizens who need to remove their citizenship card have been confronted with the need to lose working days in order to do so. The Government has announced the resolution of this problem through more facilities, in particular with access to the Internet. But, Madam Secretary of State for Justice, although we all welcome progress on the possibility of online services for citizens, this does not hide the manifest lack of human resources in the area of registers and notariates, with all the discomfort and with all the difficulties that this has been creating for the citizens. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u145	Mrs Emília Cerqueira now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for Justice, will also speak of justice, an area which this government has underestimated, especially in the case of registers and notary. That's the truth. Madam Secretary of State for Justice, let me tell you a small part of this is not my words, but I think it is worthy to read — an open letter from the Association of the Conservatives of the Registers addressed to the Minister of Justice, who today did not give us the pleasure of her presence: they denounce the « pre-qualification status» in which the services of the registers are found, saying, moreover, that « at the final stage of the legislature, the services of the registers and notaries are considerably in worse condition than at the beginning of the registers ». They do not receive lessons from the right, but when the country is not in crisis and when it is not in external intervention they should do as the right does, which is working more than announcing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u147	The right is in crisis!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u148	There was not even concern about placing the justice sector in the National Reform Plan. There's a lack of staff, there's a lack of conditions. The government does not act by action, it is always by reaction. There is talk of delays in citizenship cards, nationality requests, passports, and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice announce immediately « we will resolve for the week». It even seems that we are starting a legislature and not that we are at the end of this legislature. Citizens continue to see themselves in the face of delays and lack of conditions, transversal in this area. What do we have? Ads, ads, ads! We have a government that does not, does not act, does not worry, a government that announces because of any newspaper title that can bother you a little bit more. You're not going to be unsatisfied, so shut up with ads! It's the custom, we're used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u149	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u150	There are fewer people, there are fewer conditions as well. Now, there is an excuse for « let's create a computer method for everyone», starting from the principle that it was not expectable that the citizen card should be renewed after five years! Look, the Minister of Justice has come to find out that there has been an increase in the renewals of the citizenship card, which is a very strange thing! The Portuguese suddenly increased and there was no more Portuguese to renew the citizen's card... It's just the habit: don't do, don't act. So do it once and for all. The gentlemen. Members do not like criticism, they are exempt from criticism. [[PS protests.]] There are people who no longer find passwords at 8:00 in the morning, because at 6:00 in the morning, at 5:00 in the morning, at 4:00 in the morning, there are people... there are 200 passwords... [[PS protests.]] I'm begging you! They will tell the people of the services, the Portuguese, that they are wrong, that their problems are not real, that they are the fruit of their imagination. Or is this situation, on the contrary, the result of prodigious imagination, of a pink state that wants to sell to us but that is not real? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u151	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to begin by congratulating the Portuguese Communist Party on this marking.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u153	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u154	You can stay there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u155	For many years there has been no attack on the rights of mobility and labour by a Government of the Portuguese Republic. I'm talking to you about the transport area. In fact, there are people losing jobs because of the failure of public transport services and there are people who cannot use their right to mobility because of the disability of public transport services. I'm not going to repeat or list the failures, I'm going to make myself the words of the Block, the PCP and the Greens. There is only one difference: that while the CDS does not reach this government, you can afford it, so they are in line with this situation that is happening in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u157	I would like to greet the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment for the courage to come face-to-face, because no State Secretary in the transport area is present. Mr. Secretary of State, I wanted to respond to your challenge. A short time ago, he repeated to exhaustion a comparative exercise. We will do so with the Socialist Party's own Government :The Secretary of State, there was the renewal of the port metro contract to private by the Socialist Party. I assume that I like the private management model; it does not allow parties in file time and the whole family is not named for the board. It's a small difference, but that's not what I want to talk about. I want to talk to you about what is called 'public service contract'. The regulator, the Mobility and Transport Authority, said last week : « In the Port metro, I can guarantee the right to mobility of the citizen, I can guarantee the service because the criteria are defined, the services are defined, the penalties are defined and the authority can act ». And we asked, as well as the Socialist Party, the Block : « So why can't you do it in the metro in Lisbon, in the Soflusa, in the Transtejo or in the CP (trains of Portugal)? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President of the Authority said: « Because I no longer know what I will do for the government to make public service contracts to these companies». There are many letters sent, alerts sent, and the government does not respond. That is why there are reports of daily complaints from people who sleep at the stations, people who don't get to work and lose their jobs. And I am not talking about something that needs to increase the State budget, but it is clear that it needs workers and rolling stock. The question that the regulator asks and that we do is this: why aren't these contracts made? That is the question I would like the Secretary of State to answer. The Secretary of State may say « we have hired more workers for the Soflus». And I ask: for what service, Secretary of State? The President of the Soflusa came to this Parliament and said: "I don't know why more boats will be hired, because I can't figure out what service I'm going to hire more boats." Will they be enough or will they stay here? It was not the PART(Public Transportation Tariff Reduction Support Programme) nor the discount on the charges that brought this chaos, because it already existed before, due to lack of planning, because they do not know what public services it is that they want to provide to the Portuguese citizen. This is called 'incompetence in governance'. This is not about any budgetary constraints, any ideological constraints. It's just doing your job! This is to say: «We want the transport service in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon to be this, with x boats, with x users». All this is predictable. You do not do the basics, and that is why there is a shortage of workers. I'm going to give you another example.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u158	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President of the Mobility and Transport Authority warned of something that is soon to happen: the liberalisation of the rail sector in Europe in 2021. The government is not preparing it. The Government does not know that private operators may come to the service of public transport. Under what conditions will this service be provided?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u160	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u161	With what service guarantees? Mr Secretary of State, these are questions to which I think you can answer and are questions far more serious than probably the « foam of the days ». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u162	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, we walk back every day that the many problems that exist in public services due to lack of workers are to be solved, every day that users are not answered worthy. Although the Ministers of Education, Science, Technology and Higher Education and Culture are not here today, we will not let this important debate be taken for granted. In education, in terms of assistants, administrative and technical specialists, in the school year 2017 / 2018 there were fewer than 3300 of these workers than in 2010 / 2011. If we spoke recently of the 15 000, by the voice of the Under-Secretary of State and Education, it is true that in terms of teachers last school year of 2017 / 2018, according to the latest data available by the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics, there were fewer than 23 000 teachers. Therefore, that bleeding did not stop, that misfortune which, in fact, came from successive governments, particularly from the previous government. It is not enough to say that there are fewer students, because it could have been improved, and much, the public service with more workers. The reality tells us that they actually miss a lot in schools. For example, it could have gone much further in terms of reducing the number of students per class, as the PCP proposed here. Also on the proposal of the CFP, the ratio of assistants and administrative officers was revised, but once again, it fell short of what we proposed. With the support of the PCP, extraordinary links of teachers were made. But that's not enough. The government did not, on the one hand, change the ratio to make it suitable for reality, as proposed by the CFP, nor did it accompany the CFP in the amendment, for example, of the teacher competition scheme, because it is not enough to move in a limited way in the'standard-work', especially when we have the information of a recent study, in which it was revealed that half of the teachers are 50 years old and that there will be a need to renew one in each of the two teachers in the next decade. We would like to ask, then, what will be the start of the next school year. Will all the necessary workers be in schools on the first day of school? We still want to question, at the level of higher education, why the Government wastes the programme of extraordinary regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration ( PREVPAP ), a programme that has existed by proposal and insistence of the CFP for years. Why does the government not, in fact, regulate the links between teachers, researchers, assistant staff, administrative and technical support staff in universities and politicians in our country?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u165	In addition, in culture, at the level of services dependent on the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage, unions have referred to the lack of 49 workers, which compromises the public service of archaeology on central issues such as the evaluation of projects in classified areas and protection areas. We know, at this point, with the real estate pressure that exists, how important this work is. However, Ms. Minister of Culture, in a regiment hearing, announced the opening of tenders for only three, when there are no 49. In museums, palaces and monuments, the situation is considered a time bomb, with directors from North to South of the country complaining of the lack of personnel and damage, which can be irreversible, due to the absence of the passage of testimony. this week we discussed a PCP resolution project that recommends the urgent hiring of personnel for museums, palaces and monuments,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u166	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u167	...it's too bad! — and I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the PS considered it to be extemporaneous, on the very day on which the directors also claimed personal failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u169	Should there be any misfortune, such as that of Rio de Janeiro or that of Paris, in order to take action? It is with more workers and with the appreciation of public services that the country is advancing. This requires courage and the political option to stop putting the deficit targets and constraints imposed by the European Union in front of public service users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u170	Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is clear that the Minister of Health is missing here. The Ministry is represented by Mr. Secretary of State for Health, but, not being present in this debate, the Minister makes a mistake, given the particularity of the case we live in. I'll explain. On Wednesday, two days ago, Mr.Minister was in the Health Committee and was questioned on huge issues, including those of the emergency services of pediatrics and obstetrics of the motherhoods of Lisbon. However, it is not acceptable for the Minister, having been here in the Commission on Wednesday, to have explained nothing about this plan or the rotating closure measure of the Lisbon maternity emergencies, having been known the following day on Thursday, and that the Secretary of State has confirmed here. And the Minister had the duty—it wasn't for her to be well, it was her duty! — to come here to the Chamber to explain exactly this measure, because of these special circumstances. Moreover, Mr Secretary of State, cases are multiplying throughout the country and there are some consequences that Portuguese are facing when they resort to health services that are not acceptable. Mrs. Government members, it is not acceptable that in the 21st century, in the hospital of Évora, people do not have access to hot water. It looks like the Soviet Union hospitals in the 1980s, which didn't have hot water either, only the cold water worked!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u172	Ignorance is far away, really! Don't worry about the credibility of what he says!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u173	Of course, in your residences, Mr. Government members have access to hot water! [[PS protests.]] How is it possible, in the 21st century, to have people in units of the National Health Service in this situation more than a month ago? Mr. Secretary of State, get in the car and go to Évora see what's going on! That's not acceptable! [[PS protests.]] It's a civilizational retreat! It does not correspond to minimum — minimum! — the provision of health care. What is more, there is a mystery here: the Government and the Members. Members who support it, not only those of the Socialist Party, but also the other parties, continue to say that the National Health Service has more than 10,800 workers, employees of various categories. It's a lot of people, Secretary of State! The question is: where are they? It's just that this number can't pass unnoticed nor can it hide people! It's a lot of people! Of course, they are not in the maternity wards of Lisbon. It is obvious that they are not in Évora either. Not in Beja and Portimão either. Therefore, cases multiply from North to South, so it is a mystery to realize how the National Health Service, with more than 10,800 employees, provides a worse quality service for citizens and Portuguese. It is a mystery to understand how the government claims that public investment in the SNS is increasing — it is clear that it does not increase, Mr Secretary of State! — and the service provided is worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u174	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u175	These are the explanations that Mr. Secretary of State should lend to this House to make sure that the overall costs have increased and there are more employees, why the answer is worse. It would also be interesting, finally, to see if the government already has an evaluation of this and if you can technically prove what is going on in the National Health Service so that you don't just stand for jokes and statements that all the people sitting in this Chamber know that they don't correspond to the truth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u176	You have the floor to answer the questions put, Mr. Secretary of State for Justice, Annabela Pedroso.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. Mr António Filipe, on the questions he raised about the officials of the Ministry of Justice, noted the following: perhaps there is no notion that more than 1886 officials were placed in the areas which you referred to only in this Parliament. Let me also point out that, with regard to the Judicial Police ( PJ ), you are absolutely right: the first competition has taken too long, but at the same time as that happened, the 120 candidates have been put in place, at the moment the placement of more than 100 is under procedure, with more than 48 in reserve for recruitment. We are therefore talking about more than 148 inspectors over a period of almost nine months. So in the case of PJ, we're talking about 266 new inspectors, so it will be, I would say, at least closed the biggest failure. As far as the question of the judicial officers is concerned, let me also remind you that only 1100 new judicial officers have entered this legislature and that, as far as prison guards are concerned, we are talking about 386 more. Therefore, from the point of view of the valorization of workers and of all that the Government has done throughout the legislature, I think there is nothing to say in the area of justice. In any case, I would say that the record area is where we are all working because we consider it to be where we have to focus our attention. Mr António Filipe, I am grateful to you for your words when you say that although we are now pointing to what should be the balance of the provision of online services, from what is the proximity to the citizen, but never neglecting what should be the presence of service. That's what we're working on right now. I also reply to Mrs Emília seeking to see if there are more citizens today than there was yesterday. By the way, there's even one. In practice, it is one of the issues that is pointed out to be resolved. The government is not exaggerating the reality that we had at the beginning of this year a situation of a greater number of people for care. And you know why, Mrs. Member? Because we have more nationality requests, in the context of what Brexit has been, to which the requests for renewal are combined, which has led to an increase. But let me inform you that in the last two weeks there has not been, even, a limitation of passwords, given the measures that the Government has taken and that your Government has never taken before. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u178	The Secretary of State for Education, Alexandra Leitão, is also registered, but has very little time, so it must be very synthetic. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u179	Mrs Ana Mesquita, telegraphically, given the time available, I would like to point out that in 2017 / 2018 — these are the latest data available — we did not fully reject teachers who were in schools in 2009 / 2010. The honourable Member herself said that there are, in fact, fewer students in schools, but this did not prevent us from making a significant reduction — it could always be better — the number of students per class, that we had teachers in tutoring and other tasks, such as the National Reading Plan ( PNL) or the School Library Network ( RBE ). It is also worth not forgetting—and this is structural—that the norm-work today has gone from five to three years in any recruitment group,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u180	The Secretary of State has already exceeded her time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u181	... which means that we are linking, on average, 500 to 600 teachers per year instead of 100 who were linked in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u182	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u183	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u184	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u185	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u186	Mr President, recently Mr Miguel Santos asked the Government a question on health matters. I know the government wants to answer the question...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u187	Mr President, we know from the beginning of the sitting that some State Secretaries are present, but not all the folders. Therefore, like the parliamentary groups, the government manages its time as it wants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u188	Mr President, the question is that I know that the government wants to answer Mr Miguel Santos' question, but there is no time left. I therefore ask Mr President whether there is any possibility that the Government will respond to Mr Miguel Santos, or whether it will be in advance of the six minutes available for the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u189	Sir, we already understand your idea. There is no parliamentary group that is available to grant time to the Government, so at the closing stage the respective member of the Government who uses the word will be able to respond to whatever he wants. That is how the debates in the Assembly of the Republic work, as you know. You now have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the end of the Legislature is the time to make the balance of the journey, a balance between the starting point, November 2015 and today. It was a way where the health sector was a priority for the government, where the word of order was to recover! Yes, recover the SNS and its professionals from four years of austerity to which they were subject by the PSD/CDS government! Retrieve the SNS from a court of 2850 professionals, recover the SNS from a court of 1300 million euros in its financing. We've made this way, no matter how much you want to deny it here! The health sector was the one that recorded the greatest staff reinforcement, today having more 10 800 professionals than in 2015! The SNS today has the greatest work force ever: it has more than 4000 doctors, which represents an increase of 16%; it has more 4400 nurses, which represents an increase of 11%; it has more than 1000 superior health and diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to staff reinforcement, in the last four years of the legislature we have progressively improved working conditions for the more than 130 000 professionals of the National Health Service. We did so when we put back wages, the value of extra work and uncomfortable hours; when we resumed 35 hours a week; when we took off our careers; when we improved the incentives for the geographical mobility of doctors to the deprived areas, fixing more than 350 doctors. We did so when we created the special career of Pre-Hospital Emergency Technician and Superior Diagnostic and Therapeutic Technician; when we optimized the pharmaceutical career; when we revived the nursing career. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the balance that results from a persistent and gradual recovery, made with social sensitivity and budgetary responsibility, where the narrative of "is worse" and of misfortune does not collide! It is a recovery that makes us look forward to a better future for the National Health Service, a future that will necessarily pass through the path of continuity of strengthening professionals, their training, their careers and their working conditions, a future that guarantees more and better health care for Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u191	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, we can turn around what we want, but the truth is that a government with social and environmental concerns cannot minimize the strategic and fundamental role of public services. We well know that with several governments, especially with the PSD/CDS government, services that have not been completely closed or handed over to private interests have literally been deprived of human resources, with all the consequences that arise there, in particular, to the interior of the country. And since there are no omelettes without eggs, no means, and especially no workers, these services, whether they are in the area of health, education, the environment, or any other area, cannot guarantee their functions. The lack of health workers, particularly nurses, is perhaps the most grueling, but unfortunately it is not the only one. There is no time to list the shortcomings of all sectors where workers are missing, we highlight two, which are, in our perspective, fundamental to the fight against climate change. We are talking about the shortage of workers at the level of transport and at the level of protected areas. As far as protected areas are concerned, thanks to the Greens, the nature surveillance framework is now strengthened, it is true, but we cannot say the same about the technical and scientific framework. In fact, existing technicians, which are few, very few, waste their time giving advice. Scientific work on the ground, study work for knowledge, for example, of the impacts of climate change on biodiversity, is weakened precisely because of lack of human resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector is decisive in combating climate change and it has been worth the attention of the Greens throughout the entire legislature not only in the defence of more and better transport but also in the struggle for the reopening of railways and services, for the acquisition of rolling stock, for the intermodal pass and also for the hiring of more workers, because the lack of staff is absolutely remarkable. And in the railway area the situation is particularly critical. I recall that, both in the discussions on the new parliamentary framework and in the State budget, the Greens did not tire of alerting the Government to the need and urgency of new contracts, but the Government did not understand that. Now, on the eve of elections, the Prime Minister comes to announce the hiring of more public officials. It is only because we do not understand why it is necessary to wait for elections to hire professionals and why it is not now that these contracts are so necessary. We don't understand! To conclude, we leave here our alert to two sectors that are less visible to voters and therefore less attractive to electoral impulses but not less important to the well-being of populations and to climate change mitigation measures. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u193	Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In such a debate the Socialist Party will certainly not intend to say that everything is done. We have never put ourselves in this position, but we place ourselves in the position of those who have done, not before the elections, but every year, step by step, the work of recovering the public services that is in sight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the case of education, today we have more teachers in public school than we had at the beginning of the legislature. In 2017 / 2018 we had about 10 000 teachers more than at the lowest moment in the previous term. Today we have more non-teaching staff in public school than we had at the beginning of the legislature; alongside the application of the new portfolio of the ratios, we have more than 3,000 new operational assistants. Compared to the beginning of the legislation, we have a few hundred more specialized technicians and the strengthening of professionals in public school has been accompanied by a work of « disenchanting ». In four years, 8000 teachers were linked; the improvement of the norm-work has effect every year and only this year involved the binding of more than 540 teachers. Within the framework of PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Programme of State Precincts ), only regularization tenders already completed cover more than 2600 operational assistants and, still within the framework of PREVPAP, more than 1000 specialized technicians had favourable deliberations of the CAB ( Bipartite Assessment Board ) and when they are linked to a career, which did not happen before. But professionals serve to improve public services, serve to improve service to citizens, and these numbers become very significant realities. For example: the extension of pre-school with more rooms was supported with more educators; more than 500 teachers strengthened the implementation of school action plans to promote school success; thousands of hours in tutoring strengthened support for students; dozens of teachers strengthened the Educational and Artistic Education Program; teacher training centres were strengthened to better monitor the implementation of the new legislation; time credit for the Primary Intervention Educational Territories was strengthened and today schools have more capacity to make choices when it comes to recruiting more hours, and can, for example, choose between teachers or specialist technicians. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nobody will get us to say that everything is done, but we don't confuse ourselves with those who say something out there and here they say something else. A few days ago, the first PSD Vice-President came to criticize this government because it had greatly increased the number of teachers in public school and, for example, criticized the increase in expenditure in vocational education. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u195	Therefore, stop hypocrisy and do not say something out there and here another, because that is not serving public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u196	Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u197	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, I come back to the themes of IEFP and PREVPAP. There were 1200 IEFP workers, trainers, who were identified by themselves—that is, with an opinion that was also approved by your Ministry—as having an irregular link, because they are the false green receipt. But these 1200 workers, all of them, were recognized as having carried out at least one year of the last three, a permanent necessity. The Secretary of State said that the 507 vacancies were measured as determined by law. I do not agree that the 507 vacancies have been defined as determined by the law of PREVPAP, but my question is another: what will be done to the 693 IEFP trainers to the false green receipt that had a positive opinion of the CAB, within the framework of PREVPAP, that will not be vacant? Will they continue to be hired to false green receipts? It is that if this were a scandal, because it would be the state, after identifying that they are false green receipts, keep them in that situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u198	Mr. Deputy, just a moment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the room. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by to sit down or leave the room. You may continue, Mr. José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u199	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, the remaining alternative is to make a contract to these693 trainers, who will certainly not get the false green receipt. I wonder what kind of contract and framework is that they will be made. Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to ask you one last question about RTP : your Ministry, the Ministry of Finance, has 52 opinions of workers who have already been approved, who have already had a positive opinion of the CAB...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u200	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u201	...and they're waiting for approval. I ask you whether the Ministry of Finance will continue to boycott the decisions of the Ministries of Labour and Culture concerning RTP. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u202	Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party it was clear in this debate that workers are the best raw material in the Public Administration. And because they are the best raw material, because they are the mortar of the Public Administration, the Government and the Socialist Party, over these four years, have made these workers valued. There was a replacement of income, there was a concern about its formation, careers were frozen and job insecurity was combated, aiming at better public administration. contrary to the right, the Socialist Party always has social conscience, whether it is in opposition or in government. That is what distinguishes us, we do not separate one from the other, we are consistent in our public policies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u204	Reverting wage cuts, restoring rights, combating precariousness, creating jobs and economic growth, increasing incomes and all social benefits was our priority. Good public policies always yield good results and these good results are seen with more employment, more economic growth and more strengthening also in the Public Administration. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the question of strengthening the public administration, we have said that recently, we want to do even more, we want to do even better and we have already publicly assumed that need and political will. We spoke here about matters of justice, education, health and what we want to say is that we were able to make these revisions and this improvement of incomes, but at the same time we valued public school, teachers and all educational agents, we also strengthened the National Health Service and affirmed justice at the service of citizenship and development. We must remember that we have the lowest rate of procedural expectations over the past 10 years; we must remember that we are the third most secure country in the world; we must also remember that we have placed in the justice system, as already mentioned, more than 1800 officials, that is to say, we have a concern for justice, where, it is worth mentioning, we have reopened 20 courts, contrary to what the right has done, that we have shut down services of sovereignty as important as the courts, creating and reopening, too, judgments of proximity. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u205	It is good to remember that all this was done at the same time with the reinforcement of collective transport. As for the records and notary, we knew that we were starting from a deficit in terms of human resources, but we were not stopped. We know that it is a complex sector, a sector that has more than 612 fronts of care throughout the country and therefore it was necessary to act planly. We therefore acted with a plan to qualify and modernise the building and the records for better management of human resources, and we have done a review, expected for decades, of the status of careers, which we have achieved and fulfilled. It was necessary to strengthen the staff and we strengthened in 2016 by opening competitions to regularize the situation of 120 conservator assistants and 35 technical assistants. The status of careers, now reviewed, will also allow a new logic as regards professional structure. It was necessary to invest and invest with interventions and works that between 2018 and 2023 will be EUR 21 million, with 100 facilities covered and more than 1200 workers will have in the service of the best working conditions registers. at computer level, many computers were replaced—plus 1050 will be replaced in 2019—remembering that in 2018 more than 1600 computers came to strengthen and renew a computer park that was obsolete, recalling that it fit this government—and well! — make this renewal. As regards the issues of the citizenship card, already 12 000 citizens, from May onwards, have benefited from a new and simplified process and in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area 50 new places of service will be created. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must do more and better, but we do not forget that with the Socialist Party the reform of the state does not mean a reduction of workers, as happened with the PSD/CDS government. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u206	For us, state reform is to modernize the Public Administration, it is to open shops of the citizen, as we did, it is to expand the citizen spaces, as we did, it is to be better and more efficient...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u207	I ask you to conclude, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u208	...to meet our citizens, and I fear it. We must not forget that social security has been severely punished by the previous government, we must not forget that justice has been severely punished, as well as education. Let us re-emerge, rebuild and affirm a better Portugal, a better and more qualified public function. This is what we differ in, which makes a difference between the left and the right and, therefore, the Portuguese have believed in us in the European elections and will also believe and trust us in the forthcoming legislative elections, for a better and greater Portugal with the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u209	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall move to the stage of the closure of the debate, and Mr João Oliveira of the CFP's Parliamentary Group has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The objective of this CFP inquiry was clear and met. We want to give a voice to users who every day suffer the damage of the lack of staff in public services and to the workers of such services who are overburdened every day with more work. We have faced the government with the steps it needs to take now to solve this problem. There is an approved State budget, with concrete measures in several areas and solutions for the problem to be overcome. There are money and rules in the State budget that point to this and there is no reason for the government to set targets for the deficit to meet the needs of users and public services. What is required of the Government is to comply with what is decided, to use the State budget to hire workers rather than to use them to satisfy the European Union, harming the rights of citizens. The rights of Portuguese are at the forefront of the European Union's deficit goals and taxes and require public services with adequate numbers of workers and valued in their careers, wages and rights. In assessing how the Government sought to escape its responsibilities in this debate, in particular by not bringing a single minister responding to the Government's options, it seems that the concern is not limited to a campaign speech. If Mr. Prime Minister has already found the promise for the PS electoral programme for the next elections, then he also has the solution to be implemented now, which he is still Prime Minister, and without waiting for the next elections. It is only a matter of political will. Having a desire to solve the problem, the Government is now settling it rather than reducing a promise to be taken by the post-election wind. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The problem of lack of staff in public services is a serious problem and must be considered, with the impact it has on the lives of the country and its users. In health and education, in transport and social security, in justice and in records and notaries, in culture and science, in security forces and services, in agriculture or at the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Forestas), and in so many other areas, there is a structural problem of staff reduction and responsiveness of public services that comes from behind and that has responsible for successive PSD / CDS governments and also PS. Today there are more 24 000 workers than there were at the end of 2014. The problem is that the balance between 2005 and 2019 remains less than 45 000 workers in public services and in some sectors there is not even a positive balance in any period of the last 14 years. This is the legacy of the options of right-wing policy, especially in its versions of the policies of the CEP (Stability and Growth Programme) and the pact of aggression of the troika and its false speech of having more workers in the Public Administration or of being considered as "state fats". The CFP is proud of its consistency in the denunciation and fight that it has given to the measures of those PSD/CDS/PS governments and also of the measures we have put in place in this legislature to reverse this path. In the brake on the dismissal of 700 social security workers pushed for dismissal by the previous PSD/CDS government, through a false process of requalification, in the fight against precariousness through PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regulatory Programme of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ), in the increase of school employees, in the hiring and binding of more teachers, in the hiring of doctors, nurses and operational assistants, among many other examples that we could give here, we found the initiative, proposal and vote of the CFP. We could also give many other examples of staff recruitment measures in public services that were not yet because the PS refused them. We do not expect the PSD and CDS to make a serious contribution to solving this problem, but we demand the PS Government to respond to it. Throughout the Legislature, PSD and CDS opposed all the proposals and measures adopted to solve the problem of lack of staff and voted against all budgets containing employee recruitment measures, which reduced while in government. Today, they appear with a speech of pretense concerns only because it gives them the way to make the speech of chaos waiting to collect election gains. We expect nothing from PSD and CDS in this debate and we do not stop asking the PS government for responsibility. The PS Government did not lack the votes of the CFP for the necessary measures to be adopted, the PS Government did not lack measures in the State budgets for the problem to be solved, the PS Government did not lack the proposals of the CFP for the public services to have the workers needed to serve the users with quality and timeliness. Only the PS Government has failed the political will to implement the necessary measures, and this is the will that we demand today so that the problems will not be solved by after October, so that they will still be resolved in this Parliament. As we have done throughout the legislature, also in relation to the hiring of workers for public services we will continue to demand that the government in each area, in each sector, in each service, the concrete measures to respond to the problem, move forward with the necessary measures — those that are planned and those that are still necessary to approve — because the way is to move forward, it is not to go back. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u211	To close the debate, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Francisco Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u212	Mr President, I am grateful for your tolerance and adaptability so that I can respond to the PSD Parliamentary Group, as mentioned above, which does not find the 10,800 employees in the meantime. This was the state of calamity in which they left the National Health Service four years ago that, 10,800 employees later, they still don't find them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But they exist. I'm talking only about doctors and nurses: plus 25 doctors and about 60 nurses in Évora's hospital, where, in fact, it's true that after a risk of legionella, there are patients taking, in part of the hospital, cold water bath,... [[PSD protests.]] ... which, in fact, could have been resolved if you hadn't frozen the project of the new hospital, whose competition, to communicate to you, will be opened next July, so that we will definitely solve these installation problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Ah! Now it's gonna be!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u213	But there are also more doctors and nurses in the Algarve, in all hospitals; they exist, with numbers you already know, which have already been provided in detail. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u214	You have the floor to continue the intervention to close the debate, using the time of the Government, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: throughout this Parliament, this Government, this collective of Ministers and Secretaries of State, has made the appropriate choices as well as preparing for the future of the Public Administration. We want a strong social state and we know that investing in public administration is investing in the future of the country and Portuguese. It is essential to prepare public services to deal with the challenges of the future of work and to provide people with the right skills to respond to the needs of citizens and businesses, and it is essential to make sustainable, budgetaryly responsible investments and taken into account the levels of permanent expenditure that are bearable and that return in terms of the motivation of the workers and the quality of the service. We manage the present by preparing the future. That is why, together with the resumption of normal career progressions and promotions, re-established in this legislature only in two years, the Government intends to make the Public Administration more attractive and reaffirms its commitment to the provision of the public services of the workers needed to carry out their missions. But this is a path that is not made instantly, because it is a path of recovery of a huge liability, caused by the disinvestment in public services in the previous legislature and which removed a very significant part of the fundamental human capital for the State's performance. This is a path that must be sustainable. Therefore, no decision can be made without context analysis and no previous evaluation, because only with balanced options can we build a path without risk of backwardness, knowing that the models that served in the past will hardly serve the future. It is with this conviction that the Government has assumed, in the State Budget Act for 2019, the multiannual forecast of effective public administration, a forecast that must be carried out on the basis of evidence, based on knowledge of the effective needs of each government area, assessed not only considering the linear replacement of workers in relation to the projection of retirements but also depending on the future of professions, the expected development of service missions, the needs they serve, and the improvement of processes provided by digital means and collaboration. Only in this way will it be possible to ensure an effective global sustainable public administration and its balanced distribution by the various sectors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is always a lot to do, but that does not make us underestimate what has been done or ignore the challenges. We can't just recruit more workers. It is essential to provide them with good working conditions, in their physical and psychosocial dimensions, with a competent, positive and mobilising management. And, yes, we know that human resources management policy is not exhausted from hiring, so we are going further.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u216	You can give the risk allowance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u217	We follow the major transformations that have come to take place in public administrations and in people's management models, to combine decent work and sustainability of services, mobilization work and capacity for the performance of services, sustainable work and innovation in public services,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with a set of strategically oriented policies, making the right and responsible choices, in permanent dialogue, with demands in the objectives, with the ability to evaluate the results, so that the future is built once again solidly and without setbacks. We respect dialogue and political combat, but we fully understand our role. It is the role that the Portuguese hope for a democratic government, responsible and with humanist values, the role of guaranteeing the sustainability of the country, social justice, equality between workers and the promotion of a future with prospects for all. So we do not give in to judgment, comparative, hasty, superficial. We choose to make conscious and informed choices, which they think of today's improvement and are focused on tomorrow's day assurance. That is our commitment, that is the word we honour before all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u218	We are thus at the end of this debate. the second item on our agenda is, without time for discussion, the Draft Resolution No. 2193 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, PAN and Deputies Unregistered Paulo Trigo Pereira ) — Establish the 22nd of June as National Day of Religious Freedom and Inter-Religious Dialogue, with no time allocated for discussion. It follows the third item on our agenda, that there are also, without time for discussion, the Drafts of Resolution 90 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multilateral convention for the application of measures on tax conventions to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits adopted in Paris on 24 November 2016, 92 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Air Services Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Korea, signed in Seoul on 25 May 2018, 93 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves Convention No 188 on work in the fisheries sector adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in its 96. the Session, held in Geneva, on 14 June 2007, and 94 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Instrument for Amendment to the Constitution of the International Labour Organization adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 72. the Session, held in Geneva on 24 June 1986. on the fourth and last items of our agenda are those of the vote on the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 199 presences to which 3 are added by the Members. Mr João Vasconcelos and Mr Sandra Cunha, the Left Block Parliamentary Group, and Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group, making a total of 202 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 845 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by a PS member ) — Despite the death of Isaura Assumption Silva Borges Coelho, which will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u219	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Isaura Assumption da Silva Borges Coelho, was born in Portimão, on June 20, 1926, and died last day 11, at the age of 93. Isaura Borges Coelho was a fighter for women's rights and, in particular, for the rights of nurses, especially for better working conditions in hospitals, against 12-hour hours, the rare days of strike, continuous candles and the worst conditions of nurse feeding and living conditions in institutions. Isaura Borges Coelho played a decisive role in the fight against the ban on the marriage of nurses, having stood out in the fight against the 12 nurses dismissed for defying the prohibition of marriage imposed on this professional group by the fascist regime. Isaura Borges Coelho was a prominent activist of the MUD Youth, recognized as leader of the nurses' struggle. Having been arrested in 1953 by the PIDE is brutally beaten, subject to a long period of isolation. Convicted by the plenary tribunal, she was only released in 1957, following a national and international movement for her release. After his release, he joined the PCP and, in 1962, married, in the Forte de Peniche, with the historian António Borges Coelho who was there imprisoned. After 25 April he participated in the construction of democratic Portugal, integrated the health sector of the Regional Organisation of Lisbon of the PCP and was delegated union of the Union of Portuguese Nurses in the Motherhood Alfredo da Costa, in Lisbon, until retirement. In 2002 she was thanked with the Order of Freedom by President Jorge Sampaio. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Isaura Assumption Silva Borges Coelho and address to her husband, Professor António Borges Coelho, her daughter, Dr. Sonia Borges Coelho, and to the PCP her condolences.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u220	The President of the Assembly of the Republic is also associated with this regret vote. Let's vote for the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 847 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PSD ) — regretting in memory of the victims of the communist regime of the German Democratic Republic, which Secretary Pedro Alves will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It makes particular sense today to recall that, on 16 June 1953, a popular uprising began in the German Democratic Republic, which was insurmounted by the draconian working conditions imposed by the Soviet regime on the population of the German Democratic Republic. As a result of the demonstrations brutally suppressed by the forces of power, approximately 55 citizens died, as soldiers were urged to shoot on the unarmed population. The number of injuries, undetermined, was equally overwhelming. At the same time, thousands of citizens have been arrested, many of whom have been sentenced to high effective prison sentences and there have also been citizens who have been sentenced to the death penalty, which shows total disrespect for basic human rights such as the right to strike and manifesto. The popular survey only ended on the 23rd day of the same month after demonstrations took place in about 500 localities. These events were essential in the spirit of the population for the final victory against the Soviet oppressive regime, years later. The memory of all the citizens who have lost their lives and have been seriously wounded, as well as the future of human rights defence, must be respected above all and any ideological difference, and democracies must promote the education of younger generations in the observance of these values, particularly when there are currently protest movements where millions of citizens cry out in the streets for freedom and democracy, against totalitarian systems. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to all victims of the communist regime during the popular uprising in the German Democratic Republic in 1953, renewing its commitment not to forget and to, by preserving the memory, uphold the fundamental value of democracy».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u222	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and abstentions by BE and The Greens.]] Let us now vote vote No 848 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — Regret for the victims of femicide. Mr. Secretary Moisés Ferreira will do the favor of reading this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The reality confirms again what is the most revealing phrase of our inability, as a society, to eradicate social cancer, which is domestic violence. It's the most murdering crime in Portugal. Only in 2019 are 18 fatal victims already added in the context of domestic violence. Most of these victims, 16, are women, confirming that it is a crime that bears the gender brand. Over the past 15 years more than 500 women have already died in the hands of male violence, an average of 35 women murdered per year. The last murdered woman, like so many others before her, had already asked for help and complained twice of violence that had been dragged since 2017. The inability to respond to these victims, to guarantee them protection and security is intolerable and unacceptable. But domestic violence, being a crime that lies in a patriarchal culture of violence and domination over women, also necessarily affects children. Intolerable is also the persistent contempt of violence that is exercised on children, whether they are directly targeted by them, whether they witness or live with them. This last femicide left another orphan child. In the same period of 15 years, more than 1000 children were orphaned as a mother. It is urgent for these children to be looked at as victims of the same crime and, above all, for society and the competent bodies to ensure their protection and security. Almost 20 years ago it was registered to ensure that this crime was a matter of everyone and everyone. All this time there is still everything to do, so many women and so many children to protect. For every woman who dies in the hands of macho violence, for every child who is subjected to this terrible violence, we have the ultimate responsibility to denounce and condemn, but also, necessarily, to do more and better. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret for all the victims of femicide and other fatal victims of domestic violence in 2019 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u224	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u225	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u226	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u227	Mr President, it is only to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u228	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on vote No 849 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and subscribed by PS Members ) — Grief and condemnation of deaths and violence in Sudan. To read this vote, Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The UN this week warned of ‘serious abuse’ by the Sudan Military Council following the dismissal of President Omar al-Bashir. The press reports more than 100 people killed, 70 people raped and over 500 injured. The reports point to the violence exercised by the army and militias, which include individual and collective violations of protesters, human rights activists and hospital officials in Katum, who treated the wounded. We therefore add our voice to the UN Special Envoy for Sexual Violence in Conflicts, Pramila Patten, which requires ‘ the immediate and complete cessation of all violence against civilians, including sexual violence. ’ The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret for the victims and its firm condemnation of all kinds of violence perpetrated against Sudanese civilians and calls for peaceful dialogue among all the forces involved in the conflict'.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u230	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute's silence on these four votes. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. Following our vote, we proceeded to vote on vote No 846 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP ) — Condemnation and solidarity for the recent attack against two Republican National Guard military. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u231	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u232	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u233	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u234	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on the Draft Deliberation No 26 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 2193 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira ) — Established June 22 as National Day of Religious Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 90 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Multilateral Convention for the Implementation of Measures on Tax Conventions to Prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits adopted in Paris on 24 November 2016. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on resolution No 92 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Services between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Korea, signed in Seoul on 25 May 2018. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 93 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves Convention No 188 on work in the fisheries sector adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation in its 96. the session was held in Geneva on 14 June 2007. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on resolution No 94 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Instrument for Amendment to the Constitution of the International Labour Organization adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 72. the Session, held in Geneva on 24 June 1986. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are now voting on draft resolution No 1708 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the RA Resolution No 232 / 2017 of 20 September, act with the Canadian authorities to expedite the procedures necessary for the increase in the import quota provided for in the CETA. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PAN and abstentions from PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u235	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u236	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u237	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u238	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2061 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and effective measures in the responses of day care centres and homes of elderly people to children and descendants of Portuguese and Luso-descendants returning to or entering Portugal from Venezuela. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u239	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u240	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u241	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u242	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an emergency programme for the valorisation of museums, palaces, monuments and archaeological sites. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u243	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u244	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u245	Mr President, to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u246	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 2071 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends measures to the Government to deal with the crisis in the textile sector. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS and PS abstentions.]] This draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 2098 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to defend the textile and clothing sector in the areas of Ave and Cávado. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS and PS abstentions.]] This draft resolution is down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 2134 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Creation of the National Network of Resistance Museums and installation of the Museum of Resistance and Freedom in Port. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] This draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u247	We proceed with the general vote on draft resolution No 2137 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the relocation of the Port Military Museum to implement the « From Heroism to Firmeza — Museum of Antifascist Resistance of the Port ». [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] This draft resolution is down to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u248	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u249	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u250	Mr President, that is to say, for the two previous votes, the PSD will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u251	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now have the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 126 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the processing of data relating to the judicial system. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u252	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u253	Mr. Deputies, is it for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u254	Mr President, it is only to announce a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u255	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-21.u256	We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 181 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes the regime for the settlement of disputes between judicial courts and administrative and tax courts, regulating the composition, competence, functioning and proceedings before the Court of Conflict. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 182 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure by accepting the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 191 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1981 and 1985. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now have the general vote on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 170 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs permitted uses of works for the benefit of blind persons by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1564 and describes the unauthorized public execution of commercially edited phonograms and videograms. The Government has withdrawn its initiative in favour of this replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] With regard to this replacement text, we shall vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes carried out in the special session of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of this replacement text on the Proposal for a Law No 170 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 1028 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organization of the Judicial System ) : add the jurisdiction of the Court of Intellectual Property. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have thus reached the end of the vote. The next plenary meeting is on Wednesday, 26 June, at 3 p.m., with the Government Appeal No 31 / XIII / 4. a (BE) on the sustainability of social security and respect for a working life. Thank you all, good weekend and until that day. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 56 minutes.]]
