ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Before we enter the first item on the agenda, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u2	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to inform you that Mr President has admitted Bill No 173 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — regulates the operation of unmanned civil aircraft systems ( drones ) in national airspace, which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, and 174 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Reforms and expands the Information System of the State Organization ( SIOE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and Bills Nos 1067 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Legal arrangements for packaging supplied in commercial areas, which fall to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 1068 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Allocation to environmental health technicians of public health units the collection of water samples in the context of environmental research in the identification of sources of contamination and dissemination of Legionella ( The first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August 2018, establishes the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires'disease ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. a and 9. a Commissions, 1069 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — establishes the legal regime applicable to the impact assessment of regulatory acts in the production, maintenance, worsening or reduction and eradication of poverty, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1070 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 466 / 99 of 6 November 1999 eliminating the possibility of reducing the value of the blood price pension when this result in the death of a disabled armed forces, which lowers 10. the Commission, in connection with 3. the Commission, 1071 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Extends the time limit for claiming or challenging the IMI, and amends Article 129. that of the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 from 12 November, which goes down to 5. the Commission, and 1072 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Amend Article 11. the -A of the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 from 12 November, which falls to 5. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos 1932 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary inquiries to ensure that all spaces included in the Natura 2000 Network are properly preserved and preserved, which falls to 11. the Commission, 1933 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government account for the evaluation obtained by the former military in the years in which they performed functions in the Armed Forces, after entering the Public Administration, for the purposes of the integrated management and performance assessment system in the Public Administration ( SIADAP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 3. the Commission, 1934 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of monitoring and the definition of protective measures for the habitat of Ria Formosa, 1935 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Consecrates the memory of the three members of the Congress of the Portuguese Republic who died as a result of fighting in the Great War of 1914 - 18, which drops to 3. the Commission, 1936 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad and deep national debate on the reorganization of teaching cycles and the realization of a deep curriculum reorganization, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1937 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Universality of public school in Fátima parish, 1938 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government revise the curriculum programme of the mid-term study discipline of 1. The Basic Education Cycle, 1939 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — National Investment Programme 2030, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1940 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing road risk on bicycle users, which falls to 6. the Commission, 1941 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen palliative care, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1942 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Human resources planning in the health sector, which falls to 9. the Commission. Mr President, I would also like to inform the House about the results of the elections that took place at the last plenary session. As regards the election of a Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, the following result was found: 213 Members were voted, with 170 votes 'yes'recorded, 33 white votes and 10 null votes, and Mrs Sandra Maria Pereira Pontedeira ( PS ) was declared elected. For the post of Vice-Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, the following result was found: 213 Members were voted, with 168 votes « yes » recorded, 35 white votes and 10 null votes, and Mrs Ana Sofia Ferreira Araújo ( PS ) declared elected. For the Supreme Council of Cyberspace Security, the following result was found: they voted on the same 213 Members, and 136 votes 'yes' were recorded, 54 white votes and 23 null votes were voted on to that effect. Deputies António Carlos Sousa Gomes da Silva Peixoto ( PSD ) and José Manuel Santos de Magalhães ( PS ). As far as the Internal Security Council is concerned, the result was that 213 Members were voted on, with 145 votes « yes », 53 white votes and 15 null votes, and therefore Mr Fernando José dos Santos Anastácio ( PS ) declared to be elected. With regard to the National Council for the Processing of Assisted Medicinal Products, the following result was found: they voted the same 213 Members, and 153 votes 'yes' were recorded, 44 white votes and 16 null votes, and so candidate Helena Pereira de Melo was considered elected. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I would like to begin by congratulating the new members of the Bureau who were elected, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira and Mrs Ana Sofia Araújo, as well as Mr Fernando Anastácio, who was elected to the Internal Security Council in a difficult election, not by the number of votes now obtained, but by what happened before. I would also like to congratulate the honourable Members. Members who were elected to the Supreme Council for Security of Cyberspace, Mr António Carlos Sousa Gomes da Silva Peixoto and Mr José Manuel Santos de Magalhães. Let us then enter the first item on the agenda, dedicated to the evocation of Francisco de Oliveira Dias, former President of the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we recall the memory of Dr. Francisco de Oliveira Dias, former President of the Assembly of the Republic, who disappeared last Monday at 88 years. We do so in plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, a sovereign body which you chaired between 1981 and 1982, was still young our democracy, which was also yours, because it owes it much to you, having been the founding father of it. We do so in the presence of your family, to whom, at this difficult time, I reiterate the manifestation of the most meaningful grief, in my name and on behalf of all those present, especially to Mrs. Maria Teresa Forjaz de Oliveira Dias, her sons and daughters, grandchildren and grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dr. Francisco de Oliveira Dias was a Member of the Constituent Assembly of 1975 - 1976, during which he actively participated in the preparation of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It was because of this precisely honoured participation by the Assembly of the Republic — by all of us — at the beginning of this legislature, when I gave it the status of Mr Honorary, a manifestation of our gratitude for the services provided to Parliament and democracy. Elected Member of the Assembly of the Republic in 1976, was subsequently re-elected until 1983, assuming, between 22 October 1981 and 2 November 1982, the presidency of Parliament, following the Vasco da Gama Fernandes, the Theófilo Carvalho dos Santos and Leonardo Ribeiro de Almeida. And even though his election was not easy, he was a good President, bearing in mind the respect and admiration of his peers and of the officials of Parliament, some of them still at the service of the Assembly of the Republic, especially in the discreet and rigorous manner as he took office. As a Member of Parliament, he proposed a wide range of diplomas, from the indigenous domain to the area of historical heritage, through the autonomy of universities or through the teaching of the language and dissemination of Portuguese culture abroad. It incorporated the first delegation of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and was a member of its Committee on Education and Culture. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to remind you of your friendly presence in the initiatives developed by Parliament, both in major conferences and exhibitions, and in the solemn sessions of the Assembly of the Republic. Guardo do Dr. Oliveira Days the memory of a committed citizen, active civically and politically, with remarkable presence and participation in the great debates promoted by Portuguese society, the nobility and the verticality of his character, faithful to the values that guided his long life, until the last of his days. In the memory of a great democrat and a citizen to whom Parliament and the Republic owe much. I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to read Vote No 706 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Despite the death of the former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Oliveira Dias. Please, Mr. Secretary
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u4	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The death of Dr. Francisco de Oliveira Dias, at 88 years of age, eludes Parliament and Portuguese democracy. He was a professional doctor, a diligent builder and discreet worker of democracy. He participated in the foundation of the CDS, a party of which he was the leader, and was a Constituent Member and then a Member of Parliament between 1976 and 1983. In 1981, he was elected President of the Assembly of the Republic. His surrender to democracy led to tragic personal consequences, particularly when, at a particularly difficult time for the Constituent Assembly, the mother of his 11 children, Maria das Mercês Gil Oliveira Dias, suffered a fatal heart accident. You will marry Maria Teresa Forjaz de Oliveira Dias, with whom you lived until the end of your life. Taking over as President of the Assembly of the Republic, Oliveira Dias pointed out that this House is ‘ much more than we, Members who pass by, while it remains and will remain, rejuvenate, improve’. And, in this follow-up, he was always a friend of the parliamentary regime, who would not stop praising and promoting. He recalled that if the Members thought differently and took opposing positions, that was healthy, ‘because when it does not occur or men are sick or the under-reliefed homelands’. He was always a good and faithful man, who made bridges, without ever giving up his convictions and values. Catholic committed, sought — in Parliament, in the Council of State or in civil society — first and foremost to defend the dignity of the human person. In his death, his friends and those who were closest to him remember the example of who always fought with courage and hope, of whom, even in the face of the greatest difficulties, he never lost not only a great combativity, as a huge sense of humor. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses condolences to the family and friends of its former President, Dr. Oliveira Dias, for the loss of a Portuguese who has dignified, honored and built our country and democracy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Matos Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is a trace that defines the life of Francisco de Oliveira Dias is that of his dedication to the public cause. Of course, as a doctor, a profession that he embraced in 1953 and practiced in several institutions, with emphasis on the Hospital Pulido Valente. The hospital, which, with the normality and tranquility that is the grip of exemplary citizens, returned in 1985 when it understood to put an end to its political life. It was precisely this devotion to the public cause and the sense of mission associated with it that led it to participate in a very important and committed way in the construction of democratic Portugal. First, in 1974, as a founding member of the CDS, in whose executive committee, he participated ; then in 1975 and 1976, when in the Constituent Assembly he contributed, with his commitment, to the elaboration of the new Basic Law ; and finally between 1976 and 1983, during which he served as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic. It may be said that it was short the period in which his life focused on political activity, but the prestige that he earned - he was assigned to the functions of President of the Assembly of the Republic, which he held between October 1981 and November 1982. His intelligence, his character, his absolute respect for the difference, his concern in building consensus made him an example. An example that marked those with whom he had the privilege of collaborating and an example that is also left for our political and parliamentary history. And it should not be forgotten, because it is relevant, that it was during the period of your presidency here that some of the structural laws of our constitutional system have been produced, such as the first constitutional review, the first national defence law, or the law of the Constitutional Court. As a citizen, but also as a politician, they moved - in fundamental values and concerns: the affirmation of the dignity of the human person, the defense of freedom, the strengthening of democracy, then still very young among us. But within the framework of their first concerns, it was also the appreciation of the Parliamentary institution as a central element of political representation. this is an example, among many others, of the words you spoke in your first speech as President of the Assembly of the Republic, which I now understand should be brought here again. And I quote: "It is from the knowledge and experience of all of us that in the slow maturation of the stability and prestige of democratic institutions the Assembly of the Republic lives again a delicate time. It has its incomparable and irreplaceable place in the hierarchy and in the functioning of the State. But for one reason or another, from here or there, there are those who argue a lot about it, which is normal, but there are also those who accuse it and attack it very much. from here it is sometimes passed to clear or hidden positions that ultimately undermine its usefulness, its dignity, its power, in sum, its existence. And often, in order to attack the institution, they are despicable, they put themselves on the sidelines of the opinion and they attack the Members. (...) We are in the first line of those who are available, by all legitimate means at our disposal, to break once again the vicious circle of routine and the endless campaign against this institution. With the conviction that, through difficulty, adversity and insidiousness, this is a duty that we have to fulfil. Do not keep on seeking. ” at a time when, a little across the world, on the left and on the right, new breath wins the populist and demagogic speech of attack on Parliament, the words of Francisco de Oliveira Dias are, for all of us, a call to the need to halt, with determination and without fear, a battle we must win. in this moment of sadness, the PSD Parliamentary Group presents to its proud family and its always party, the CDS, the expression of its deepest respect and admiration by Francisco de Oliveira Dias, and its most sorry senses.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u7	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The circumstances of Dr. Francisco de Oliveira Dias have been elected Constituent-Constituent to assure him, from then on, and by that fact, a place in the history of Portuguese democracy. But this place that he conquered was not due to a mere formal act, it was also the result of what he was able to print in his public and personal life. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group joins in spite of the fact that the Assembly of the Republic will manifest itself, highlighting the example of discretion and rigour which Mr President has just mentioned. I did not personally have the gratifying satisfaction of depriving Dr. Francisco de Oliveira Dias, but there are unanimous testimonies that arrive from such a proficient legislator, an unclean, good and complete citizen, as the vote of regret presented by the CDS-PP. And we can mention and emphasize the position that has always been relevant at times that, undeniably, in Portuguese history, had a resonance that would at the time be even more necessary to emphasize, which are the mark of democratic tolerance and the affirmation of the value of the diversity of opinions. In summary, we can say, without any hesitation, that, with the civic example of Dr. Francisco de Oliveira Dias, Parliament has prestigious itself and that is the note that the Socialist Party wants to leave frozen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u9	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block is associated with this vote of regret for the death of Dr. Oliveira Dias. We do not, as a party, have a history that goes back to the period when Dr. Oliveira Dias was President of the Assembly of the Republic, but we associate ourselves with this vote of regret for the memory and the mark of democratic tolerance and respect for all the forces present in Parliament by Dr. Oliveira Dias, at the time when he was President, as we are told in the writings and witness evidence to which we had access. From that point of view, we clearly have to assume the loss of someone who has always respected Parliament as House of Democracy and who has done so as President of the Assembly of the Republic, respecting all political forces, is also a loss to democracy in our country. So I end by telling the CDS, the Party of Dr. Oliveira Dias, that we associate ourselves with its loss, being also directed to the party while clearly conveying to the family our word of solidarity at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u11	I call on the CFP Parliamentary Group Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group is associated with the expression of regret taken by the Assembly of the Republic on the occasion of the death of the former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Francisco de Oliveira Dias, who took on roles in a particularly complex period of our political life and our national life, the AD Government ( Democratic Alliance ). It was also the first President of the Assembly of the Republic elected by a parliamentary group that was not the most voted in the Assembly of the Republic. The political and ideological differences with the Portuguese Communist Party have been profound, but this does not prevent us from registering what was the exercise of the functions of President of the Assembly of the Republic and which, on our part, deserves full respect. Therefore, we address the family and its party, the CDS, with the expression of our sorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u13	I have the floor by the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having not lived with Dr. Francisco Oliveira Dias, nor as President of the Assembly of the Republic nor as Member of this House, however, I do not want to stop, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to express the sincere condolences to your family and friends of Dr. Oliveira Dias, former Member of this Assembly and former President of the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, I wanted to say that the Greens Ecological Party is associated with the vote of regret for the death of the former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Oliveira Dias, presented by the CDS-PP, his always party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u15	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this moment when we remember Dr. Francisco Oliveira Dias, I wanted to leave, on behalf of the CDS, a word of great gratitude, which address your entire family. Thank you for having the courage to founded our party, a Christian-Democrat-inspired party, a centrist party, at a time when the country fell to the left and it was difficult to have a different voice. Thank you for being a living example of making a policy based on respect for all, that your presidency of this House of the Republic was the live portrait. He has always presided with impartiality and respect for all party forces. Today, I would also like to thank all the speeches, which well illustrate this respect and the way in which we are doing politics and presiding over Parliament. He has always respected differences but also sought consensus and bridges. As President of the Assembly of the Republic, his great commitment was the constitutional review of 1982, which he considered essential for the moderation and democratization of the regime. Man of faith, committed Catholic, deep humanist of solid convictions, Francisco Oliveira Dias has been committed, since the first hour, to the construction of our democracy. He was elected to the Constituent, where he was a particularly active Member, supported the siege of Parliament in 1975, which touched him sadly, unheard of, with the death of his wife Mercês. He was with 11 children and only a few years later he rebuilt his life with his wife Teresa, also from the foundation of the CDS, who accompanied him to the end. He felt the pain of losing a child, but the immense joy of 28 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren. We congratulate everyone today, as well as their party partners and friends of all time. Who deprived Francisco Oliveira Dias speaks of an intelligent, discreet, serene man with a great sense of humor. He who knew his faith emphasizes the man who always served others, in politics or in the exercise of his profession as a cardiologist, in the certainty that his first mission was that of the service. I crossed with Dr. Francisco Oliveira Days for the first time in 2011, when he accepted, with great generosity, to chair the Commission of Honor of my candidacy the Member of Parliament for the circle of Leiria, his land, and moved to Porto de Mós to participate in a campaign event and share with us those early times of the CDS. I also personally owe you that gratitude. At the beginning of this year, in the message of World Peace Day, Pope Francis points out that "the good policy is at the service of peace; it respects and promotes fundamental human rights, which are also reciprocal duties for a bond of trust and gratitude between the generations of the present and the future." I'm sure Francisco Oliveira Dias has fulfilled these words. We know, on the CDS today and tomorrow, how to honor your testimony.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u17	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 706 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Despite the death of the former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Oliveira Dias. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of political declarations, and today we start with the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the CFP has repeatedly stated, the postal services are an irreplaceable instrument for the social, economic and territorial cohesion of our country. More than a company that guarantees profits and dividends, postal services must be the guarantor of a public service effectively at the service of the country and the population, at the service of the national economy and development, with a management that aims at economic-financial balance and investment in quality improvement. However, the truth is that all these objectives led to the degradation and dismantling of public service on behalf of millions of shareholders on the way to privatization of CTTs (Correios de Portugal, SA ). In 2013 the PSD/CDS government realized an old aspiration of monopoly capital that had been prepared by successive governments, including that of the PS, and thus the privatization of TTCs was made. The results are in sight and are truly disastrous, deepening the path of destruction that has been going on for years. Already in the TTC accounts of the first half of last year, the last available figures showed the size of the offensive that private management is carrying out: fewer mail stations, less 169 workers, when compared to the same date of the previous year. in this period, the TTC distributed EUR 57 million by its shareholders—such as the Champalimaud family, large European banks or the Blackrock stock fund—a value that exceeds twice last year's profits. Workers'wages have come down in real terms and continued to destroy jobs, which has been a constant since 2012. Even for the local and regional press, as the CFP has already warned in this House, the measures imposed by TTC in the collection and distribution of mail are creating serious problems of conditioning, risk of loss of subscribers, conditions of distribution getting worse. The situation is even more serious in view of the picture described and portrayed in the important publication of ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) of the last day 10, on the density of the postal network and minimum offers of services. In 2013, the year of privatization of TTCs, in all 308 municipalities in the country there was at least one post station.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u19	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u20	this year, for the first time, there began to be councils without any station: Gavião and Pedrogão Grande. In 2018, it launched a new offensive and the number of municipalities without any post station increased from 2 to 33, and according to ANACOM, it is expected that this number may, in the short term, reach the 48 municipalities — more than 15 % of all the municipalities in the country. This is just one of the many serious elements that demonstrate the unacceptable situation that we are checking. ANACOM refers to the complaints and alerts of workers' organizations of the CTT, local authorities, autonomous regions, of all parties or parliamentary groups on the scandalous situation that is being verified and identifies the problems that are at stake, in matters ranging from secrecy and protection of private life to the poor provision of postal services, through irregularities in the hours of operation, or even by the lack of prior understanding with the authorities in the abrupt closure of services. This situation reveals the tragic consequences of the privatization of TTCs registered in the PS-signed aggression pact, PSD and CDS with the foreign troika and then realized by the PSD/CDS government. It has proved to be a tactic for the country that has lost the postal public service and for the populations, in particular those of the interior, who have been handed over to their own fate in front of a private company that only serves their profits without concern about the consequences of the decisions it makes. It is not acceptable for the Government to make proclamations on the development of the interior and the rural world and then to witness, impeded and serene, the destruction of postal service, the abandonment of populations, all on behalf of the profit of the economic groups that took account of the TTCs. This is unacceptable and requires that the Government assume its responsibilities, through this process, reverse the path of degradation of postal service provided by TTCs and ensure investment in public postal service corresponding to its consideration as developmental lever, in particular by regaining public control of TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u22	It is to address these issues with the Government that the CFP will require the presence of the Minister of Planning and Infrastructure to the Parliamentary Commission, because this is above all a problem of political responsibility and political options, which must be put at the level of returning the TTCs to the condition of national public enterprise. in this sense, the PCP will also present a new initiative, a bill, by the public management of the company. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The post offices, over five centuries, have ensured the provision of postal services under conditions that have allowed them to grow appreciation for the generality of citizens and all the entities they have resorted to. It goes far from the year 1606, when King Philip II, III of Castile, sold the post of Mail-Mor of the Kingdom for 70,000 Crusades. The post office was submitted for almost 200 years to the interests of a fidalgo who placed and had the title until a new royal decree finally re-entered the postal service in the State. The new fidalguia which in this twenty-first century bought our post, not for 70 000 crusades, but for EUR 909 million, launched a new wave of assault on public service, attempting to reduce the CTTs to a bank licence. Today, like 400 years ago, there are those who take advantage of the tide of interference, aggression to the people and betrayal to the national interest to raise millions with the sacrifices of the country. They continue to live above our possibilities and, no matter what we give them, they will always say that it is not enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u23	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u24	But today, as always, there are those who do not give up fighting and defending the rights of people and workers, national interest, territorial cohesion, sovereignty itself. Inevitable is the struggle, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. The Posts will be back to be of the people and it is in the first line of this struggle that is, and will continue to be, the Communist Party Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u25	Mr President, the Bureau records five entries of Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u26	Mr President, I will respond first to the first two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, then the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u27	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u28	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to begin by welcoming you for bringing the CTTs to debate. In fact, the Greens are also going to make a political statement on this issue today, and two political statements on the TCCs well attest to the importance of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u30	Mr Bruno Dias, as you have pointed out, this privatisation by the PSD and the CDS has brought very negative consequences not only for the State but also for the populations and also for the workers. When we look at the numbers, we realize that in 2017, for example, CTTlucrou company EUR 27 million, but distributed twice as much by the shareholders. In other words, EUR 57 million was distributed only in one year. But more: from privatization to the end of 2018, EUR 329 million has been distributed into dividends, i.e. four times as much as its own social capital. If we take into account that in just five years the traffic has fallen 23 % and that nevertheless the profits have remained, we are tempted to conclude that who « sells goats and goats does not have anywhere he comes»! And where do the profits come from? There is, of course, the decapitalisation of the company, the failure to comply with the obligations of the concession contract, in particular the closures to which you referred, but also the atrocity which is being made to the rights of CTT workers and, finally, the brutal increase in the cost of normal mail which between 2013 and 2017 has experienced a 56 % increase, with serious damage to the populations. Mr Bruno Dias, on closures at the time of privatisation, the TTCs held the largest territorial presence network in the country, consisting of 2300 balconies. Today, that's what you know! It is not surprising, therefore, that throughout this process we have witnessed an tireless struggle on the part of the people, of the workers in order to claim a postal service in accordance with the country's needs. Therefore, in our view, what matters is to reverse this process, as Mr Bruno Dias defends, but we believe that, in addition, it was important to ascertain the responsibilities for the damage caused to the country and to the people with this decision to privatize the TTCs. I would like to know whether the honourable Member is accompanying us on this. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u31	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, wanted to begin by quoting the Secretary-General of the Portuguese Communist Party, Jerome of Sousa, who uses expressions as « crocodile tears ». That's what the Portuguese Communist Party came here to do: cry crocodile tears. It's not new that hate, that attack on the capital. It is not new this intention of the Portuguese Communist Party to do this exercise of crocodile tears and, even, of some—I will try to find a sympathetic term—bust, to be cordial, to the electorate and to the Portuguese people. The Portuguese Communist Party does not need a political declaration to say that it will present an initiative, which is not new, or to say that it is against privatization, which is not new, and that it defends CTTs, a public postal service. What I can no longer see is how the Portuguese Communist Party can vote three budgets, do the government support business and not put it as a condition to support the reversal of the privatization of TTCs. He approves everything, he votes for everything, he accepts the degradation of the quality of public services, but then he passes the Budget, rips the clothes and ai, ai, that there is a problem. But I am going further: the national troika, of which you are part, did not have the courage to quote all the numbers, but it was in 2018 that a significant increase in closures in the TTCs were made. It says ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) — in that principle that everyone had to agree that there was at least one post of post in each county seat — says that in the first quarter of 2018 6 councils were closed in the third quarter of 2018, 10 and at the end of 2018 the number of municipalities without post stations went to 33. What did the PCP do? Nothing! Crocodile tears! After that time, he now says: “This can’t be! » and talk about capital, profits... but where were you going? Oh, my God! To approve the budget of this Government! The problem is not the company's capital, Mr. Deputies, but the incompetence of the government that does not control the public service contract...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u34	...and the regulator, because a bad, incompetent regulator is very expensive to the Portuguese. What we should be discussing, because by 2020 the concession contract ends, is what are the quality of service criteria we want to have, what are the positions that must exist. Is the Portuguese Communist Party, or not, in favour of the autonomy of local power?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u35	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u36	I will finish, Mr. President. Everyone knows that many of these posts that are closed are in accordance with the parish boards and with the municipal chambers. Is the Portuguese Communist Party, or is it not, in favour of the autonomy of local power and its decision? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u37	You have the floor to answer, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unfortunately, are increasingly the people who, giving in to the impulses of demagogy and populism, have the conviction that in politics they are all the same, that in the Assembly of the Republic they are all the same, have the same attitude and that it is all the same. I believe that this debate is already a help and it is already enlightening to respond to people who think so when they hear Members talk and notice the differences between those who denounce the problems, attack the situations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u39	And they vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u40	... denounce those responsible for what is happening and, on the other hand, those who respond with the intrigue, with the distortion, with the lie and point the finger at those who continue to fight for the defense of the public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u41	Exactly! [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u42	We, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are where we have always been: in the defence of public service and public management of a fundamental company for the country and for territorial cohesion. What you have done... I remember, in fact, the words of a gentleman, who I do not know, called António Pires de Lima that said that the privatization of CTTs had been a huge success. The question we asked and asked again is the following: is it a success for whom? For whom do you threaten and increase profits of millions and millions of euros at the cost of the people's sacrifices? For those who have approved in this House the laws that allow the administration of the CTTs and their private management to do what they are doing, closing mail stations through the silence of the night, without giving cavacus to the authorities? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] That's a lie what the honourable Member said. There are cases in which the post station appears closed in the morning and the authorities don't even know anything about it, Mr. Deputies! People are confronted with what the CFP said would happen when you privatized the post. We warned that this would be so and we continue to fight for the return of postal services to the public sphere and, in this respect, the PS government, with the support of the PSD and the CDS, rejected this proposal of the PCP and this claim of the people and workers! But once again, let's see which side you will be on when we vote here in the Assembly of the Republic, the public management of the TTCs! Here we are to see, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u43	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor to ask for clarifications from the PS, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you are right about the PCP when it attacks the shameful process of privatization of TTCs and the granting of postal service to this company. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u45	The CFP is right when it attacks what has been done, indeed by the silence of the night, without being given knowledge and without transparency, without neglecting the rights of the people, the diversity of the territory, attacking the interior, which should deserve more concern by the state, and also attacking the interests of the workers. In fact, the PCP is right when it says that this process should not have happened as it happened. But the CFP has omitted an issue which also seems relevant to this discussion: privatization was not just a privatization, it was more than that, it was an armored privatization, with ties to the future and without being able to be undetected. And why? Because this company was tied to the granting of a bank licence which prevents the State today from intervening as it would be. In fact, what was done in the TAP, for example, would be able-CL to do in the TTCs, it was not the bank license that was assigned the way it was. The State will do everything through the Government and also here in the Assembly of the Republic so that the public service can be provided under the conditions under which it must be provided. In fact, the PS presented here, and it was approved, a request for inspection of the General Financial Inspection so that an audit could be made of the privatisation process and we will await this audit which will probably lead us to draw conclusions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u46	To request clarification, Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating Mr Bruno Dias on the subject he brings us here today and which calls us to discuss and reflect: the privatization and concession of TTCs, a company that was privatized and that was previously public, which is, of course and always, a matter of current and recurring in many discussions we have had both in the plenary and in the standing committees of the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Bruno Dias, it is clear that we have seen a catalogue of mailbox closure processes throughout 2018, usually in areas within the country, and it is with some stupefaction and misunderstanding that we see the right to go through these issues as « sold-wine dog ». It is that in particular the PSD and the CDS, in the Assembly of the Republic, allegedly they defend the interior of the country, speak of the need not to abandon the populations, etc. , but then they are silent when confronted with the fact that there is a company that has been privatized, a private administration whose only orientation for the management of mail stations is, provided they are not stations serving the CTT Bank, to close all mail stations, even if they are unique in each municipality. Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to ask you if you are satisfied that the administration of the CTTs confuses the universal postal service, which must be provided by virtue of the concession contract which is responsible for its implementation, and the proliferation, reinforcement and enlargement of the CTT Bank at the expense of the facilities that were public, of the mail stations that were paid by the public record, by the contribution of all Portuguese. The second question is about the replacement that some authorities have been doing in this process of desertification and abandonment of universal postal service, transferring to the authorities this responsibility for the administration of TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u48	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u49	What do you have to say, because this is relevant from the point of view of the territorial cohesion you have spoken about and to which we agree? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u50	Mr. Joel Sá, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have here once again the hypocrisy of the Portuguese Communist Party, which likes to pretend that it is opposition but when we vote on the State budgets, during these three years, you have never forgotten to do so! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u52	The Socialist Party today also pretends that it is not government and supports these Communist Party statements, but forgets that it is part of a government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u53	What a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u54	It's no fight, Mr. Deputies. You pretend that you are not part of the government, but the government has done nothing for three years on this issue. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u55	But let us stop being demagogy and go to what is important, because this matter interferes on a daily basis with people, populations, businesses, and of course we must be careful. The Social Democratic Party is paying close attention to this subject, and has been accompanying it, and has met with the necessary entities, and I myself have met with several members of the CTT company to know very closely some of the problems we have discussed today. As you know, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we approved the coming of ANACOM to the Commission to discuss this matter and to understand what AACOM is developing to resolve all these issues and, if necessary, the Social Democratic Party is thinking of calling on the Commission to discuss all these issues, as has already been considered by the Commission, as you know. And it's no novelty what I brought here today that could come to count. We hope that ANACOM will play its role as a regulatory entity, an important role, in a serious way, with wisdom and rigour. It is important that ANACOM develop all this work and it is essential that the necessary entities — the Government, ANACOM and ourselves — monitor the concession contract and that such supervision be carried out so that what is developed by the company can be assessed in accordance with the concession contract with the State. I ask Mr Bruno Dias what he believes should be done by ANACOM and whether the work she has done is sufficient or whether it should be improved. I also ask you what the Government and the Socialist Party should do to revise the concession contract. And you, once and for all, assume that they are government, do not enter the demagogy of saying that they are opposition. Say what you understand to be done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u56	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give Mr Joel Sá and Mr Sá a last-minute news. Members of the CDS : the State budget did not discuss the CTTs, nothing was approved on the CTTs. [[Voted, voted!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u58	Where we spoke in the CTTs, the return to public management and the defense of the public service was in the PCP projects, which you dropped. You have cast down the PCP projects, voted against, alongside the CDS, and, indeed, be said, also the PS. So the problem remained. In fact, there is a phrase that remained for history, said, at the time, by then Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro, of the following content: « Regardless of who the shareholder is, the quality of the postal service will never be concerned. The truth is this and any other ghosts that are presented with respect to privatization are that, ghosts and they do not materialize! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is what the PSD State Secretary told the CFP at the time of the debate on the privatization of post offices. Exactly what you said was not going to happen is the day-to-day of the people and the workers, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u59	No more demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u60	This specific issue of the councils that are left without any post station is particularly serious. But it's not acceptable for you to get the idea that a city council post station is no longer bad. Don't! One station per municipality is very bad! We need more than 1,000 mail stations, which was what we had before we moved this criminally into the privatisation process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u62	This constant closure, which has now reached the point of approaching, in the short term, half a hundred municipalities in the country, more than 15% of the national total that does not have a sampling post station, is the result of your political options and your decisions, which we have always denounced and exposed from the beginning.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u64	We cannot accept this prospect of letting go, let burn and then discuss the ashes and what we do with them. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] We cannot be very concerned and aired waiting for 2020 to say: « Ready, stay there with the bank license, stay there with the money, with the profits, that we now have the return of the public service and the granting of the public postal service ». That's unacceptable! We can't let the problem get worse and worse because every passing day, every passing month, every year the populations are having more problems, the interior territory is having more problems, the CTT workers are having more problems and we can't let go or, as we say, we can't let it burn and then we'll discuss the ashes. And the project that, apparently, some are getting warmer—that of waiting for the end of the granting of the postal service, of the universal service, to then, at that time, evaluate what will be done—is even more insidious. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there is political responsibility and not only regulatory. We cannot wait for ANACOM to make recommendations and that this solves the problems. There is a problem that needs to be dealt with with with political responsibility, with political options and courage, and that is the challenge that the CFP presents to all Members in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u65	For a political statement, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is happening with the TTCs is a real shame. The news happens behind each other and almost every day we are confronted with the announcement of the closure of mail stations. Furthermore, according to the CTT Workers Commission, we are at risk of reaching 2020 with only about 200 stations, instead of the 600 existing at the beginning of 2018. Unfortunately, that's where we walk. According to ANACOM data, during 2018 33 municipalities in our country were left out of post station and, as if not enough, the CTT company announced the intention to close even 15 more stations, which means that half a hundred municipalities will be without post stations. In other words, more than 15 % of the total number of municipalities are deprived of any post station, mainly penalising the populations of the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u67	More than 1000 have already been closed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u68	But this is unfortunately only one of the consequences of the PSD/CDS decision to privatize TTCs. In fact, the decision of the previous Government to hand over TTCs to private individuals who have been sold in Stock Exchange, even at a price far below the market, is having very negative consequences for both the State and the population as well as for the CTT workers themselves. On the one hand, the State of revenue needed to respond to social policies was deprived. It is recalled that, as a public undertaking, TTCs contributed important revenues to the state’s safes every year and at the same time provided a high-quality public service, which is also recognized internationally. at the end of these years, the state has already lost hundreds of millions of euros in dividends and the country has no longer had a public, reliable and safe mail service. On the other hand, with the decision to privatize CTTs, PSDs and CDSs they eventually subject citizens to constant degradation of one of the most important goods of public interest, postal service. In fact, postal services are a fundamental service for the people, for the development of the country and for territorial cohesion, since they contribute to mitigating social and economic imbalances, but also to defeat regional asymmetries. Now, five years after the privatisation of this important company, and in the face of the constant degradation of the service provided to the citizens, it is time to rethink, not the concession contract, but unreachably unfulfilled, because this will not solve, but the property of the TTCs itself. The truth is that, after five years of privatization, it is now perfectly notorious and increasing the deterioration and discharacterization of mail services, contrary to what the company itself presents as its mission, vision and values. The examples of this situation are many: hundreds of stations and posts have been closed since the privatization of TTCs, hundreds of stations and hundreds of mail stations have been closed; buildings have been sold; hundreds of postal prescriptions have been removed from the public; workers have been fired; precarious links have increased and increased the paths of each distribution turn, as well as waiting times for service. But we do not stay here: there is a lack of money available at the stations for the payment of pensions and other social benefits; there are delays that have already reached two weeks in the delivery of postal vouchers with pensions; the situations in which the mail has no longer been distributed on a daily basis—there are even places in the country where the carter only passes once a week, and in others, little more than that; whole populations that are forced to travel several kilometres to the nearest station, often without transport or conditions to do so; the systematic use of temporary work enterprises and service providers, among many other examples that could be mentioned here. All this without taking into account the needs and rights of populations and workers and without ensuring the conditions for speed, safety and privacy of correspondence. In short, privatization brought less quality, fewer jobs, fewer mail stations, less distribution, less revenues for the state, fraud of heritage and more charges for people. In fact, to this obvious degradation of the service it is still necessary to add to the increase in tariffs which since privatisation have already risen more than 55 %. That is, at the moment, and as a result of privatization, citizens pay more and the provision of service is less, at the same time that workers have seen their working conditions suffer a substantial setback. In good rigour, what is happening in the TTCs is not the same as a rule of law. Shareholders continue to seize, in the form of dividends, all profits generated by the company and even to distribute dividends above profits, completely decapitalizing TTCs. Only between 2013 and 2016, more than 270 million euros were distributed in dividends, i.e. about a third of the total privatisation revenue. In addition to all this, the CTT Bank has been implemented on the structure of mail stations, operating in the premises and with the postal workers, which are diverted from the desks of the postal services to the counters of the Bank's service, which is causing a substantial increase in the waiting lines. The administration shall definitely forward the postal service to the second or third plan. What is now of interest is the CTT Bank, and only the CTT Bank. Finally, I would like to say the following: five years after the privatisation of TTCs, and in the face of what we have seen, The Greens have no doubt that it is necessary to move forward with the process of reversing the privatization of TTCs so that their ownership and management return to the sphere of the State, the only way to recover the quality and universality of the postal service in our country. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u69	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u70	Mr President, I will answer the four together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u71	You have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u72	Mr President, Mr Luís Ferreira, I am not surprised by these double-dose tears, but there is a damage to Portuguese democracy, much more serious than to the public postal service, which is to see the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party in this position so little that they accept everything that is reduced to the staging and shooting of dry powder to present, in this way, initiatives whose consequences they already know.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u73	Don't be afraid of the pressure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u74	I say this for a simple reason: the CDS will vote as you have always voted, because the CDS does not serve only and only as a supporter of other people's logic of power, which is what the Portuguese Communist Party is doing today. So the CDS will vote as always! [[PCP protests.]] Mr President, in order to be serious in this debate, whether or not we agree with privatization - although there is an audit on privatization - we will talk about the consequences of this audit. Taking a step forward, I ask: Is there or not an agreement and a postal public service contract? I would like you to tell me what are the terms of this concession and what are not being complied with and if you have identified some that are not being complied with, what is the complaint you have already made. Second question: did the company present, or did it not, in due course, a restructuring plan? He introduced the government and the regulator! Tell me what the Government that you and the Communist Party support — they are so euphoric with management — did about the plan that the company presented. Is the company or not fulfilling the plan you presented? What criticisms have the Government and ANACOM (National Communications Authority) made to this same plan, which is to be made clear? I'm going to give you another given: the company says it closed 70 stations in 2018, during the government of the national troika—it wasn't in 2013, it was in 2018! Welcome to the discussion now! And I even want the discussion to be done, because the CDS is concerned about the quality of service because, yes, it forces the company!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u75	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u76	The CDS is concerned about the quality and service delivery!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u77	He's excited!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u78	Sir, listen carefully, don't speak loudly! It's not who shouts right anymore, it's who's right! I'll give you two data.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u79	The part is regimental! He wants to shut up, but he can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u80	Mr. Deputy, they closed 70 stations, opened 145 posts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u81	Stationery! Backlogs!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u82	The CDS question is what it means to be a post and what it means to be a station.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u83	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u84	I will finish, Mr. President. If you mean the same thing, you mean that even more facilities have been opened than those that have been locked up. And we're going to want to know exactly what services are in each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u85	It's okay for the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u86	That is the essential issue. Three of them have agreements with municipal chambers, 15 have agreements with parish boards. There's no need to know about the others. I ask again: is the Greens Ecological Party familiar with this situation or not? Do you agree, or not, with the autonomy of the local power that accepts these closures? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u87	Also for a request for clarification, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is at this time a dilemma that must congregate us all: before a bad service provided by the allocation of a public concession from the State, what should the State itself do?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u89	Check it out! Work!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u90	On the one hand, we have heard here the challenge of reversing privatization, with the conditions which I myself have already mentioned that it is almost impossible to do, since privatization has been linked to a bank licence and, therefore, today, nationalizing or reversing this privatisation is not only reverting the privatisation of TTCs, but also nationalising a bank. [[PCP protests.]] On the other hand, we have also heard, not very often, the challenge, for example the Left Block, for the reversal of the granting of the postal service. In view of this, what would the State do with the concession that would come to its hands but without the network and the distribution company? I'm saying, by grace, that maybe it was only GNR left to deliver letters. Therefore, the reversal of the concession cannot be the solution either. I assume that the audit to be carried out in the privatisation process of the CTT company itself must be able to respond to the assumptions that we all must find from a political point of view, and the responsibilities cannot only be of the regulator, must also be assumed by the Assembly of the Republic and governments. This audit must, in itself, close answers that the Portuguese State must give to this so poor service that it has been provided to the populations, to the territory and, most importantly, to those who need it most: the populations who live in isolated places, who often need to raise their reforms in the form of a postal voucher. Therefore, it is in this sense that we reaffirm our commitment to the Portuguese people and to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u91	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u92	Mr President, today is the first day of a discussion on TTCs which will certainly be repeated quite a few times throughout this year, because, as we all know, the deadline for granting universal postal service ends on 31 December 2020 and is this year, that is, one year before, that the Assembly of the Republic can and must decide whether the TTCs, as they exist, should continue to exercise universal postal service or return to the public sphere, so that it is the State that assumes a universal postal service that the administration of private TTCs has already shown that it does not want to do and that it is not in a position to do so. And you're not in a position to do it because, as you've already noticed, you and Mr. Deputies and Mr. Members, the strategy of the administration of TTCs is to transfer the universal postal service to the authorities and to keep the exercise of the banking licence as the only and exclusive activity of TTCs. Moreover, in many TTC stations there is already more notice to the TTC Bank than the CTT post station itself. That is why Mr. José Luís Ferreira asked you what you think of this issue, this phantom that the Socialist Party itself is agitated by the existence of an associated banking licence, forgetting that postal financial services were a concessional activity which was secondary in the granting of TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u93	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u94	More and more, financial activity, i.e. banking activity is the main activity of TTCs. I would therefore ask you, Mr José Luís Ferreira, to comment on this transmutation of a postal service in CTT Bank. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u95	Turning now from « asked » to « interrogator », you also have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u96	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I would like to read a brief passage from the report by ANACOM, which says : « The services previously provided in the post office are now provided in a station, where care is made by people without due responsibility or ethical duty, in particular as regards matters of confidentiality, which has raised concerns, particularly with regard to the guarantee of secrecy and inviolability of postal shipments as well as protection of privacy ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are talking about, and this is what it is about the highly enthusiastic balance sheet, which the CDS makes when it comes to opening new postal establishments that are actually paper shops, are retrosarias, are stores selling construction materials. That's how the postal network, as the CDS knows it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u97	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u98	And that's how we say we can't go on. In the light of the proposal from the CFP presented at the Assembly of the Republic, and that we will bring back the plenary so that it will again be from the public sphere and from the public management to the CTT company, the CDS — and certainly the PSD — will vote in a way that we are already seeing. The honourable Member was very clear in what he said, i.e. the CDS and PSD will be side by side with the PS in this vote, just as they were side by side with the PS in defending the position of maintaining the privatisation of the TTCs that you have ordered. Therefore, when it comes to the interest of populations and workers in the interest of the Champalimaud Group, the Champalimaud family and the Blackrock Fund we have no doubt on which side the CDS is located. We cannot continue to have this sad task of injecting money and nationalizing banks that have been crushed by financial capital, and at the same time seeing the impunity of the economic power that took account of the postal services closing and dismantling the public service. This, with the applause of the CDS and PSD, which continue to make a very positive assessment of the privatization they have decided, continues to support the PS Government in maintaining the postal services in the private sphere. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The question I put to you, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, is to know whether you do not consider it urgent — and every day that passes is a lost day — this reversal of the mails to the public sphere and that, as a country, we have no money to continue to have the mails in the private sphere, to consume millions to national public wealth and to the national economy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u99	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u100	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking you for your clarifications. Deputies Hélder Amaral, Luís Moreira Testa, Heitor de Sousa and Bruno Dias. Mr Hélder Amaral, as far as tears are concerned, what I am afraid is that we will come to the end of this legislature and there are Members who have not yet grasped the circumstances in which we live. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] I know that they were used to making irrevocable beer that until then made the Prime Minister change the organic law of the government to create the post of Deputy Prime Minister. There hasn't been that with us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u101	It's worse now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u102	with us, there is a joint position that has been respected and that is fundamental. But, Mr President, you cannot say that you have increased by not knowing how many mail posts and at the same time saying that the CDS is concerned about the quality of the service. If you say you've increased your positions, then... Now, the post office goes to the bookstores, to the shops of the three hundred! Is that what you're talking about? But what are we talking about, sir? Mail stations? Oh, my God! Mr President, I also do not know where to look for the idea that the autoarchs have peacefully agreed to the closure! I don't know what the authorities are talking about, only if they're the authorities of the CDS. It is that, of the authorities I know—and indeed I have already gone to several—they were all against the closure of the post offices. Mr Luís Moreira Testa asks what is to be done with the picture he is drawing. Mr President, I think the answer is what was said by one of your comrades, Arthur Penedos, who last week wrote an article in the Public, the title of which is as follows: It is urgent to reverse the privatisation of TTCs. I think the answer is there, sir. Mr. Heitor de Sousa, on bank licences, it is true, you are right. And what happens is that when it was with BES or BPN, no one raised any problem with bank licenses and therefore we should be in the same situation here. You are also right to say that this is a crucial year for this House to decide whether you want to keep TTCs in the private sphere or whether it is time for postal service to return to the sphere of State. We believe it is absolutely decisive that it comes to the sphere of state. We have also been presenting a legislative initiative in this regard a few months ago, precisely for a reversal of the process of privatization of TTCs, so that ownership and management return to the public sphere because that is the only way to guarantee the quality of service provided. Mr Bruno Dias, of course it is urgent to make this reversal, and the sooner the better. It is that, the longer you do, the fewer mail stations there will be and more damage to the state, because, as I said recently in the rostrum, only in two years the shareholders have already recovered a third of the investment they have made. Maybe that's why Mr. Pires de Lima says it was a great deal. That's right! It's just he doesn't say it's for who was a great deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u103	But we know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u104	But we know! For the populations it wasn't a good deal. It wasn't a good deal for the autocrats. And for the state it was a terrible deal, with which we are still suffering. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u105	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Trust between citizens and those who govern the fates of a country is one of the fundamental pillars of the democratic rule of law. Now that the government is approaching the end of its term of office, which has been returned to power for more than three years, it is confirmed that this trust has been broken. Three years of illusions and skills. Three years of empty promises and to fulfill. Three years of hooded austerity. Three years have left citizens, especially the poorest and most vulnerable, to the «God-giver», citizens to whom the state has an obligation to protect. See the dramatic situation in the National Health Service ( SNS ) : the one that was the greatest achievement of democracy — the SNS represents the most relevant social protection network — is today in bankruptcy, unable to respond to the needs of citizens. There is no memory of a situation as serious as the one we live in today's health. See the case of the Martinidade Alfredo da Costa : this national reference institution closed doors for lack of means — for lack of professionals! - on Christmas Eve. It is true to say that the devil is not coming, the devil has arrived and is in the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u107	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u108	Yesterday, the Health Commission visited the Dona Estefânia Hospital — the most relevant pediatric center in our country — where the service directors resigned in block. What prompted the resignation of these professionals was clear: a situation of unsustainable lack of doctors and nurses that has continued since 2017, with multiple promises from the government that have never been fulfilled. They resigned and left the notice that, if nothing is done, there will be no other solution than closing the doors of the emergency service of Dona Estefânia Hospital, affecting the entire pediatric population of Great Lisbon. Unfortunately, it is observed that there have never been so many resignations of hospital officials from north to south of the country, as in the last three years. Not to mention the resignation of the President of ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) or the resignation of the Coordinator of the National Continuous and Palliative Care Network. They all resigned for having exhausted their patience in the face of the Government's continuing unfulfilled promises. The confidence was broken, leaving the health management "without a king or a rock" and leaving the Portuguese to pay the bill. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has promised a family doctor for all. The reality is that there are more than half a million Portuguese still without a family doctor. The government promised to end the waiting lists. The reality is that waiting times continue to deteriorate from month to month, with cases of patients waiting 1300 days—more than three and a half years! — by simply consulting cardiology! The government promised that health would be its first priority. And the reality is that there has never been such a big reduction in public investment levels in the National Health Service — less 26 % than in 2015! The government has promised to restore social peace and approve careers of professionals. But, in fact, there is no memory of so many health strikes,... [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] ... with all — doctors, nurses, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians — to see the promises not fulfilled. No longer to speak in the way Mrs Health Minister has referred to "criminals" as nurses in our country. [[PS protests.]] But there's more. The Prime Minister, António Costa, promised that all the pending surgeries due to the strikes would be carried out until March 2019. However, it was forgotten to say that, in order to perform these surgeries, hospitals will postpone the other surgeries that were already scheduled. The government strategy is simple: the patients waiting. The government has promised rigour in the public accounts. The reality is that a report by the Court of Auditors, which denounces the deterioration of the financial situation of the National Health Service, with the debt of the Ministry of Health reached almost EUR 3000 million at the end of 2017. Worse, the Court of Auditors even questions the very credibility of the accounts of the Ministry of Health. The Socialists therefore continue the champions of debt and the socio-cratic heritage remains quite clear. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u109	The government promised in 2017 that the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João would be inaugurated in 2019. What's the reality? Today, in 2019, the sick children in the north of the country—many of them with cancer—are still being treated in containers in the middle of winter. Unacceptable! In addition, after several attacks on Christmas, Mrs. Minister of Health, alongside Mr. President of the Republic, said that the work of the pediatric wing of Saint John would start in 2019. this week, only two weeks after these statements, the same Minister informed the country that the works would only have started there by 2020. It's impossible to trust this government! And the degradation of public service continues, pushing those who have resources for the private sector and leaving those who do not have resources to the mercy of their luck. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Users and professionals are within their limit. If nothing is done, the safety of patients may be compromised. It is required that the Government recognise that it has failed and that it has set up an emergency intervention plan in the National Health Service. Finally, Mr President, I will say that the Social Democratic Party is — as it has always been — prepared to intervene and ensure that access to quality health care is a reality. We are next to the Portuguese, presenting solutions that return dignity, quality and humanity to the National Health Service. It's time for the government to do the same. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u110	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to ask for clarification, having Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite informed the Bureau that he intends to respond, firstly, to two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, then the other two. You then have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u111	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, I begin by congratulating you on your political statement and telling you that we almost missed the Devil's thesis. The PSD uses it more than three months in three months, and it must have been three months since the last time you used it. We know that something is wrong with the PSD when you are going to look for this thesis of the devil and when you pray every day for that devil to appear in the country. Finally, whenever the PSD resorts to this thesis, this is an indicator of some discomfort within the PSD. We also know that the PSD has no credibility to speak of the National Health Service, and much less it has it when it is overcome by despair, which is what was noted in the speech of the honourable Member. Mr Deputies spoke of transfers, financing, solvency of the National Health Service. In 2010, transfers to the National Health Service amounted to EUR 8849 million. However, this catastrophe happened to the country, which was a government of the PSD and the CDS-PP, supported by the troika and to support the troika, and by 2015 these transfers were already EUR 7880 million, i.e. less EUR 1000 million, Mr. In the State Budget for 2019, transfers to the National Health Service amount to EUR 9200 million, the State Budget against which the PSD voted, probably because it even increased transfers to the SNS. It is seen that this has been the case, because this increase has opposed PSD policy for two years. Therefore, in fact, when talking about National Health Service, it is undeniable that there is much to be done, from the hiring of professionals and the dignity of professional careers to investment, technology investment, etc. But it is also undeniable that today there is a paradigm different from that which was the PSD paradigm, which is that every year, after all, there is more budget than that which existed in the previous year. That's undeniable. It is still undeniable, Mr Deputies, that the PSD does not actually have credibility to talk about the National Health Service. Just look at what he left us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u113	In conclusion, Mr President, the question that I leave to the honourable Member is the following: is it both for the National Health Service, how does it justify the above EUR 1000 million less, budgeted by your party in 2015? And how does it justify a basic law that continues to want to drain the resources of the National Health Service for the private, such as that proposed basic law presented by the PSD? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u114	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite and the PSD for bringing the issue of health to this plenary, although unfortunately for the worst reasons. As the CDS has been saying, for three years, the health of Portuguese is worse, the human resources of the National Health Service are worse, the SNS has its sustainability and its threatened viability. In short, the health of the Portuguese is bad! And it is not just the CDS and the PSD that say it, the professional orders, the trade union associations, that we heard in the Health Commission this morning, the associations of managers, the professionals who denounce the lack of clinical safety, something which I insist is not a European country but a third-world country. [[PS protests.]] You from the united left benches can come here to announce numbers, you can come to devalue reality, you can come to say that it's all right, but what you demonstrate is a dangerous social insensitivity. What you can't do is deny that you've been in government for more than three years...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u116	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u117	... and that the main instrument of government action, which is the State Budget, was approved by the benches of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Green Party and the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u119	They can come and hit them all and say that they are worried about the National Health Service, which cannot be denied that they approve Budgets that make the National Health Service in the state in which it is. Nor can they try to whiten out, with the few positive aspects of reality, the seriousness of the facts, which, as I have already said, are denounced by independent entities, such as the Court of Auditors, who draw attention to what the CDS has not been tired of alerting. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you, if you agree that health has not been a priority for this government, which, starting with its Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, has sacrificed public services and the quality of care in health, and if you also agree that the three years and such of socialist governmental action, with the support of the united Left, have aggravated, and much, the state of the National Health Service. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u120	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u121	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mr Moisés Ferreira and Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto for the issues they raised. In fact, I should like to thank Mr. Moisés Ferreira of the Left Block because, after having spent 45 seconds talking about the devil, he reminded me that the Left Block is directly responsible for the reality that we are living in health. [[PSD applause.]] I recognize that it was a failure in my speech! You are left to the story that we are living with in the last three years and that will have consequences over the years to come. It is certainly not on this side that despair is experienced. The despair we are experiencing is that of the people, Mr. Member, who we saw yesterday in the face of the professionals, who were desperate for no answers from the government, when we visited the Central Lisbon Hospital Center, the despair of the patients who do not have access to the consultations in time and time. What about the private sector or even the social sector? Oh, my God! So when they cut public health access in our country, what other remedy is that people have or go to private? In fact, those who go to private are the rich, those who have possibilities, because those who are poor are, as I said, at the mercy of their luck. What you are creating is a National Health Service that is not for everyone,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u123	... a National Health Service for the poor, pushing those who have resources for the private. Today, there is a violation of the Constitution, because there is no general universal access and tends to be free of charge to health. What we are experiencing — Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto is absolutely right — is catastrophic, both financially and clinically. from a financial point of view, the left are talking about an increase in the health budget. When we look at the State budget, we see that there is an increase in all the public expenditure — even now it has increased by 3, 3 %. But actually, how much public spending has increased in the area of health? It increased by 2, 3 %. Always stay behind! Is this a priority for you? And when we compare how much we invest in health against GDP ( gross domestic product ), that is, 5, 2 % in relation to OECD, where this value is 6, 5 %? Oh, my God! Mr President, the truth is this: investment in health is not a priority for you, because if it were, unlike seeing a reduction to GDP, we would see an increase, which is what we are not seeing. But the worst thing is that you are raising your debt. You say they are increasing the budget, but waiting times continue to increase, clinical quality continues to be compromised, and debt continues to increase. It's all bad! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: what will the government do? There's an eminent emergency! The parties must put the "partisan" aside, the government must assume that it has failed and we must assume a national cause, which is to save the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u124	For a request for clarification, Mr António Sales of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u125	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite for bringing the issue of health to this plenary. The honourable Member is, in fact, still seized on the coming of the devil. The PSD, when calling the devil, definitely needs an exorcism session. I expect it will be tomorrow at the end of the day. Probably this exorcism session will be tomorrow at the end of the day! Open... [[PS's laughter and applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] Mr. Member, a few weeks ago the PSD tested a political number with data from the Court of Auditors for 2016 and on the basis of these data sought to adapt a suitable selection of arguments, ignoring more up-to-date data, particularly those of the 2017 ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) report. The PSD has now retested the same exercise and the same political number, but this time, without waiting for the 2018 ACSS report, which comes out in March / April, do not come the data of this report again contradict your narrative. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I don't understand that PSD is this! If it is that of Rui Rio, who a few weeks ago tried to lubricate the Portuguese and break the confidence — that you spoke there — in a rhetoric supported in the handling of most convenient data, or if it is another PSD, you know which one, perhaps that of Montenegro,... [[PSD protests.]] ...that definitely views debt as investment in health services and that it really looks at Portuguese citizens. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, the PSD continues to deny what is obvious, i.e. the budgetary strengthening of this government in Portuguese health. Mr President, the Socialist Party views debt as investment, as expenditure, which means more resources, more investments, better service to citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u126	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u127	And if it was not the absence of investment by VV. Ex., between 2011 and 2015, maybe the debt you talked about wasn't this one. [[PSD protests.]] Between 2011 and 2015, the average investment was EUR 91 million ; from 2016, this average was EUR 145, EUR 3 million. It is in this perspective that we should look at debt and be serious about the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u128	Mr Carla Cruz, from the CFP, has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u129	Mr. President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, your political statement and the answers you have already given are indeed another episode of a chapter that has recently been a violent offensive against the National Health Service, an offensive that originates in the large economic groups that operate in health but has as protagonists the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u130	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u131	When the PSD was in the government, he was trying — and he tried! — to destroy the National Health Service inside; now that it is not in the government, it is trying to destroy the National Health Service outside. Mr. Deputy brought here another sad episode, which has to do with the PSD's policy options regarding the National Health Service. What you did here was an attempt — one more — to discredit the SNS, create insecurity in the National Health Service and attack users' rights. But you know perfectly well — in fact, during the visit that the Health Commission made yesterday to Dona Estefânia Hospital, it was the professionals themselves who considered it unanimously — that the safety of patients is not at stake and that the workers, the health professionals, give their best every day in order not to question the safety of the patients. [[PCP applause.]] In fact, it is in the National Health Service that users find the most qualified, most effective response, it is not in the economic groups that you so much appreciate, because when something goes wrong in these economic groups it is in the National Health Service that they resort to. Mr President, the question I put to you is whether your speech will have an impact on the amendment of your position on the proposals presented by the CFP here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u132	Madam Member, please pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u133	I will finish, Mr. President. Will the PSD vote in favour of the proposals presented by the CFP on investments in hospitals?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u134	But what investments?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u135	Will the PSD approve our proposals for the valuation and hiring of professionals, non-emergency transport of patients, the exemption from moderate rates, the free distribution of medicines for people over 65 years of age? These are the answers that need to be given, but certainly these will not be the answers that the PSD will give. The PSD will give it to that petition to destroy the National Health Service! But for this petition it will not count on the PCP, but on the contrary it will always find here the intransigent resistance and defense of the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u136	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u137	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Carla Cruz and Mr António Sales for their questions. Starting with Mrs Carla Cruz's questions, I will say that when we look at the PCP and the Left Block, we have two levels of proposals: the proposals that are very, very important, and that required them from the State budget to vote in favour of them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u138	They were there and they voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u139	... and there are the other proposals, which are not included in the State budget, which you are presenting in order to satisfy the customers here and there and your ideological orientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u140	Who has customers is the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u141	I spoke on customers, Mrs. Member, on purpose! It is that those who have provided the biggest service to the private health sector in Portugal are the PCP and the Left Block, by putting ideology in front of users' rights, by voting the State budgets, as they did, pushing people to the private. In fact, they only pushed those who have resources, because, as I have said several times, those who have no resources are hostage to their luck, to their waiting times. Mr António Sales spoke here of a very important report, which is an ACSS report on access to health care. And what did that report say? He said that for a vascular surgery consultation, at Vila Real Hospital, there were 1,000 days of waiting; for a cardiology consultation, there were 1307 days of waiting; for a neurosurgery consultation, there were 490 days of waiting at the Algarve University Hospital Center, such hospital that you promised and then did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u142	That one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u143	In terms of surgery, there were 546 days waiting for otorrin surgery at the hospital in Évora. And the list goes on. In addition, we know of the degradation that exists. Even now, at my home hospital, the Egas Moniz Hospital, there are even stolen hospital material worth hundreds of thousands of euros. The Egas Moniz Hospital is today « the Tanks of Health». When we talk about debt, the honourable Member says: « We, the Socialist Party, assume the debt». Now, we know this school, it is the so-called'socratic school', that is, the one in which debt is not paid, it accumulates and manages and in which, whoever comes next, it pays it. when talking about debt, he said « we accumulate debts, we do not pay suppliers because we made investments ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u144	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u145	Look at the investments! Look at the level of investments!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u146	Now, as I know, in the time of the troika we built five hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u147	Five hospitals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u148	How many have you built? Zero! [[Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u149	And when we look at the budget implementation data, we see that the investment level in 2015 was EUR 102 million, in 2016 it was EUR 87 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u150	See from 2016!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u151	... in 2017 it was EUR 71 million and in 2018 it was EUR 96 million. These are the major investment levels of Mr. [[Protests by PS Member Antonio Sales.]] In fact, we live in a particularly difficult situation, because the National Health Service is in stress, there are objective clinical risks...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u152	Hard, difficult now is the time, Mr. Deputies. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u153	I shall finish, Mr President, by thanking the tolerance. The situation is serious and we must find a basis for understanding. Mr. António Sales, since you have occupied half of your intervention with the Social Democratic Party, I must tell you that I am very proud to be social-democrat,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u155	... because it is a party where people live from confrontation of ideas, live from confrontation of opinions, and make - in a free way, with freedom - a word that left parties have a lot of difficulty in facing, unfortunately. If there was more freedom in the management of hospitals, today the National Health Service would be better. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u156	Mr Vitalino Canas, from the PS, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, we saw another demonstration of the strength of a British invention that structures the European political system — parliamentary democracy. The vote in the House of Commons — actually the same as in the House of Lords — is historic because of the expression of parliamentary supremacy and the defeat of the British Government, but is not historically clarifying. After the rejection of the exit agreement negotiated by Prime Minister Theresa May with the European Union, and after another vote that took place a few days ago, we know that the UK Parliament does not want a few things. He does not want an uncoordinated exit or no agreement and does not want the exit agreement negotiated with Brussels. The reasons that have brought together 432 Members are obviously discrepant and in some cases even contradictory, but it is possible to conclude that the so-called "backstop clause", provided for in point 6.2 of the Additional Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland, was a decisive cause for many of the majority of governments voting against the agreement. For clarification it is little, and the British Government, which will be present at this point in time for the vote on a motion of no confidence, will have to do better. The European Union is awaiting, awaiting and united. Several times has been highlighted and stressed again: in this process, the European Union has given exceptional proof of maturity and union of the remaining 27 Member States. As soon as the results of the referendum were known, many populists ran to buy the confetti with which they would celebrate the day of the departure of the United Kingdom, the day—they anticipated! — the defeat of Europe and perhaps even the day when its breakdown began. They imagined a disoriented, far-sighted and supplicating Europe before the United Kingdom, a triumphant example to follow by some other Member States. The confetti will have to wait another time, because what we actually observe and applaud is a Europe that is quietly prepared for everything and a United Kingdom that is unprepared to deal with its ghosts and its contradictions. The European Union has not saved in clear messages. With the red lines that the parties have drawn, it is not possible to make an exit agreement other than the one that has been negotiated. If the United Kingdom needs more time, it will have more time for whatever it is; if you want to cancel your withdrawal notification under Article 50. The Treaty on European Union can do so ; if you want to leave without agreement, we regret that it will be a serious option, but we are prepared with contingency plans. It doesn't cost to foresee what the Socialist Party would prefer. Europe has received an unparalleled legacy from the United Kingdom. The political system common to Europe would not be what is without the contributions of John Locke, Thomas Hobbes or Jeremy Benton. Our economic system would not have the configuration it has without Adam Smith, John Stuart Mill or John Maynard Keynes. Our fundamental values—of government limitation, freedom and tolerance—would have sued the hands of fascist and Nazi populisms if the British had not led the resistance of free Europe. European culture would be quite different without Shakespeare, Monty Python or Beatles. The United Kingdom is indisputably an architect of the construction of Europe as it exists. For Portugal, the United Kingdom, or more remotely England, has a special value. It's the friends we've almost always been on the same side. In addition, we are linked to the United Kingdom by hundreds of thousands of Portuguese people who live there, work and study, and tens of thousands of British people who are in Portugal, in addition to an umbilical economic relationship. I repeat: it does not cost to realize what the Socialist Party would prefer, through a new referendum or simply by the democratic institutions of the United Kingdom to conclude that the departure of the European Union will pose insoluble problems and that it would be best to return to the negotiated agreement between the former British Prime Minister and the European Union before the referendum. The vote did not clarify, but it also did not make this outcome more unlikely. It is, however, up to the people of the United Kingdom and their institutions to decide what direction they want to take. Portugal, for its part, prepares itself for any scenario, in particular by designing and implementing contingency plans for a disorderly exit. We do not ignore that the Portuguese community in the UK and that the British community in Portugal are not completely quiet, which is understandable. However, what we know on a solid basis is that, if there is a disordered exit, the British in Portugal will not feel a significant impact on their lives, and there is good reason to believe that the British Government will not want the Portuguese in the United Kingdom to see their lives significantly disturbed. To this end, the Government, diplomatic and consular services, the departments of the Public Administration with related responsibilities. For this reason, the Socialist Party will also be ready to promote and support any measures of urgency that are necessary. I conclude by pointing out that whatever is the result of this troubled journey, there is something we cannot ignore: even outside the European Union, a solid and close future relationship with the United Kingdom, both bilaterally and in the context of the European Union, is crucial. Whether according to the Norwegian model, we are now talking a lot, or something else, we are doomed to a close relationship, not only in the field of European defence, where it is essential, but also at economic and commercial level. Because of the uncertainty and lack of clarity that exists, this is unequivocal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u158	Mr Vitalino Canas, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u159	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u160	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u161	Mr President, Mr Vitalino Canas, I welcome it for bringing this issue to plenary, which is on the agenda after the vote we saw yesterday in the British Parliament. Mr President, of course, what is going on with regard to the exit process of the United Kingdom of the European Union, the Brexit — none of us would like what is happening, the CDS has already said so many times — is bad for Europe, it is bad for Portugal and it is also bad for the United Kingdom itself, but we do not question, of course, the sovereign will of the British people, who voted in referendum. If, in this sense, what happened yesterday is an undesirable result, unfortunately it is no longer an unlikely result. That is what we all realized, particularly in recent months, that what happened yesterday to this vote, which leaves the United Kingdom without an exit agreement and without a transition agreement for that same exit, was not an unlikely situation. I would say that we all realize it, with the exception of a small village, not of Gauls, but in this case of Lusitanians, which is the Government of Portugal, that until yesterday has always believed, with an irritant optimism, and let me use this expression, Mr, because it is an expression that a socialist easily understands — that would not happen what happened to that vote. That, Mr President, leaves many Portuguese who are in the United Kingdom working in a situation where they do not know what will happen in their future, nor do they know, indeed, what kind of support the Portuguese Government can have. The same is true of the many Portuguese companies that are exporting to the United Kingdom, which is our fourth largest trading partner, from the point of view of products, and even the first from the point of view of services. The fact is that, today, a Portuguese company does not know what kind of support it can afford. A company in Spain, a company in Ireland, a company in the Netherlands, a company in Sweden, a company in Denmark already know what kind of support they can count on, but this does not happen in Portugal. That is why, Mr President, I am following a very important part of your speech, but there is another part that I do not follow, and I would like to ask you the following: does it not seem to you that the Portuguese Government has slept in the form in this matter, and that has postponed to the limit of the undesirable the presentation of solutions, which are essential to both Portuguese citizens and to Portuguese companies which are currently exporting to the United Kingdom? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u162	Also to make requests for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u163	Mr President, Mr Vitalino Canas, I begin by thanking you for today's topic of political declarations. Obviously, we all realize the dimension of what we are discussing here, even because the Portuguese community is one of the largest communities in the United Kingdom and therefore this whole matter has a great influence here. We know that Brexit is one of the most complex political processes in recent decades, but let me tell you that what is most withdrawn from this whole process, whether from the European Union or from the United Kingdom itself, is a huge feeling of uncertainty and insecurity, above all, for all communities — in our case, for the Portuguese community — who have people to work and live in the United Kingdom and who, from the outset, have this feeling that is very difficult to dissolve. Yesterday we had the opportunity to tell Mr Foreign Minister that it is normal that, almost one and a half years from the beginning of this whole process, when there was no strong and clear position from the beginning, it is very difficult to reverse this feeling of insecurity that the Portuguese community has also shown. My questions are essentially about this because, regardless of what is going to happen today in the vote on the motion of censure, it remains to be known what will happen with the extension of time that may exist from here on. There is the possibility of the Kingdom calling for the extension of the deadline for the departure of the European Union, but it is essential to realize what this time is for. If you are not going to negotiate, Mr President, you have said so here, and other Members have already said that this is the only possible agreement, what is the use of this extension of time? Does it believe that this extension, which may exist, can improve the guarantees that exist for the Portuguese community? in this sense, it is also considered that the plan presented yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs gives solid guarantees to the Portuguese community. Finally, in view of this scenario and such a large problem, do you not think that the best option would be to hold elections? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u164	You have the floor to answer, Mr Vitalino Canas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u165	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Mota Soares and Isabel Pires asked the questions. I would like to point out two or three aspects. First of all, I am referring to the issue of optimism. No, it is not excessive or irritating optimism, as Mr Pedro Mota Soares prefers! Yeah, yeah, realism. It is, yes, to know how it negotiates and it is, yes, to be able to convey the right signs. Europe was involved in a complicated, complex negotiation that lasted almost two years with the United Kingdom. Europe has shown, from the outset, that it wants an orderly exit, an exit governed by an agreement. If this is Europe's objective, it makes no sense for Member States to be negotiating or doing bilateral negotiations, which they have not made, or to create contingency plans that show any kind of mistrust in relation to the outcome they intend to achieve. The Portuguese Government is acting at the right time. The Portuguese Government is acting when there are serious probabilities for Brexit to be made in a disorderly manner. That is what the Portuguese Government is doing and planning, planning and implementing contingency plans, which are appropriate plans, as we had had the opportunity to see yesterday, and the honourable Member also had — by the intervention of Mr Foreign Minister. The Portuguese can be quiet. The Portuguese Government is doing everything to ensure that its life is not damaged, that it suffers no inconvenience after Brexit, especially if that Brexit, contrary to what we wish, is found in an disorderly way. Of course we need to know what time it is for, Mrs. Isabel Pires. If the British Government asks for it, what is the time for? It is certainly not to negotiate or renegotiate the agreement if the'red lines' established by the parties remain. Europe said 'we do not want to dissociate any of the four freedoms, we do not want them to be dissociated, so they must all be negotiated together. If the United Kingdom wants to be on the single market, it must accept the four freedoms — this was the « red line » established by the European Union. on the British side there are also « red lines », in particular issues related to the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. With these « red lines », no other agreement is possible, I repeat, there is no other agreement with these « red lines ». Europe has been clear to say this, but it is possible, perhaps, to negotiate, to continue to dialogue, if these'red lines' are to be withdrawn from the course of the negotiation. Let's see. at this time, it is not up to Europe to make any kind of clarification. We've already said everything we had to say. We have already said that we accept what the United Kingdom and its people want — we have said it in all clarity — it is now up to the United Kingdom, its institutions and its people to define what they want, and we will be here in peace to negotiate, to talk and to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u166	We moved on to the second round of questions. Mrs Paula Santos of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Vitalino Canas, the rejection by the British Parliament of the terms of the agreement negotiated between the United Kingdom and the European Union is, in itself, inseparable from the pressures, blackmails and manoeuvres of both the institutions of the European Union and Britain, in order to seek to reverse a legitimate and sovereign decision of the British people, pressures to which the Portuguese Government itself is not outside. throughout this process, we have indeed seen an unacceptable behaviour, so that the decision of the British people is not being implemented. This rejection is not disconnected from the political and ideological campaign that has continued over these months, always realizing that the departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union, although there is no basis for it, would be a disaster, particularly for the United Kingdom. What matters, Mr President, now for the CFP, is to reiterate what we have been saying during this process: the Portuguese Government must intervene with the authorities of the United Kingdom and the European Union in order to ensure the protection of the rights of Portuguese citizens working and living in that country, namely the right to residence, the right to equal treatment, the right to access to public services, health care, education, the right to social security benefits, the right to family reunification, the mutual recognition of academic qualifications and professional qualifications, and at the same time must take the initiative for the development of mutually advantageous bilateral relations between Portugal and the United Kingdom, in respect of our sovereignty and also of the British people. Therefore, Mr President, the question you wanted to raise relates to the fact that, contrary to what you have referred to, our country and government are once again going after the damage and are again subject to the European Union's own guidelines. Portugal should have already started the preparation process for any scenario, irrespective of the outcome of the exit process from the United Kingdom of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u168	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u169	I will finish, Mr. President. Portugal should have already started the process, particularly with regard to safeguarding the rights of Portuguese citizens, but also with regard to the impact of the United Kingdom's departure in its various dimensions, but I would stress from an economic point of view, particularly for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and for agriculture, as regards the maintenance of our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u170	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u171	That is what Mr Deputies was asking about. In contrast to what I have said, we are not in time, we are not fulfilling our responsibilities, we are, yes, late and again, subject to the guidelines of the European Union and not to defend national interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u172	Mrs. Rubina Berardo from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the House, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr Vitalino Canas on bringing this very relevant issue to Parliament, especially on the day when the vote on the motion of censure to the Theresa May Government takes place, and in that sense we can debate the European present day in plenary. Mr Vitalino Canas, it is also relevant because of the dangerous electoral promises that certain politicians make to the electorate, i.e. it is a message for all political parties in all Member States, precisely about those promises that are impossible to fulfill, as noted in this issue concerning Brexit. in this sense, it even seems that the PS, in a certain way and in part, preceded the debate on Brexit, which will take place here in Parliament, tomorrow, perhaps due to the absence of the Socialist Party's own legislative initiative, unlike the PSD and the CDS, which precisely bring the necessity of contingency plans.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u174	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u175	In fact, it was these legislative initiatives that, in fact, encouraged the Government of the Republic to finally bring this matter to debate, after the insistence of the true opposition parties. I recall that the study itself on the consequences of Brexit for the Portuguese economy was also driven by the PSD. The Government has taken the tow and it has been necessary for the CIP (Commercial Confederation of Portugal) to move forward. Mr. Deputies, contingency plans, studies on the economic situation and the impact of Brexit are not done out of mistrust about the ongoing negotiations, but on the contrary, are to show that there is something prepared, to see the reality and to reach the aspirations of the population, whether the Portuguese community residing in the United Kingdom, or the British community, whether the Portuguese companies have trade with the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u176	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u177	We have to prepare for the worst, we have to wait for the best. And, honourable Member, the government left not five for midnight, but half-night and ten. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u178	Mr Vitalino Canas, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u179	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Rubina Berardo, I am grateful for the questions, which allow me to develop more two or three important topics. Starting with the idea that I have seen the CFP defend that this process of departure from the United Kingdom of the European Union is being blackmailed, yes, Mrs Deputy, there is blackmail. There! In the referendum campaign, there was a great blackmail about the British electorate. And the results of the referendum, perhaps, would have been different if this blackmail had not existed. And you know, Mrs Deputy, that part of this blackmail has set up a lie, the lie that the UK's stay in the European Union was allowing the United Kingdom to be flooded by foreigners, including Portuguese. That is, when we talk about blackmail, we need to know that this was the main blackmail that existed, that there were those who argued that the United Kingdom should leave the European Union, in order to prevent foreigners from going to the United Kingdom, including Portuguese. Madam Member, we should take this into account, because it is historically relevant and important. Madam Member, when you say that the Portuguese Government should intervene with the British Government to safeguard the Portuguese position, we agree, and the Portuguese Government is doing so. We heard yesterday Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs said that since there is no bilateral negotiations between Portugal and the United Kingdom, he is convinced that the Portuguese position, which is unilaterally to grant to British citizens living in Portugal all their rights today, will also be followed by the UK Government. There is a basis of trust and good faith that allows the Portuguese Government to say this and we will trust that good faith is correct. The honourable Member said that Portugal should already have initiated bilateral negotiations to build a future relationship with the United Kingdom after Brexit. I do not agree with that, Mrs. Deputies. If all 27 Member States were doing so, we would be making a serious mistake. Negotiating bilaterally with the United Kingdom would create conditions for a totally messy exit, in which everyone would save himself as he could. It would not be correct, it would not be appropriate, and the Portuguese State did not. Mrs. Rubina Berardo, I am going to let the idea that the Portuguese Government is only making contingency plans because the PSD has taken an initiative... Mr. Member, how is that possible? Oh, my God! The Portuguese Government is making contingency plans at the same time as the other governments are doing so and following what has been decided at European Union level. Has the PSD also convinced the European Union, the European Commission, to define guidelines for contingency plans? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u180	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u181	It certainly wasn't Mrs. Deputies. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are not only in the Brexit process, but also in the process of defeating populism, because Brexit is, if it happens, the success of a certain populism. We must therefore try to defeat Brexit and, above all, try to defeat it in a disorderly way. That is why the Portuguese Government is contributing, and that is what we are also trying to do in this House of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u182	We are in a position to move on to another political declaration. You have the floor for this purpose, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today it is reported that we have 17 000 students waiting to know if they have a scholarship. It is a problem that is not new but has worsened this year. Compared with last year’s homologous period, the situation worsened in more than 4000 cases. Every year, the news about delays in the social action scholarships of higher education occupies headlines of newspapers. Although at the beginning of the legislature the Government had made an effort to ensure more speed in the process, through the Simple Programme, the situation remains. The system is archaic, the stock exchange regulation is bureaucratic and those who depend on this support to keep studying remain « hand-to-hand».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u184	That's it! Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u185	Will the pockets be sentenced to the same delays each school year? Oh, my God! Will the pockets have to live « with the heart in their hands», months in a row, waiting for a decision on whether or not they are entitled to the scholarship? Oh, my God! Don't the pockets deserve any more respect? Do they not deserve to be treated with more dignity? Our answer is clear and we have already put forward proposals here. On several occasions we brought the debate the proposal for consecration of December 31 as a maximum limit for the transfer of the first instalment of the stock exchanges, but PS, PSD and CDS rejected the proposal of the Left Block. It was a missed opportunity and the pockets don't forget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u187	But the debate is not just about deadlines, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also about the effectiveness of social action. For this reason, we also put forward a proposal to extend the number of students covered by social action, but once again PS and PSD have dropped our proposal. The pockets don't forget, we don't forget. It was in 2010 that higher education attended the biggest cut in social action scholarships. Who was in the government was the Socialist Party and who gave him the hand to cut off was the PSD. We lost almost a third of the scholarship students, which, combined with an aggressive propina policy, left them without any chance of pursuing studies or entering higher education. The right-wing government only maintained the logic of asphyxiation of funding and today more than half of the social stock exchanges pay only the value of propines. The deresponsibility of the State is unequivocal, insofar as only 40 % of the financing of the social action is guaranteed through the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u189	That is, we have a system that depends on structural funds and, therefore, a system that offers less guarantees and more delays to students. Although we are going along a path of recovery of the effectiveness of social action, we are still far from the 2010 numbers, the year in which social action was brutally reduced. That is the problem we want to tackle, in articulated and structural vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u191	However, we know that the problems do not stay here and the diagnosis is known. According to the last study produced by the National Council of Education, State of Education 2017, we are still one of the countries where the gap between the value of the benefit practised and the financing of direct social action is higher. at the same time, we are one of the OECD countries ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the European Union where the value of propines is highest. In short, what the diagnosis tells us is that higher education is not for everyone. This is the charge that the OECD makes, demonstrating that Portugal continues to fall short of the target for 2030, to have 40 % graduates between 30 and 34 years of age. The lack of effectiveness of social action, the limited scope of its regulation or the absurd value of propins, which still persists in Portugal, are factors that serve as a brake to access higher education. The year 2019 is therefore historic with regard to the start of responses to these problems. In good time, the Block guaranteed the reduction of the maximum value of the propines in 212 €, a small step to start a path that guarantees a social state where no one stays behind, that way, that we must continue until the removal of the propines. However, changes in social action are also essential and we will therefore re-submit our proposals for their improvement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u193	We know that the discussion about the future of higher education does not go through blackmail made by the right, which contrasts the choices between more scholarships or less propines. As his performance in the government shows us, the right or even tips on high and scholarships on low, which is like he says: higher education is not for anyone he wants, it is for whom he can! That doesn't happen without our complaint and our fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to decontaminate the discussion. If we want a robust, democratic and universal higher education, as emanated from the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, then we cannot continue to try a kind of war between rights. Access to higher education free of propines is not opposed to the right of access to social stock exchanges and the investment capacity in more social action does not require the existence of propines. Those who, frightened by the idea of the end of the tips and a higher education for all, are deceived to use blackmail to deny students rights. This is a future debate for the country. Do we really want to meet the goals set for 2030? Do we even want more students in higher education? So we have to invest in this goal, guaranteeing rights and inclusion, leaving no one on the way, due to economic difficulties. The Block will be here for all fighting. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u194	Mrs. Members, the Bureau records the inscriptions of four Members. Members to request clarification and was informed that Mr Luís Monteiro will answer two to two. To ask for clarifications, first of all, Mr Álvaro Batista, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luís Monteiro, when he listened to your speech, the only expression I had was: 'heavy conscience'. When did the Bloc stop supporting the government of management? It's obvious you've never. He's got a heavy conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u196	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u197	Mr President, who has approved all the Management Budgets must be responsible for their failures. Thus, this debate can only mean, in addition to a great hypocrisy, the recognition of the inability of the Block and the radical left to solve the problems of the country, also in higher education. The Bloc supports the government, but it lacks what is needed to force it to grant scholarships in time and to implement the programme of regularization of precarious links.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u198	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u199	Nor does the Bloc have what is needed in order to be able to assume its responsibilities for this government's disastrous policies for higher education. In December 2018, fewer than 4500 scholarships had been paid than in 2017. As a partner of this government, what did the Block do to solve the problem? Today, in January 2019, when we prepare for the beginning of the second semester, 17 000 students continue without knowing whether or not they are going to have a scholarship. What's the Block's fault? Today, almost halfway through the school year, there are 33 000 students — 33 000! — waiting for the Government's final response to whether or not they are going to have a scholarship. In the previous Government, the PSD and CDS, the decision-making period for the award of the grants increased from 100 to 40 days and its value increased by €200. In addition, in the academic year 2014 / 2015, the number of scholarship students increased by 6000. In the former government, despite the troika, of bad memory, which the PS offered to the country, everything improved in awarding scholarships to higher education students. After four years, with the convivence of the Block and the PCP, everything is worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u200	They've gone down! Oops!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u201	And what did the Block do? He came here to cry and « shake the water from the hood», but people out there know that they are « crocodile tears ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u202	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u203	Mr, more than 3200 requests have been submitted for the regularization of precarious links in higher education, most of which remain pending.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u204	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u205	I'm done now, Mr. President. This situation is the responsibility of this Government and the Block, which approved it. Since September of last year, the results of the 2017 individual scientific employment stimulus contest have been known. Many months have passed, there are still no contracts signed on account of the government and its supporters, the Bloc and the PCP. Mr. Luís Monteiro, students who requested scholarships and teachers and precarious researchers of higher education do not want lamurias, do not want « excuses of bad payer », do not want theatres, do not want « crocodile tears ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u206	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u207	I'm done now, Mr. President. They want, yes, seriousness and responsibility, they want their problems solved, and they have the right to do so. What is the Block gonna do? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u208	Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u209	Mr President, Mr. Luís Monteiro, thank you very much for the subject that brought the debate. Mr President, I think that the fellows will also not forget that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS has proposed, in this State budget, the increase in social action at school, just as much as you wanted — and they have managed — to go down the tips. Result? The social action at school will essentially be of the same value, but the children of the most privileged are very grateful for the 200 € bill that you have given them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u211	So this is a small step that the rich thank and never cease to be extraordinary that has been the Left Block to achieve this prowess.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u212	The rich? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u213	Mr President, the higher education system has grown and must continue to grow, with a conjugation between propines and a strong and fair social action at school. As you know, the cost of a student in higher education runs, on average, in the house of 5000 €, of which the tips represent a fifth. So I don't know if you really believe it's because of a fifth of this value that prevents students from accessing higher education. In the CDS, we know that the right way to achieve this democratization, which seems to be a consensual goal, is to help those who cannot be there today, is to help those who cannot access higher education, it is not to finance those who can already. Therefore, Mr President, I would warn you to have some caution, because your ideologically pure and assetic options, above a system that is underfinanced, can have two obvious side effects. First, they can trigger the 2 props. the cycle, which now seems to be the great objective of qualification of Portuguese, with which we agree. Therefore, to help who else can, harm those who can no longer reach 1. the cycle and not with 2. the cycle may dream. But, worse than that, they may call into question the quality of the public higher education system in Portugal, on account of poor management of priorities and poor management of public funding, of State budget money. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u214	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the questions put by Mr Álvaro Batista and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. I begin by saying to Mr Álvaro Batista that, in fact, we have discussed several times a subject which is not even under discussion today, which is the issue of precariousness in higher education and science. And it is interesting to note that Mr. Deputy is choosing one of two speeches: sometimes, he says that the PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Program of the Precarious Links in the Public Administration) serves to regularize the boys on the radical left;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u216	Also!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u217	... today, it seems it's good and the government is not doing it. Well, we need to know exactly whether Mr. Deputies today choose the insult to the precariouss of science, which is what they have done in committee and in plenary, or whether they are really concerned about the delay in the response to PREVPAP. We are concerned about this delay, but who has given his hand to the gentlemen. Recitors in this respect have been the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u218	Ah! Is the PSD government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u219	... PS and CDS, it hasn't been the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u220	So, about bad conscience, we're talking. Do you know what year there were fewer social action scholarships in higher education? It was in 2013! Do you know what year was the year in which there was less investment in the State budget in social action scholarships in higher education? It was in 2013! Maybe it's not necessary to remember who was ruling at that time...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u221	All right! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u222	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u223	It was about when they gave the bag to the Salgado!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u224	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, it is interesting that you are now concerned that the decline in the value of the licenses can trigger the 2 tips. the cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u225	He can't shoot, he's already fired!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u226	A year ago we presented an initiative to ensure the freezing of the value of the two. o is 3. the cycles and CDS voted against,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u227	Yeah! [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u228	...because you think the tips of the two. o is 3. the cycles should be even more aggravated. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] Feel at ease with the situation! Now that they've gone down the tips of the licenses, they say they're worried about the 2nd. the cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u229	Yes, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u230	Mrs. Deputy, it's a great waste! [[CDS-PP protests.]] I had voted in favour of our proposal to freeze those values! You say that the reduction of propines is a help to the richest, but you are wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u231	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u232	It is not the reduction of propines that is regressive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u233	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u234	...the existence of propins is that it is regressive.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u236	The Constitutional Court itself in 1994 said something very simple: the introduction of a user/payer logic will only help families with more capacity and will harm families with more difficulty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u238	No, because of social action!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u239	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to have a discussion on this, I would advise you to review this judgment at a legal level, rather than always use the same tape, which is already being spent, because not even Mr President of the Republic is accompanying it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u240	We moved on to the second set of requests for clarification. Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u241	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Monteiro, the increase in investment in higher education and social action at school is precisely the way the CFP defends. We say that the answer cannot be just one of the ways, it must be on both: strengthening investment in higher education, a just law that eliminates the tips and, at the same time, an increase and a reinforcement of social action at school, and an increase in scope, which must be made and traced on these two paths. There are other parties who cannot say the same, for whom the universality of public services and the fulfilment of the Constitution itself is a confusion and who do not realize that it is due to the differentiation of taxes that social justice is effectively achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u243	And more: they are parties that also have a heavy baggage, because, on January 9, 2015, there was news that of the 86 000 grant applications only 62 000 cases had been dispatched. Therefore, these parties cannot now come to complain about the current situation without wanting to know what they did at the time when they were government. So be consistent now! We recognize that it is serious that, after four years, there are still 17 000 students waiting to respond to their grant request. Even if it was one, it was very serious! If, to the propines, to the lack of housing in homes, to the increase in rental costs, to the frequency costs with school materials and others, we also add delays in the payment of scholarships, we have an explosive cocktail that can result in the exclusion of thousands of students due to economic insufficiency. What we would like to ask, Mr Luís Monteiro, is whether indeed the path is the right one, to continue the exclusion, to continue the elitist, to continue the worsening of difficulties in higher education and science, or it must be the one proposed by the CFP, which is the increase in investment in public higher education, the repeal of the tips and also the need for the increase of either the scholarship amounts or the scope of the school social action. It must indeed be a path of greater justice, which is done in this way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u244	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Luís Monteiro, I welcome the issue that has brought here, which is, in fact, fundamental and important until this same theme is needed and so that the parties on our right understand some of the issues that are going on next to the debate. It is interesting and fascinating to hear Mr Álvaro Batista complain about the procedure for the integration of precariouss, when I do not remember an initiative on the part of the PSD, any manifestation of concern with PREVPAP, either in the general context, either in the context of higher education, and what the PSD would have to offer would certainly be zero places in regularization of precarious links. But all of a sudden, with the torn clothes, here comes the subject, as if the delay — which is indeed worrying and must be the subject of resolution — is the main issue. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, with all due respect, I also think that she makes a wrong reading of what is social reality, when she says that a reduction in propines benefits the rich. I would like to understand what is the concept of rich people in which a reduction of propines, in the proposed value for next year, has no fundamental impact on family budgets, even when they are not eligible for school social action. Of course, it has, because we do not look only at those who have the greatest need, and who are the beneficiaries of social action at school, we look at the whole middle class, which also has to have access to higher education and which, unfortunately, today does not have, because of the barriers that the prolines represent. But in this debate I would like to address the first question which Mr Luís Monteiro has put, which is important and fundamental and which has to do with delays. Indeed, there are delays, which are largely due to the computer problems of migration to the new system, but I would like to stress that the unbureauty effort that has been included in the regulation is also a step towards agitating and reducing the bureaucratic burden. Unfortunately, it has not been well in the sense that there are computer problems to be solved, but the desire and purpose remain and, on our part, will have our support to try to resolve and cooperate with the government in order to overcome this problem. And this, in a debate on funding higher education and costs, it is important to remember what the current government and the current majority that supports it have done, because the balance sheet is positive, either in the + Superior Programme, where the annual value of the mobility grant has been increased, either in the value of the housing supplement, which has increased, by being able to go up to 40 % of the IAS (indicating social support), either in the measures adopted in relation to students with special needs, who also have access, as before, to the award of grants, either through the already mentioned reduction of propines, or through the forecast that we have systematically been entering into the State budget. It is therefore shown that what Mrs PCP's Member also said is what is being done: look at both sides of the problem, increase and strengthen the support capacity of direct and indirect social action and increase, through the reduction of propines, the available income of family aggregates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u246	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u247	I shall conclude, Mr President. But above all — and I wanted to leave this note to conclude this intervention — the ambitious housing building programme, which, for the first time, views the housing problem as a structural issue for any student in higher education and which, thanks also to the efforts that this majority has been introducing, represents a very substantial number. Therefore, in this respect, Mr President, I would stress what is going on well, but I also agree that there is still a lot of work to be done, for which we are available. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u248	To reply, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party for the questions she asked and would take advantage to answer together some of the issues that have actually been articulated. The first refers to the importance of a response in the various ways: on the one hand, to fight the propines we have today and, on the other hand, to ensure a more robust social action system capable of solving the problems. On the other hand, I would like to invite the honourable Members. Members to note in the argument that the right has often used, especially in recent months, after the fall of the propines: they accuse the majority of parliament, who has approved the decline of the propines, of, with this measure increasing taxes, saying: « They will only be able to lower the propines if tax increases ». But then, when they propose more social stock exchanges, they no longer say that taxes are increased. Therefore, it is all a highly fallacious argumentary about state accounts and that forgets one very important thing: the system of taxes we have in the country is a progressive system of taxes and, therefore, those who earn more, pay more and those who earn less pay less. And it is precisely from there, it is precisely from this collection that invests itself in the universality of the social state and public services. So, no, sirs. Members, equity is not promoted in access to higher education at the university gate, with the check on the tip; equity in access to higher education is done, yes, on the basis of a system of progressive taxes, and that is what the right will attack so much, because it does not agree with what the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic says, in particular on the progressive freeness of all degrees of education. This is what bothers neoliberal hawks who at this time want to bet on a mere logic of social action service that only responds to a minority of those who cannot access higher education, rather than bet on the universality of the system. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Finally, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the issue of precariousness. We have already known the complicated situation in which the right is also in this respect: it has voted against PREVPAP and now complains that, in fact, it wants PREVPAP to succeed. It's extraordinary, it's extraordinary! One day they insult the precariouss of science,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u250	Stop fooling the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u251	... saying that they are the boys of the left parties, and the next day, they say: « Well, but these people who work so hard need to be integrated in higher education institutions ». There is no greater plough or greater phantom than the relationship that currently has the right argumentary with reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u252	Fantochada was what you did to the civil service workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u253	But, Mr President, it is important, yes, to ensure that the Socialist Party and the Government go beyond what they have done, in particular, with regard to PREVPAP, and cannot continue to give their hands to the principals who have declaredly boycotted the integration of precariousness into institutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u254	For a new political statement, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017 the country burned down, more than 100 people died and the forest was mentioned. In 2017, the country dried and barely saw and heard about the matter, except for the lack of water that struck Viseu and that led the government to a pathetic action of water transport between dams. Apart from that, which is very little, say to pass, there is a sector of the economy that has been away from public and political discourse since 2016. It is the agri-food sector and, with it, all the rural world. To talk about agriculture, for the PS, is to talk about flying cows and hooves. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u256	These are terms that may seem very nice and very funny to urban Portuguese, but that are a disrespect to those who live on earth,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ...for all men and women who work 365 days a year, from sun to sun, to produce the food that every day the remaining 10 million Portuguese put on their tables, to take care of the landscape that everyone else admires when they're going to spend the weekend. The PS again failed in an essential sector for the country. Definitely, PS and rural world are two terms that don't match. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u257	This is also a distinctive mark of the PS: whenever the PS governs, agriculture and farmers suffer. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And in recent years, the PS has done so with the complicity of the united left, which forget, despise and ignore all the rural world and those who live in the countryside. Mrs. Members, this is a PS government that says that it wants to stop the abandonment of the territory, but that it does not invest in the agricultural sector or in the rural world, it simply announces propaganda measures that do not emerge from the role. The RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ), which is the sector's main financing instrument, is only 50 % implemented at the end of four years, but the PS welcomes this. There are two years left to finish the Program and there are thousands of projects waiting for the announced death row. This government wanted to be the Robin of the Forests, but became the Sheriff of Nottingham.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u259	of what we know about the next programming period of Community funds, the country will lose 15 % of the funds for rural development, but the PS government finds a positive negotiation, because farmers will eventually have more or less the same money available, the problem will be even for the government, which will have to spend more on the State budget. For this government, any cent of the State budget placed in the agricultural sector is a hundred wasted in other sectors captured by ideological prejudices. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u260	The PS Government has recently presented its National Investment Programme 2030 ( PNI 2030 ), which says it is a strategic document to address the needs and challenges of the coming decades. But once again, the agricultural sector and the rural world are forgotten or relegated to the background. Let us see: in this document, the government identifies climate change as a huge challenge that the country will have to face, but it is concerned only about mitigating, decarbonizing, forgetting the need to adapt. And how will the PS government decarbonize? Investing in electric mobility and reducing cows by 40 % up to 2050.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u261	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u262	And what does the PS government forget to adapt? You do not have 1 € for water storage. in a country that is most likely to suffer from extreme climate events, where all experts say there will be more short periods of heavy rain and longer drought, it is urgent, in a document that is said to be strategic, to ensure that it will invest in water storage, when it falls, so that it can be used in the periods when it is missing. And you're going to miss it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not only for agriculture, but also for public supply. In fact, we saw what happened in Viseu in 2017. If there were any doubts, just realize that the 2030 PNI speaks in water storage only for the irrigation. It is EUR 750 million. It is a lot, some might think, but it is very little, if we think it is only 3% of the more than EUR 20 billion in the 2030 NIP. In fact, when we talk about water—and I give the example of the Tejo basin, which is the country's most problematic, the Minister of the Environment says: 'it would be strange if the rivers did not run to the sea'. And Mr. Minister of Agriculture, when confronted with the non-inclusion of a project to regulate Tejo water in the 2030 NIP — the Tejo Project —, says that there is no project but only a visionary idea of project. The PS government has once again left its mark of total ignorance and devaluation of the important role of the rural world. In the years 2011 to 2015, when Portugal was recovering from the bankruptcy in which the Socialist Party placed it, it was the agricultural sector that pushed the economy. in this period, exports grew more than the rest of the economy, which does not happen now. Unfortunately, that's not the legacy the PS will leave. Exports are growing at a much lower rate and the sector's trade balance deficit is worsening. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, farmers do not need the government to give them'money bags', which Mr Agriculture says you do not have to give. Farmers need a Minister of Agriculture who has political power in the government and Brussels...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u264	... and to guarantee the necessary funds, both inside and outside, either to train and boost the most competitive and enterprising, either to support the smaller, less specialized and that, although they are not competitive, they maintain and occupy the territory and provide the so-called « ecosystem services ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u266	Farmers need the Minister of Agriculture to understand them and to defend them against the attacks of their government colleagues, such as when the Minister of the Environment says that he wants to end the cows by 2050 or that, in order to solve the problem of climate change and lack of water, they only need to be more efficient in the recreation. Unfortunately, farmers know for a long time that they cannot count on the PS, nor on this majority, captured by ideological prejudices against private property, against companies, against animal production and against profit. But the CDS, on agriculture, once again says « present », and says « present » consistently, because what we are defending today is what we did yesterday and what we plan for tomorrow. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u267	You have four requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u268	I'll answer every two gentlemen. Members, together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u269	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, first of all, I must congratulate you on bringing here the theme of agriculture and the rural world. I want to tell you that talking about agriculture and the rural world also combines with talking about the House of Douro and Douro. The Region Demarcada do Douro is the oldest demarcated region of wine production, dating back to 1756, in order to ensure the quality and regulation of the wines of the Port and its trade and to avoid the harmful effects of the activity of the English merchants. Since then, the Demarcado do Douro Region, as well as the production of Port wine, have been given special care in its regulation, with a very important role played by the former Douro House, a reference institution in the Durian region. In 2014, the former Government decided to take advantage of the fragility of the House of Douro, the fruit of unfortunate and incapacitated management to end it as a public association. in an extremely troubled and contentious process—which is still continuing today, in the courts, with eager protagonists of power—the new House of Douro was assigned to a private foundation. It was a lamentable process to which there was not a lack of a raid on the iconic building in the Peso da Régua. A process in which the CDS, its party, and the Ministry then led by the current Mrs. Mrs. Assunção Cristos, which, by way of indication, on the day on which the discussion of agriculture is not even present in the plenary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u271	What about Deputy Catarina Martins? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u272	... maneuvered the strings and to which the previous right majority provided political support. We are now in the final phase of a legislative process initiated at the initiative of the Left Block, aiming to restore the House of Douro as an association of public law and compulsory registration. This morning — and the honourable Member was also there — we heard in committee a wide range of protagonists from the Douro region. We have listened carefully to everyone, but we cannot but underline the unanimous position adopted by the Intermunicipal Community ( CIM ) of Douro, consisting of 19 municipalities, being 12 of the majority PSD, 6 of the majority PS and an independent. The Inter-municipal Community has unanimously declared the restoration of the House of Douro as an association of public law and compulsory registration for all, aiming to regulate the trade of grapes in the region and the bag of generous wine. Mrs. Deputy, in front of the unanimous position of these authorships, deep acquaintances of the region,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u273	There's for all tastes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u274	... on which it will certainly not come to suspicion of being dangerous radical extremists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u275	That, no, because we don't have that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u276	... it is time for the CDS to recognize the instability and the false step to which it has contributed decisively and also to pass on to defend the restoration of the House of Douro as a public association of compulsory registration and with regulatory powers. This, Mrs. Member, has everything to do with the rural world, has everything to do with agriculture,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u277	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u278	...it has everything to do with the landscape, it has everything to do with our economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u279	Mr Nuno Serra, from the PSD, now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating Mrs Patrícia Fonseca on the subject she has brought here, on the relevance of this economic area in our country. I would also like to tell you that your words show very well that there is a complete disregard of this government as far as the rural world is concerned. In fact, it is not only a disorientation, it is a contempt and also a lack of strategic vision regarding national agriculture, which has allowed the Minister of Agriculture to be completely commanded and bound up with the ideological prejudices of the extreme-left parties and the measures of other members of the Government that are completely out of the importance of the primary sector for Portugal. An example of this is the fact that the Minister of Agriculture is caught up in successive seizures and the lack of investment to which the Minister of Finance has subjected the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u282	Despite the Minister of Agriculture holding 50 % of the overall implementation of the RDP ( Regional Development Programme ), the fact is that in 2018 we had only 10 % of the implementation of this Programme, contrary to previous years, in which we had 13 %, in addition to investment, which was reduced to less than half of what it was in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Another example is that we have the Minister arrested for the objectives imposed by the Minister of the Environment, for whom the rural world and agricultural activity are a mere landscape, showing the greatest disorientation. Let us see: the Minister of the Environment wants to reduce water for agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture presents a National Regadios Programme; the Minister of the Environment wants to reduce the effective cattle, the Minister of Agriculture says no; the Minister of the Environment wants to increase the area of forest and eucalyptus over the next 30 years, the Minister of Agriculture wants to ban. Then we also see the Minister of Agriculture imprisoned for a set of decisions and statements by the Minister of Culture that call into question such important activities for the rural world. At the end of everything, who's in charge? What is the way to agriculture in Portugal? What is the national agricultural policy? Who defines it? Who's in charge? Is he the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of Culture or, indeed, the Minister of Agriculture? I leave you with the following questions: do you consider, as the PSD has defended, that it is urgent to develop a strategy for national agricultural policy? Does the Minister for Agriculture agree or not that there has been a lack of political affirmation within his current government? Does the Minister consider whether or not he is free to create, innovate and dynamize the rural world when he is engaged in finance, the environment, the culture, the extreme-left parties? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u283	Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u284	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Matias and Mr Nuno Serra for the questions that have raised me and which are very relevant. Mr. Carlos Matias, I would like to tell you that I regret that the view for agriculture and the strategy for the agricultural sector of the Block of the Left is limited to the House of Douro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u285	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u286	In fact, I was present today, just like you, at the hearing, with a huge set of entities who came to talk about the House of Douro and its concerns. What we heard was that the CIM defended something that didn't represent all the frequencies that were there too and that didn't feel represented. But above all, Mr. Member, we have heard the producers, all those who produce wine, because the House of Douro is not of the authorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u287	It's not even the politicians they want to send there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u288	...it is from the winegrowers, it is from those who produce and sell wine, and it is to those whom the House of Douro should serve. The House of Douro should serve the interests of the Durian winegrowers and should continue to pacify and leave the Durian wine sector at peace. That is what we have heard of who represents the sector and who is against the project of the Left Block, also supported by the PS project.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u289	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u290	As far as Mr Nuno Serra is concerned, I would like to say that he could not in fact agree with what he is presenting to us. In fact, we have heard the Minister of the Environment say that he wants fewer cows and we have seen the Minister of Agriculture come quickly and say that the reduction of cattle will not solve the decarbonisation. We saw Mrs. Minister of Culture defending a culture of taste, saying it's a civilizational issue...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u292	...and to attack the traditions of the rural world, having immediately some Members of the Socialist Party defended the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u293	You guys don't defend him!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u294	We have also heard the Minister of the Environment say that water needs to be saved and that, in the event of drought, instead of increasing storage capacity, we have to water less, which is a complete contradiction. With regard to the PDR, the Minister for Agriculture spends his life saying that the PDR is very good and that he feels very happy about it, but here I have some graphs that clearly show that the PDR is very, very, very below the very objectives to which the Government is proposing, because the Government has put, every year, less than EUR 100 million of the State budget in the PDR. In addition, it is curious that the PDR is carrying out 50 % and that what has saved its execution is the so badly damaged hole of 200 million agri-environmental people. It was not agro-environmental and the PDR would be on the streets of bitterness, without any kind of execution, would be even below 30 %! This Minister of Agriculture is captured by the interests of the left. In fact, it does not even serve the very interests of the left, because even the Communist Party was very upset with the status of family farming which has so much defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u295	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u296	Even the Portuguese Communist Party was not content with what the government promised and which, after all, did not. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u297	We now move on to the second round of questions. You have the floor to ask for clarifications from the CFP, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mrs Patrícia Fonseca on the relevant issue she brings — agriculture and the rural world. When I first heard his political statement and began to say that the country burned and dried, also talking about the destruction of the agri-food sector, I even had a reluctance to hope that the CDS would make today, here, an act of contribution and recognize the responsibilities it has in the destruction of national agriculture and even in the tragic fires of 2017, which are also your responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u299	The boys who were fired were yours! That's your responsibility! It's in your hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u300	If you think you're here to hide your responsibilities, you're so wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u301	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u302	They want to make it appear that they do not have these responsibilities and want to forget the heavy responsibilities they had in the Ministry of Agriculture, particularly when they were in the government, but Mrs Cristas was even responsible for destroying practically the entire forest sector with the transfer of more than EUR 150 million to the agribusiness of the forest industry. They have heavy responsibilities, because it was your Minister who led to the withdrawal of thousands of small farmers, who were forced to collect themselves only to sell a branch of salsa. Look what this has to do with it! It was also your Minister who passed the law against the baddies, against Community property. More, and already mentioned here, it is also your responsibility, it is the responsibility of the CDS to destroy the House of Douro, which gave it to private management, as well as all its rich heritage, which is so lacking in wine production.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u303	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u304	They wanted to destroy the one who is a heritage of the Douro winegrowers! The CDS has no memory and comes here to say that it is « present», but the only thing it has in mind is the commitment to agribusiness! That, yes, you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u305	« You’ are there with the comrades of the Communist Party in Beja!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u306	As for the 2020 RDP, which you are here questioning, in the time when they were government in the time of the PRODER, we do not forget that the funds were essentially for the big agribusiness in a perfectly unequal distribution. Many and many farmers, those who needed the most, were out of access to the funds and 80 % of the funds were allocated to only 20 % of the farmers. He has now spoken of the status of family farming. I must tell you that, of course, I did not expect you to talk about family agriculture, not about small and medium sized agriculture. We have an opportunity here and we are challenging the government and the PS so that in this political solution we can publish the status of family farming. We need more, we need a set of measures that are being implemented, we need this status to be effective and to benefit from the small and medium-sized agriculture, because neither the Member of Parliament, nor the CDS, nor the PSD are turning to agribusiness. For that, yes, they say they are present! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u307	Mr. João Castro, from the PS, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would begin by congratulating the CDS and Mrs Patrícia Fonseca on her political statement to us. Although deeply disagreeing with its content, we hope that it will repeat it many times, because it was quite enlightening about what differs from us. He took advantage of the implementation of the Government's Portuguese Agriculture Programme, approved in this House, with emphasis on the continuation of internationalisation, with the opening of new markets, the most recent example being China, reaffirming the organization and competitiveness of the sector and confirming the growth of exports in the order of 6 %. I stress the implementation of the Government's Programme by highlighting the positive discrimination of small agriculture and family farming in implementation, the reform of the forest and the enhancement of the territory, with the holding of three meetings of the Council of Ministers on this subject, approving more than 18 diplomas aimed at meeting conditions of irreversibility in the policies pursued, in addition to the regulations already in force, with the strengthening of the Permanent Forest Fund, with the registration — already being more than half of the rustic buildings identified and cartographed — and providing for their extension to the whole country after the completion of pilot experiments in 10 municipalities, or with the Agency for the Integrated Management of Rural Fires, which did not exist. More: the sector has a global budget of the Ministry of Agriculture in the order of 2000 million euros, calls for a new organic for the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et das Florestas), increasing the capacity, the human and material resources, to correspond to its interventions, after your Government has fired it. With regard to the measures to be taken in response to the win of external financing obtained from the EIB ( European Investment Bank ) in the Rural Development Programme ( RDP ), Portugal being in the best budgetary executions in the European context, with contracted expenditure already exceeding EUR 1500 million, it has never been paid so much and, although, it has never been paid so soon, affecting even significant resources for advances. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] Mrs Patrícia, I'm glad the CDS now says to be present. I should have said it before, but I'm glad you say it now. in this context, it left the following question: after the inherited financial hole,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u309	Hole? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u310	... of around EUR 300 million in agri-environmental measures, as you well remember, as a 100 % RDP financial implementation I repeat, as has happened in the last three years, which meets the expectations and challenges facing national agriculture? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u311	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u312	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr. João Dias and Mr. João Castro asked me the questions they asked and the opportunity they gave me to clarify you. Mr. João Dias, I wasn't here at the beginning of this legislation, but it's funny, because, when this government took possession, that's how I started my intervention, precisely on the House of Douro and on the baldiums...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u313	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u314	...and the fact that this government is captured in the interests of the CFP to destroy what had been done...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u315	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u316	...to democratize the access of all the Fregues to the baldis and to pacify the House of Douro, of which I have already spoken in my previous intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u317	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u318	So, honourable Member, as regards the responsibilities that the CDS has toward the agricultural sector, we are very proud of this because we left the sector much better than we found it. We left a dynamic, rising sector with two types of agriculture. You probably did not hear, but during my speech, I had the opportunity to say that, apart from the competitors, we had to support the smaller ones, the less specialized ones and that, although they were not competitive, they remained and occupied the territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u319	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u320	What distinguishes us, Mr President, is that you only want the small ones and we understand that there must be room for the small ones and the great ones. This is the fact that distinguishes us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u321	Mr. João Castro wanted to say that I can't help but find some of the things he tells us here. He claims they have fulfilled the Government Programme, which opened the market. Mr President, I have heard the Minister for Agriculture say at least three times that he has opened the market in China. I said so many times that I even thought there would be several Chinas and that I didn't know geography very well. [[Protests by PS MP João Azevedo Castro.]] Finally, China's market was opened. All the other markets which Mr Minister has opened have been - in the trailer of what the European Union has also opened, rather than looking for other markets proactively. I'm glad to open them! All those who open are welcome, because they are an opportunity for small and large farmers to export, put our products out there...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u322	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u323	...and with this, they sell more, export more, create wealth and also bring to Portugal foreigners who want to prove our products. The honourable Member spoke to us after the diplomas, the Council of Ministers, the registration, the Permanent Forestry Fund... there you are! In fact, it corresponds to what I said in the gallery: the PS makes advertisements, ads, propaganda ads that don't come out of paper. It is not enough to legislate, Mr. It's not worth legislating much when you're wrong. It is necessary, yes, to execute on the ground. But the measures don't come out of paper. With regard to the implementation of the 2020 RDP, you are concerned with confusing Portuguese, saying they run 100 %, but it is 100 % of what is planned for the year. It is that if they had run 100 % they would no longer have money to spend.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u324	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u325	But even what you intend to spend, see, Mr President, is not executed. Every year in the State budget, the Minister says he will spend 100 million euros. And the Minister has never spent EUR 100 million on the State budget. Mr Minister, in 2016, spent 90 million, which was not 100 %. It's always down. In fact, the picture and the chart I showed you are perfectly clear and elucidative of what I'm saying. Therefore, Mr President, there are 24 000 projects that are not known where they are and to which the Ministry does not respond. I'm on the street, I'm in touch with farmers...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u326	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u327	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying on the street, I have contact with farmers every week and what I hear is that they have a lot of misses from the previous government, because, in fact,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u328	Yeah, yeah! The misses are going to see each other in October!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u329	Farmers say they miss the previous government because now the investment does not take off, there are no payments made and the projects are hanging in the Management Authority, in the Ministry corridors, and there is no possibility of investing. Mr President, there is indeed a great difference between us! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u330	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 477 / XIII / 3. a ( José Miguel Cardoso Marques et al.) — They request the audit of the case of the Advocates and Applicants. I'm asking the ladies. Members who intend to speak on this point are in favour of joining. Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor from now on for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to petition is an increasingly important and privileged instrument for the approximation and political participation of citizens. I would therefore like to congratulate the 4523 petitioners who, through the exercise of the right of petition, addressed to the Assembly of the Republic, realizing a right and freedom. The petitioners are entitled, irrespective of the object of the petition, to be received by the public authorities and to be duly appreciated by them — as indeed it was — and they are solely responsible for the conformation of the object of the petition. Having said that, it should be said that the petitioners addressed the Assembly of the Republic and also the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the Bartonary of the Order of Advocates, the Governor of the Order of Appeals and Executive Officers, the President of the Office of the Safety Board of Lawyers and Applicants and the Supervisory Board thereof, requesting that the necessary and appropriate procedures be carried out for carrying out an accounting audit, financial, management, external and independent, the Safety Board of Lawyers and Applicants. They therefore intend to assess the economic and financial robustness of the Safety and Sustainability Fund in the long term and also want an analysis of the financial years from 2008 to the present, thereby clarifying all the responsibilities of their decision-makers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legal nature of the Safety Board, an institution of autonomous security, with legal personality, with its own regime and with private management, greatly limits the scope of the claims brought here by the petitioners, under penalty of violation of the constitutional principle of separation of powers. However, we believe that the social concerns of the petitioners with the financial sustainability of the CPAS (Privacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants) naturally require reflection and are fully understandable, given the increase in the contributions paid by lawyers without the corresponding increase in benefits. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is not indifferent to the numerous problems and constraints felt by lawyers and applicants, somewhat throughout the country, in this matter, as well as in other matters relating to the exercise of their profession. It is necessary to recognise a set of claims relating to the exercise of the profession of lawyer. Trainee lawyers, for example, face numerous difficulties at the beginning of the profession and cannot be the new slaves in any way. Today, counsel is exercised differently, there are more lawyers, there is a lot of precariousness. Individual and traditional counseling has passed the exception and the rule are the great societies. That is why, of course, new answers are required. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, and finally, no real justice will be done with vulnerable lawyers in their rights and poverty. The country must reflect on the conditions for the exercise of counsel, realize its difficulties, both those of lawyers and those of trainees, intervene in order to value the profession — which is a noble and dignified profession — and ensure rights, especially social protection rights. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u332	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The financial health and sustainability of CPAS has long been a problem that remains open. The recently reformed contribution regime, let us say, is an additional problem, which adds gravity to this first one, precisely because the capacity of the CPAS to give an increased response corresponding to the increase in contributing responsibilities on the part of the lawyers remains an unclear reality. It is clear that, in this situation, in this question, there is, in this question, an accumulated responsibility over time by professionals who have long failed to fulfil their contribution obligations or who are significantly less than what should be discounted for the Lawyers' and Applicants' Safety Box. But more than past responsibilities, it is of present problems that we are here dealing with this petition. The problem has a name and it is: precarious practice of lawyers in Portugal and in general countries. In fact, the profile of this profession has changed, changed significantly, and of the old model of the liberal professional, with individual office or small-society office, we clearly shifted to a dualism between large societies, in which precariousness is precisely in young lawyers, in one — I would say — a multitude of young trainees, employees, therefore, and, on the other hand, small offices, where the struggle for survival is day by day. It is this situation, this social and economic condition which requires a right to social security that is fair and sustainable. However, the current regime is assumed, it is perceived, it is experienced by a significant number of lawyers as a regime that is not fair. It's not fair. Justly, the calculation of the contribution effort, based on the assumed net income and not on the basis of the actual yield, often having very significant discrepancies between the two, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the rate of contribution that are set at a very rapid growth—from 21 % to 24 % between 2018 and 2020 — to which further update due to indexation for the minimum guaranteed monthly remuneration, all this makes this an effective problem, to which it is important to respond and to which this House must give full attention. Therefore, the reliability requirement must be maximum. from our point of view and within conditionalisms—which Mrs Sandra Pereira has now underlined—which, of course, has to do with the scrupulously respect we have in this matter, and in all others, by the principle of separation of powers, the conduct of an audit, with the contours placed on this petition, would facilitate the perception by lawyers of the strength of the CPAS, or lack of it. Therefore, from our point of view, it can be an instrument that contributes to the credibility of an instrument that is lacking in credibility. We do not understand, and with this end, the argument of some people, of course, some lawyers, who invoke that conducting an audit would constitute an avalanche in the trust of that institution. We don't think so. The rejection of trust is the lack of unionability, the lack of scrutiny by an independent entity that contributes to a peaceful clarification of the contours of the dimension of the issue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u334	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to greet you. Petitioners who are present and the other subscribers, in a total of 4523, who basically want what the honourable Members have already said. Mr Sandra Pereira and Mr José Manuel Pureza, who is the conduct of an accounting, financial, management and legal audit at the Law Enforcement Board of Lawyers and Applicants in order to assess their economic robustness and financial sustainability. The problem, according to the petitioners, has to do with the changes made in 2015, in which, in the name of the sustainability of this Box, changed and increased tax rates and therefore there are now some problems, having the petitioners this view of the problem. CPAS is a social security subsystem for independent professionals, lawyers and applicants, and it has always based on the same principles. This has not changed, nor with the 2015 amendments. There was, indeed, a gradual increase in rates for their sustainability, as he said, but who has this guardianship is the Government and the Government ensures that the sustainability of the Box is ensured at least until 2031. We understand the concerns and difficulties and we do not even ignore that the CPAS has not always had the care dimension, which it should have, and that it does not yet have fully yet, but the truth is that there have been some improvements and, in recent years, some changes have been made that have greatly improved the care domain of this Box. I recall, for example, some recent changes already in this government, and therefore I am fully prepared to promote them, namely the promotion of the equitable contribution of beneficiaries or the elimination of the mandatory contribution of trainees. I also recall the suspension of payment of contributions in situations of temporary incapacity for work due to serious illness or particular parenthood situation. I remember the change in the way in which the basis of the contribution incidence was cleared, which became dependent on the updated indexing concept based on the consumer price index, among other changes that were recently made and that helped to improve the current state of affairs. The CDS does not see a great need for this audit, but, of course, it does not oppose it. It will certainly not do so, and if the government wants to do so, we have no position of principle against it. However, this House of the Republic has already done its work on this matter: it has sent to the ministries responsible for this petitioners' request so that the Government will determine this audit. The Assembly of the Republic has no power to do on its own and therefore if the Government wishes to do on our part there is no problem about it, but we believe — bad for us if we did not believe it — that sustainability is actually guaranteed until 2031. What is needed is to continue to improve the system and to ensure sustainability and also the assistanceist side, which should not be lacking in this Safety Box. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u336	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we wanted to greet the petitioners and say that the debate that took place a few months ago around the case of lawyers and solicitors has produced its effects. It has had consequences here in the Assembly of the Republic, where we have spoken on this matter and where there has been even a resolution adopted. However, the alerts to the situation in which young lawyers were, in particular, faced with the contribution obligations laid down in the Rules of the Law Box for Lawyers and Applicants, have led to the fact that this issue is effectively under discussion and that, from the time of the submission and processing of this petition to this day, there have been, in fact, several developments which are considerable and which need to be noted. What is the subject of this petition is not concrete by this House, i.e. it is not this House that will decide to hold an audit at the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Box - this can only be done by entities that have a direct guardianship over this entity. However, even after the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, there was a committee which operated, with representatives of the Order of Advocates, the Safety Board, the Ministries concerned, in particular the Social Security and the Court of Justice, and in some ways the situation of the Safety Board was audited and measures adopted which entered into force last December with the Decree of 21 December, which is intended to correspond to a number of issues that have been raised, in particular to lawyers who are not in a position to contribute in accordance with the provisions of the previous Regulation. We can say that these measures are the result of a call for attention which has been made with regard to the very complicated situation, if not impossible to achieve, with which many lawyers have been confronted. This Safety Box has a difficulty starting in so far as it is a system closer to a pension fund than the general social security scheme itself. This is indeed a congenital difficulty with which we are faced. In fact, the precarious situation affecting thousands of lawyers in our country, particularly the younger ones, poses major challenges in responding to the contribution obligations. Also lawyers who are in a situation of incapacity, although temporary, for the exercise of the profession, taking into account the fact that there is a large deficit in the care of the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Box, remain in a situation of practice impossible to contribute. I stress that this diploma, which came into force on 21 December 2018, recently, seeks to answer some questions and does so, even corresponding to objections put by those who have come to rule on this matter, for whom it has come to draw attention to the most serious problems. We hope that it will indeed have an effect, but this is a matter for which we are obviously available to monitor and seek to intervene in order to correct injustices that are detected in respect of the specific contribution scheme for lawyers. They will count on our understanding and our participation in order to be able to solve these problems as best as possible. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u338	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Tavares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to greet Dr. José Miguel Marques, first subscriber to the petition today under discussion, and, in his person, all those who subscribed to it, and were more than 4000, and thus all lawyers who daily have a fundamental, irreplaceable role in the realization of justice and, above all, in access to it, as a fundamental right that is. Now, this petition is of the greatest importance and came at a time when lawyers were deeply displeased and, above all, concerned about their future and the danger that they considered to exist as a collapse of the Advocates and Applicants' Safety Box. It should, however, be noted from the outset that the Lawyer and Applicants' Safety Box is an autonomous, private-management institution with the object of social security and protection of lawyers and associates of the Order of Applicants, therefore it is up to the CPAS supervisory body, and not to the Assembly of the Republic, to verify the performance of their accounts. Moreover, the petitioners also refer to the progressive deterioration of the economic conditions of the beneficiaries of the CPAS, as well as the absence of counter-shares in social security similar to those in the social security system, particularly in relation to parenthood, disability, child support and disease. They alert to the fact that lawyers and, as a result, members of the Order of Applicants continue to have little protection in parenthood and very little protection in the disease and in situations where work cannot be provided. In fact, it is recalled that lawyers do not have parental leave, nor are they entitled to sick leave, and the support that exists has been claimed by all as insufficient, not to say non-existent. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is that this is the time when there has been both society and the government and the European Union, the concern that there is an extension of the recognition of social rights such as parental, sickness and unemployment benefit to self-employed people. This situation is already a reality in our country since 1 January 2019 with the entry into force of the new Contribution Regime of Independent Workers, so either lawyers or applicants not covered by this scheme are perhaps the only professionals to whom these rights are not recognised. However, it seems to us that this is precisely where our attention should be focused, and it cannot fail to mention the proposal for a European Council recommendation on access to social protection for workers either on the other hand or on its own behalf, including liberal professionals. This recommendation calls on the Member States of the European Union to create conditions that guarantee access to compulsory social support in parenthood, disease to all workers, whether they are professionals or not on behalf of others. In other words, liberal professionals are also covered by this recommendation. This, yes, must be our priority and it must be here that we should focus our attention on preparing for the future. In short, it is important that there is a fair correspondence between the revenues received, the contributions paid and the social contributions arising from it. Lawyers and applicants should not continue to be treated unequally either in the disease or in parenthood. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has been attentive and sensitive to this reality. In fact, we are working on a solution that can help to ensure that the profession of lawyer or solicitor can be exercised in a more dignified way in relation to parenthood and thus in case of illness. Lawyers and applicants are fundamental agents for the realization of justice and should therefore also be treated with justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u340	We pass on to the assessment of Petition No 489 / XIII / 3. a ( Pedro Miguel Dias Vaz Paulo et al.) — They request a referendum on the legislation of prized delation and unjustified enrichment. For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a petition proposing a referendum on unjustified enrichment and awarding. I would also like, from now on, to welcome all those who have subscribed to this petition and who are more than 4000 and who, although knowing that it does not actually open any legislative process, always intends to alert those who are the representatives of the citizens. For the present petitioners, the referendum with this statement is entirely in accordance with all electoral programs that all parties have submitted and that effectively intend to reduce corruption. Moreover, the text of the petition in question cites passages from the electoral programmes of all political parties to support it and says that Portuguese justice cannot perform miracles if it does not have a set of laws allowing to penalise corrupt acts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has been struggling for transparency in institutions. In fact, criminalization of illicit enrichment is a very personal matter. We believe that the establishment of trust in institutions is only made when there is trust in political actors. This is indeed the instrument that we have repeatedly said is needed in our legal system. The PSD will, of course, not tire of continuing to seek a solution that can meet constitutional jurisprudence and, in some way, some legal norm that can criminalize such behavior, and a State solely oriented in its action to defend the public interest. That they can always count on. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u342	It is also true that the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions is in operation, which has three proposals which also defend the criminalization of unjustified enrichment, a legal figure that does not exist in our legal order, but which has already carried out a long work in the Assembly of the Republic. But here, in particular, the petitioners intend that the Assembly of the Republic approve the conduct of a referendum in terms which have already been stated, although we know that two different matters are the subject of this petition, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic requires greater clarity and precision of the content of the solution that points to the petitioners for prized delation and unjustified enrichment, so that this content is materially in accordance with our Constitution. However, the PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the debate raised by the petitioners on the convictions that are exposed, in particular with regard to combating corruption and the existence of legislation that enables effective investigation and punishment of those responsible. We defend, however, that it is essential to see whether these figures are compatible, in the terms in which they are presented, with the fundamental principles of our rule of law. Finally, Mr President, we will always be present for a debate, provided it is effectively to make a positive path. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u343	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition raises two different types of problems. The first is that of the essential substance, let us say so; the second is about the fact that the petitioners ask that the House of the Republic legislate to have a referendum on this matter. from our point of view, it makes no sense to this request, that is, it does not deserve our agreement at all. In view of this, the question we are asking is the following: why should the Assembly of the Republic, which holds legislative power, be waiting for a referendum to fulfil what its legislative responsibilities are? As the petition itself explains, the programmes of the various political parties converge essentially with regard to the taking up of legislation against corruption practices, and they are regarded as a priority. Therefore, I do not effectively detect no reason why, by hypothetically summoning a referendum, if I made a table of that same circumstance. Therefore, this part of the request does not deserve our agreement at all. What is at stake, from the point of view of corruption legislation, has been the subject of our greatest attention. The Left Block took on this commitment and materialized it in several projects. I recall the proposal to create the transparency entity; the proposal to establish the exclusivity regime of Members; the proposal to criminalise unjustified enrichment, which is the subject of the same petition. Therefore, from our point of view, we do not wait any time for us to take on our responsibilities and commitments in this matter. In conclusion, I would like to say that we do not confuse this with social poisoning, let us say, and the denial of the rule of law for this purpose. We won't. We don't want to. We do not want political struggle, economic competition, mere personal revenge or group revenge to be now affected by the status of criminality or slaughter in the public square, which is what ultimately is intended and insinuated, I believe, with the award-winning delation. There is premium right in Portugal, it is possible, certainly, to fine-tune it, but do not count on the Left Block to create and feed a society of fools in Portugal, because we will not. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u345	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin by welcoming the petitioners for the exercise of citizenship in this matter and for the concern, which is consensual in this House, about the fight against corruption. I must say that it seems to me — and it seems to the Socialist Party — that this consensus has resulted in legislative action, with the expansion of the criminal types of corruption and the expansion of the means of research, both material and procedural. Therefore, the legislator has acted in accordance with that priority and the PS takes pride in its role as a proposer of these decisive legislative advances in combating corruption. To that end, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should all have the notion that what is negative is not that there are corruption processes of great visibility. What is negative, of course, is that there is corruption, but it is worse if there is corruption and there is no corresponding criminal process. Should we be satisfied? No, we must always be available to create measures that improve the fight against corruption. But it is true, as has already been mentioned, that the petition does not define exactly the contours of the two institutes which have come to propose, i.e. unjustified enrichment and awarding, if we take these institutes for their most current consecrations, they deserve us, in both cases, great reservations and do not think that they are positive contributions. As for unjustified enrichment, it has a recent past in this Parliament. In our view, it has always been a way of pretending that something was done, so obvious was the unconstitutionality of the proposals that were approved and rejected by the Constitutional Court. Clearly unconstitutional, because in a criminalization it must be clear to all what is the conduct that is forbidden or what is the omission that is forbidden. We can't start a result and we can't ignore the proof of conduct. And we cannot because this presumption — and this is the second argument — violates the principle of presumption of innocence by forcing those who defend themselves to prove, on the contrary, that their conduct is lawful. With regard to the award-winning delation, and once again taking an extreme example here of what would be its legal consecration, it is a regime in which justice itself is negotiated and in which corruption is ultimately punished, because there is someone against whom there are indications of the practice of a crime that ends up not being charged. And, in these terms, it is a regime that does not seem compatible with the Constitution, because the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office as the holder of criminal action has as it necessary to reflect his or her link to the law and not that autonomy to decide who is or is not accused, excluding the intervention of a judge and the guarantees of proof in court. It seems to us, therefore, that the legislator must continue in what has been his way in our criminal proceedings: to provide the judiciary with the means to prove the practice of criminal acts, not to exempt anyone from the charges against which there are indications and, on behalf of the rule of law, never to exempt the rule of law itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u347	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u348	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us be parties to the subject matter of this petition. On the basis of the proposal for a referendum on these matters, the Commission report, which was from the authorship of Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade, who has just spoken, equations the question correctly, i.e. a referendum affects one subject and not on two completely different matters and it is not possible, according to which the question is put by the petitioners, to find a question which is likely to be taken to the referendum, for lack of objectivity and precision of the question to be put. So let us leave aside the question of the referendum and go to the two questions put here: unjustified enrichment and award-winning delation. First of all, we want to say that, with regard to combating corruption, the biggest problem in our country is no longer a problem of law. There were several legislative packages on combating corruption in previous legislatures with significant effects and, therefore, we do not have a legal order that deals with impunity for corruption crimes. I believe, moreover, that in recent years it has even been patented, it has been before Portuguese society, that there are legal means. As far as material and human resources are concerned, that is another issue. We have also called attention to the urgent need of the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office to be provided with sufficient resources to combat a more effective form of crime whose investigation is, of course, complex. But with regard to these two institutes, we can say that in relation to unjustified enrichment we agree with the need and the possibility of legislative development on this matter, not in terms that have already been declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, and if we can still benefit from the doubt about its approval, in the conviction that it would not be unconstitutional, in the second time it was clearly intentional. Therefore, in the light of the first judgment, it was more than obvious that insisting on a solution such as that in which the parliamentary majority of then insisted, it would be doomed to failure, but would - we believe it is possible - and the work that has been carried out in the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions demonstrate that it is possible - that there will be an understanding regarding a legal consecration of the fight against unjustified enrichment. That is why we have even proposed that, in the context of the Commission's work, if this priority should be given to this matter, seeking to resolve it from a legislative point of view on the basis of the understanding of the common denominator to which it can be reached. And we are convinced, we are optimistic about the possibility of, in the short term, reaching an understanding. We have a different position in relation to the award-winning delation. We know that the Portuguese legal order already has some institutes, cautious, and indeed, of premium law, which had our support. But the possibility of the Public Prosecutor's office being able to negotiate, even above all without judicial control, with a complainant, i.e. with someone who has committed a crime, who is corrupt and who intends to isolate himself by denouncing someone who may even have committed no crime, makes the Public Prosecutor's Office participate in a real business with someone who intends to release crimes he has committed, and it is, in our view, a challenge to the rule of law. Therefore, they cannot count on us to introduce legislative measures in our country which directly contravene the principle of legality in the exercise of criminal action and which constitute a real face to a state of democratic law. So, prized delation, from our point of view, no. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u349	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that, contrary to what could be deducted from some of the speeches we have heard, this matter is important and makes all the sense, because what is at stake here and which is the substance of this petition, signed, as has been said, by more than 4000 people, is the fight against corruption. Moreover, realizing Mr. José Manuel Pureza's concerns, for example, and realizing his argument, it seems very obvious to me what the petitioners are saying to this House : they are saying that the parties have in their programmes this matter as an important matter, but if they do not legislate, then they will return the word to the citizens for a referendum. That's what you're saying. What I do not mean — and I share some of the views we have already heard — is that this referendum was possible, because, as soon as it started, a referendum on two different matters and at the same time would not be feasible or feasible. However, we know what has been done and what has not been done in terms of legislation in this area and we will examine the two matters in question here. As for the award-winning delation—it passes the expression to Brazilian, so to speak—it has no acceptance in our legal order and, in our opinion, it makes no sense that it has it in the terms in which it exists in Brazil. However, I would like to remind you that we already have several institutes and several advances that, not being the regime of the Brazilian-winning delation, are significant and positive advances of a regime that, in our legal order, is called award-winning collaboration. We have the penalty attenuation in the fight against drugs, we have the auxiliary agent in the collection of decisive evidence, we also have special cooperation, in criminal proceedings, in the collection of decisive evidence in relation to certain crime agents and we have the reduction of fines in cases of the competition law regime. So we have several situations and we remember, even, that it was at the initiative of the CDS that in 2007 we began to discuss and advance to the so-called repentance status, which, in essence, is also a formula of award-winning collaboration. I would also like to say that in 2010 the CDS led the initiative and introduction of the so-called urban crime, which, from our point of view, was also a significant step forward in combating corruption. This is in relation to the prized delation. With regard to illicit enrichment, as mentioned here during this debate, the CDS, together with the PSD, presented in the previous legislature a proposal which has been declared unconstitutional. We tried, on a second occasion, with some amendments, to reintroduce the so-called illegal enrichment regime and, on a second time, the Constitutional Court declared it unconstitutional. Here, what conclusions can we draw? First of all, that these schemes, and then at the beginning of the so-called award-winning collaboration, can be improved. The awarded collaboration regime can go further and we can work in this direction. We're available for that. Secondly, with regard to illicit enrichment, we have two possible ways: either we follow a completely different way — tax or other — or then we accept the challenge that the CDS has made here too, a few months ago, to think whether or not this matter can be worked, particularly in the context of constitutional review, which obviously also prevents us from having a referendum.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u351	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u352	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. In our legal order, as Mr President knows better than anyone, the referendum on constitutional matters is not possible. Therefore, what we leave behind is the availability to work and improve these matters, in order to try to establish a better system of award-winning delation and a possible regime to combat illicit enrichment, because, I repeat and underline, the fight against corruption is a fundamental battle. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u353	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on our agenda, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to give information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in relation to draft resolution No 1930 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Panama, voted on on the 11th day, the Assembly of the Republic was informed that, for technical reasons, the scale of this displacement will take place in Halifax. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-16.u355	The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on Thursday. First, we will discuss draft resolutions Nos 1887 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of a contingency action plan to take urgent measures to mitigate the overall impacts of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union and 1928 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a contingency action plan to minimize the effects and consequences of a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. Secondly, we will discuss draft resolution No. 1824 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government establish a proportional limit for wage disparity within each organisation. Thirdly, we will generally discuss draft laws Nos 1050 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Legalizes the cannabis for personal use and 1062 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the adult use of cannabis. Fourthly, we will appreciate Petition No 436 / XIII / 3. a ( Live Animals Transport Platform ) — Abolition of the transport of live animals by sea to Countries outside the European Union, Resolution Projects Nos 1214 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement a regime in which the transport of live animals via long-term travel to third countries is permitted only in exceptional situations, 1215 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it do not include in the programmes to support livestock production the allocation of any public incentive to livestock production undertakings exporting live animals to third countries and 1594/13 / 3. a ( The Greens) — Limitation and adaptation of the transport of live animals and the Drafts of Law No 719 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Takes more animal welfare measures with regard to the transport of live animals and 1051 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — regulates the long-term transport of live animals. Fifthly, we will appreciate Petition No 458 / XIII / 3. a ( Verónica Sofia Varela de Matos et al.) — They request the free availability of medicine for spinal muscle atrophy. In the sixth and last place, we will appreciate petitions 431 / XIII / 3. a ( Jorge Van Krieken Mota et al.) — They call for measures to defend sustainable local housing and 441 / XIII / 3. a (Ana Gloria Setas Teixeira Lopes Ferro and others) — They request the adoption of measures in the context of local accommodation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all for today. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 57 minutes.]]
