ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, I ask you to open the gates of the galleries. It should be remembered that elections are taking place for several important bodies, such as the National Elections Commission, the Presidency of the Economic and Social Council, the Superior Council of the Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, which are held, as usual, in Sala D. Maria. Let us then begin our order of work with the appreciation of Petition No 589 / XIII / 4. a ( José Duarte de Almeida Ribeiro and Castro et al.) — They request the amendment of the Electoral Law of the Assembly of the Republic, advocating the reform of the electoral system. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr Pedro Rodrigues, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is, of course, addressed to the petitioners, complimenting them for bringing to this House a central theme for the regeneration of the political system but also about the extraordinary debate that has been generated in Portuguese society, in which petitioners have a fundamental role. Our political system and our electoral system were thought and structured in 1979, with three fundamental objectives: to ensure the consolidation of the democratic process, to guarantee governmental stability and parliamentary stability and to ensure the implementation of a multi-party system that faced the desires and ambitions of the Portuguese. After 40 years on the approval of the Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic, the challenges posed to the exercise of the parliamentary mandate have changed deeply. Today, citizens are extraordinarily demanding with their representatives. Today, citizens have a greater follow-up to the exercise of their parliamentary mandate and hope that their representatives will be able to respond to their immediate problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u4	However, this is not compatible, Mr President, with the fact that half of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic are elected in only four electoral circles, while in seven electoral circles at least half of the Members elected by the Lisbon electoral circle are not elected. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my second word is deeply regrettable. It is deeply regrettable that the Socialist Party, in all elections since 1995, has undertaken the commitment with the Portuguese to amend the Electoral Law to the Assembly of the Republic and as soon as it takes power, so the Prime Minister assumes functions seem to be attacked by an outbreak of selective amnesia and put the reform in the drawer! [[All right! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u5	This was the case, Mr President, in 1995, in 1999, that was the case in 2005, that was the case in 2009, that was the case in 2015, and that was also the case in 2019! « It is essential to reform the electoral system and adopt mechanisms that expand and stimulate democratic participation». Mr President, this is not my sentence. This sentence was not even delivered by any PSD leader. This phrase is included in the Socialist Party Election Program and we have found identical formulations in all Socialist Party electoral programs since 1995! Mr President, it is incomprehensible that the Government's programme does not contemplate the reform of the electoral system. « It is unacceptable that an electoral commitment has been broken that has just been suffraged ». This phrase, with which I recall, of course, has not been given by me nor by any PSD leader. This phrase was delivered by a senior national leader of the Socialist Party. But the PSD, Mr. Members, unlike the PS, do not forget their commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u6	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u7	I will finish, Mr. President. The PSD, unlike the PS, will fully comply with the contract it has established with the Portuguese that is registered in its Electoral Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u9	Therefore, we are available to reform the electoral law in this legislature, be the PS in line with its historical tradition and fulfill the commitments it has made with the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u10	For the CFP's Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From time to time, there are initiatives calling for the amendment of the electoral system to the Assembly of the Republic as a sort of panacea that would solve all the problems of the political system. That's not true. In fact, our electoral system has resisted on time for good reasons. In the early years of democracy, there were those who defended the majority system, because it said that the proportional representation system generated the country's ingovernability, which was not possible to have governability, because it was not possible to generate absolute majority with this electoral system. Well, life has shown the opposite: we have already had several absolute majority, including single parties, with this electoral system. The fact is that the proportional representation system has already allowed the most diverse governmental solutions, so it has not only ensured the proportionality of representation as it has not harmed the country's governance, on the contrary. In fact, the idea that governance is achieved at the expense of absolute majority is wrong. That's not true. Life has also shown that this is not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u13	If we have a problem today, which Mr Rodrigues has said, which is a real problem, that there is a disproportion between national territory and representation, the problem again is not the electoral system! [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u14	The problem is regional asymmetries, and this has to do with the desertification of the interior. It is not the amendment of the electoral system that will solve this problem, which is, in fact, deeper. A number of electoral engineering mechanisms may be proposed that this does not solve the fundamental problem. The problem of the discontent of voters, of abstention, has nothing to do with the fact that terms of uninominal or plurinominal circles, or large circles or small circles. It has to do with other causes, and it is not the electoral system that solves this. In fact, countries that have systems different from ours or even similar to that system that petitioners have come to propose also do not have levels of electoral participation above ours. Therefore, it is not by changing the Election Law of the Assembly of the Republic that, by magical arts, voters would feel more mobilized or less mobilized to vote. The reason is, in fact, another. It is our conviction that we do not have a problem with the electoral system in Portugal. In fact, it is enough to see that this House of the Republic has a plural representation. The fact that we have a proportional representation system means that there is a greater representation of the Portuguese society as a whole in the Assembly of the Republic, which would obviously not happen if we adopted a majority system or even if we adopted the system proposed by the petitioners, because this system that would propose to us, a supposed proportional representation, could lead to a kind of virulentism and fulanization in the election of the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u16	...that at nothing would contribute to the health of democracy. [[Greetings from the PCP and P.S. Member of the Simões Lift.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u17	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition today under discussion allows us to discuss the issue of the Portuguese electoral system. The petitioners propose that there be an evolution of a proportional representation system of closed lists for a custom proportional representation system with uninominal circles. The NAP cannot fail to welcome the civic commitment of these citizens in the search for solutions that they consider to bring greater quality to our democracy. However, we are directly opposed to the solutions proposed by the petitioners, who are no longer the practical realization of an old dream of the 'central' in Portugal, sometimes hidden for reasons of political convenience. In the view of the NAP, the electoral system defended by the petitioners distorts election results, encouraging a negative logic of party bipolarization due to the weakening of the representation of small parties. It also stimulates the biased fragmentation, with the danger of several « Limian cheese-deputies » in the Portuguese version, or « balla-deputies», or « liblia-deputies» or « boi-deputies » in the Brazilian version, which could bring risks to the transparent exercise of the mandate and question the governance of our country. However, the NAP is not in the ranks of the parties who, pretending to be all right with our political system, opt for the easy way of the sacralization of the Constitution and the electoral system. For us - and we have made it clear in our electoral programme - three major structural changes are needed at the level of the electoral system. On the one hand, we advocate the need for the revision of the Election Law to the Assembly of the Republic, in order to concentrate the reduction of the number of electoral circles from 22 to 9, and to exist the electoral circles of the North, the Centre, the Alentejo, the Algarve, the Metropolitan Area of the Port, the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the Azores, Madeira and Emigration. This proposal is based on the fact that, at each legislative election, about half a million valid votes do not result in the election of any Member of the European Parliament, so as to make a significant contribution to reducing this waste of votes. On the other hand, as stated in our electoral programme, we will start a constitutional review process with two objectives at the level of the electoral system: the first aims to guarantee the right to vote to citizens older than 16 years, so that we will walk for a more participatory and inclusive democracy; the second aims to ensure the replacement of the Hondt method in the previous distribution of mandates by circle, in order to favour smaller circles, which often correspond to vast territories, but with lower population density. Finally, regretting that, due to obsolete legal constraints, petitioners could not submit to the Assembly of the Republic, as they wished, a citizen legislative initiative to change the electoral system. on this occasion, the NAP reaffirms its electoral commitment to modify the legal regime of the citizens' legislative initiative in order to extend the issues that may be the subject of this participatory democracy instrument, so that in the future citizens who want it and who meet the legal requirements can propose a change of the electoral system. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u19	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners. This citizenship movement has already had the possibility of creating several debates prior to this debate in Parliament, in which the Left Block has participated, so the opinion I will give is not new to the petitioners, but it is important for a debate that exists in the country. And we also have a benefit on this matter. As far as the electoral system is concerned, the petitioners are based on a diagnosis that we consider to be wrong. In fact, Mr President of the Republic yesterday at the reception of Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, in the fulfilment of the votes of Good Parties — and I believe it is valid — said there is no distortion in our electoral system. And compared with other countries at European level, this system has tried to integrate the various views and sensitivities that exist in the country. The proof of this dynamism and its ability to integrate are the numerous parties that have appeared, who have gained parliamentary space and have eventually disappeared over the 40 years of democracy. Therefore, from this point of view, our electoral system has merits that cannot be denied and compares very well with other electoral systems, such as the German system, which is the alpha and omega of the model presented by the petitioners. The German model has a minimum limit that needs to be transposed for parliamentary representation. Now our system does not provide for a minimum clause of access to Parliament, but there must be a vote to elect a Member. There is a consequence here, then: our system is the most democratic electoral system. Our system is more respectful of electoral programmes because, unlike the German system, one mandate for a person who does not know exactly what programme he may have, we have lists that go to elections with clear and unequivocal programmes. Therefore, more than a beauty contest, we have ideas that are going to debate, and this is paramount in a clear debate, in a deep debate and in the democratic debate on who has the best ideas and not on who has the best budget for advertising or who has the best way out of the media, because that is what distorts parliamentary representation. That is why, even though we consider there to be reasons for improvements in our electoral system — and we have already announced some aspects — we tell the petitioners very directly that it does not seem to us that the way they presented should be followed. So, on the left side of the Block, we now say what we have already said. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u21	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to say that what we think is most positive on this initiative is that it seeks to respond to a problem that actually exists, which is not only Portuguese, but is of all European and even global electoral systems, and that concerns a certain crisis of representation which has been referred to and instituted in the various democracies. Having said this, we are going to have a second question, which is whether what is now proposed and presented as the universal panacea for this problem solves it or not, and there are, in fact, many doubts. We would even like to point out that, a little contrary to what has already been said today, this idea is not new, nor here in Parliament, nor even in the governance of the country. I remember that this idea was first proposed and defended by a Government of the Socialist Party, particularly at the time, through then Minister Antonio Costa and Minister Alberto Martins, who defended the introduction into Portugal of the uninominal circles. It is true that the idea has not come back, that the Socialist Party has dropped it in the meantime and that other proposals have appeared in this direction. I repeat, we have many doubts about this solution. In short, the CDS will define its orientation in the reform of the electoral system and the political system, but it maintains its position of having many doubts. From then on, effectively, as has been said, and well, these kinds of solutions have, directly or even indirectly, a bipolar effect on Portuguese political life. Why? Why, when we introduce uninominal circles, what happens? It happens that, in some circles, by the normal composition of Parliament, only a few parties elect such close Members. In other words, we start to have parties with close Members and parties who do not have the right to these fellow Members and who only enter through the clearing circle. This creates a difference from the outset which, from our point of view, is not reasonable, because what we want is that all political forces are treated in the same way. In fact, recently we have made serious mistakes in this matter. On the other hand, this obviously stimulates what Mr António Filipe, if I am not mistaken, has called « venetism», but in some cases we could in fact call even « autarchization» of the electoral circles for Parliament or even some form of encouragement to caciquism. So this is also a possible defect of this system and it is something that raises doubts. Finally, I stress that it will be relatively easy to conclude that who seems to be defending this system and who has the most reservations or is more critical to be located at the centre, or even at the centre. That is where we will find the greatest enthusiasm for these kinds of solutions, because they would effectively stimulate a larger centre and a smaller representation of the various political forces, which our system has allowed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u23	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u24	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. In fact, it is true that our system has allowed the majority of a party, the majority of a coalition and the birth of new political forces. So maybe this isn't the biggest problem. There is a change, that is to value the interior, to group circles inside, allowing greater representation of the interior. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u25	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I began by welcoming the initiative of the APDQ (Association for a Quality Democracy) and the SEDES (Association for Economic and Social Development ), in particular its promoters, José Ribeiro and Castro and João Duque, who promoted a fairly broad national debate, a detailed reflection, studied and discussed with the academy and with civil society, a good example of citizen participation in parliamentary work. This is a petition which, as has already been mentioned, has not been admitted in the form of a citizen's legislative initiative, which must be reviewed and reponderated, insofar as many of the restrictions which citizens can propose on the basis of a popular legislative initiative, which the Socialist Party has a willingness to review. In fact, the system proposed by the petitioners, as has already been mentioned, is very close to the one who has been suffocated, proposed and supported by the Socialist Party at various times. In the XIII Constitutional Government, a bill was submitted to the Assembly of the Republic, precisely seeking to translate a similar model inspired by the German model in order to achieve the three objectives that an electoral system must try to achieve: proportionality in the conversion of votes to mandates, to ensure pluralism; governance, i.e. capacity for the formation of governmental solutions; and, in particular, improving the proximity of the relationship between the elector and the elector, which is perhaps the three axes, the one most lacking intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u28	in this context, the German model has not been what was stated in the interventions that preceded mine. In fact, this is a model which, contrary to what is being said, has reduced bipolarization, with more parties represented in the German Parliament. Secondly, it is a model in which territorial representation has been assured to all states, therefore there has not been a problem of territorial representation. It is also a model in which applications are party, and there is no doubt about the risk of customization without an electoral programme. However, as has also been said, this reform needs two-thirds of Members to be approved. And, Mr. Pedro Rodrigues, I would not say that it is regrettable what I said about the Socialist Party. Or rather, it is regrettable, yes, what I said about the Socialist Party, but it is not regrettable the attitude of the Socialist Party, because he forgets a detail that makes all the difference: in the whole debate on the electoral system, the PSD has put as a sine qua condition the reduction in the number of Members to 180, a matter in which there is a smell of populism that does not cease to leave the Chamber, but whose main problem is the devastating impact that would have on the application of any electoral system. It was the electoral system that we currently have, that is the model of a double vote electoral system — which is the proposal in the petition — that would result in a decrease in parliamentary pluralism, a decrease in the capacity of representation of the inner circles and a decrease in the capacity of the smaller political formations to have parliamentary seats. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today we would not have an Assembly of the Republic with 10 parties represented and 7 parliamentary groups if perhaps the option that the PSD always put as a condition, which was the reduction of the number of Members, was on the table. Mr Rodrigues no longer has time to answer, but I am returning to him the same question, because we will have other occasions to discuss the matter: is the PSD available to abdicate the reduction of the number of Members as a sine qua condition so that one can think of an electoral system that does not penalise small parties and the interior?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u29	Oh! They want to wake up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u30	If it is, the Socialist Party will be consistent, as it has always been, with an electoral programme and with a proposal that has always been the same, as it has well mentioned, since 1995. To conclude, I would say that it is also important to take into account that there are elements that can be improved without a thorough review of the electoral system, to give some timely answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u31	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u32	I shall conclude, Mr President. The PS is available to debate issues such as the size of the circles, the quality of how it is voted on — many early voting experiences have done well — the need to review the maximum number of voters per voting section so that people do not have to wait in line and to improve the quality of the intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u33	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u34	... and even the conversion of votes by the Hondt method, which, contrary to what the NAP said, may not lack a constitutional review, but only a change of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u35	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I should like to thank the petitioners who are present in the galleries and all the parliamentary groups that have intervened. We will move on to the third point of the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 567 / XIII / 4. a (António Mateus Simão da Conceição Ferreira de Carvalho et al.) — They request the adoption of measures to prohibit the herbicide glyphosate in Portugal, together with, in general, the Bills Nos 77 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the obligation to carry out monthly analysis of water intended for human consumption in order to verify the presence of glyphosate, 78 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Visa for non-marketing herbicides with glyphosate for non-professional uses, 81 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the obligation of analysis to the presence of glyphosate in water intended for human consumption ( third amendment to the Water Quality Scheme for Human consumption approved by Decree-Law No 306 / 2007 of 27 August ), 82 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and communication routes ( second amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April) and 83 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the non-professional use of products containing glyphosate ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 101/2009 of 11 May 2009 and third amendment to Decree-Law No 173/2005 of 21 October 2005) and with Draft Resolution No 21 / XIV/1. a (PEV) — Measures to eradicate the use of glyphosate. For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting about 16,000 petitioners, thanking them for bringing this important issue to debate in Parliament. In Portugal, there has been a growing trend in the use of glyphosate in recent years to control herbaceous crops, whether in agricultural activity, by the authorities, in urban areas, or in private gardens and farms. Portugal is the third country in Europe with the most glyphosate-contaminated soils. In 2015, glyphosate was considered by the World Health Organization and the International Agency for Cancer Research as likely carcinogenic to human beings, and this classification was later corroborated by the United Nations and the Portuguese Medical Order. Based on this classification are hundreds of independent research articles, done either with the complete formulation of herbicides or with glyphosate alone on laboratory animals and even on human cell lines. Among the aforementioned hundreds of articles, there are many who demonstrate the existence of a correlation between this type of herbicide and various pathologies, such as non-Hodgkin lymphoma, endocrine system disorders, digestive system disorders, urinary system disorders, among others, and teratogenesis and mutagenesis. Despite the continuous use of the argument that the causal link between glyphosate and non-Hodgkin lymphoma cannot be proven, the fact is that in the United States, Bayer faces more than 13,400 judicial processes in relation to the risk of cancer caused by glyphosate, having already been sentenced for three times. More: recently, in May 2019, the jury of the appeal court of San Francisco determined that glyphosate was responsible for the development of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in two people. Glyphosate has already been detected in routine analysis, food, water in the rivers, urine, blood and even breast milk. With the sense of understanding how Portuguese people are exposed to glyphosate, since 2016 the non-governmental association Transgenic Platform Fora has been testing its presence in several volunteers, verifying that the mean value of samples was three times higher than the legal limit in water for human consumption. In Portugal, it is up to DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ) to establish the list of pesticides and to do research in water intended for human consumption, and for the period 2019 to 2021, the recommendation of their research is determined at least once a year in waters intended for human consumption. Now, we believe that an annual water analysis is not enough to investigate people's exposure to glyphosate. On the basis of the precautionary principle, the public interest is the knowledge about exposure to toxic substances that people may be subject to and because our proposal does not result in increased costs, we are defending today, through a draft law, that the waters intended for human consumption, from surface water collection, are analysed monthly by the entities responsible for the production and exploitation of the water supply system to verify the presence of glyphosate. In addition, because health should be our first priority, and before all scientific evidence, we propose, in another bill, the limitation of access of non-professional and non-specialized users to herbicides based on glyphosate, prohibiting their sale for non-professional uses. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u37	You have the floor to present the three Bills of the Left Block, Mr. Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 16 000 petitioners who brought to this House their concern about glyphosate, asking for measures to be banned. In fact, glyphosate is a herbicide that was probably considered cancerous to humans by the World Health Organization. Their relationship with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a form of cancer that in Portugal has more than 1700 new cases per year, has been proven. That is why it is important to look at this matter. We also know that glyphosate is the most sold herbicide in the country and in the world. It is a herbicide widely used in agriculture, but also in our streets, in our plains, in the walks, in the squares, where we spend every day of our life. That's why it's so omnipresent in our social life. Glyphosate is found in our drinks — in milk, in water, in beer — in all our food, even in cotton of our clothes and feminine toiletries, being a risk to public health. The Left Block was the first party to bring the issue of glyphosate to this Parliament. So today we are presenting three proposals for three problems. Glyphosate is widely used in public space. Well, we propose that glyphosate be banned from public space. It is not possible for us to have glyphosate on all our streets and on all our walks. Since the first proposal of the Left Block, there have already been very positive developments. Since then, several authorities have abandoned the use of glyphosate. So, yes, it is possible to have public spaces free of glyphosate, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Also, the government has made a legislative step forward by banning all and any pesticides in children's gardens, urban gardens, capsist parks, schools and hospitals. We know that exposure on these sites is an acceptable risk, so today we must define that it is an acceptable risk not only within the school, but also an acceptable risk that on the trip, beyond the school gate, students are exposed to glyphosate, as in many other public places. This is our proposal: public spaces without glyphosate. It is the logical consequence of the precautionary principle and the principle of integrated protection. But we have two more proposals. Today, any citizen can go to a store and buy glyphosate. Something that is cancer can be bought by a citizen without experience, without protective equipment, without any knowledge of the risks that run. It is therefore essential to prohibit the sale of glyphosate to any untrained citizen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u39	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u40	We want to prohibit the sale of glyphosate to the non-professional public and only those who have training to apply fitofarms can buy it. One last proposal we make is that mandatory analysis be made to the presence of glyphosate in tap water. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u41	To present draft resolution No 21 / XIV / 1. the, has the floor by the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Silva. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Greens, I welcome the thousands of petitioners who have subscribed to this petition and who are fighting for the right to health and quality of life. As we know, the World Health Organization, through the International Agency for Cancer Research, came to associate glyphosate with cancer potential in 2015. A dangerous effect of glyphosate on human health has been declared, establishing a relationship between this herbicide and blood cancer. In Portugal, around 1700 new cases of this type of cancer arise each year, with a mortality rate higher than the European Union average – to highlight that glyphosate is the most used herbicide in Portugal. Glyphosate also presents a close connection to genetically modified organisms (GMOs) insofar as they are resistant to the herbicide concerned. The Greens put the issue on the agenda of the Assembly of the Republic since 2015, with a set of debates and initiatives, considering, from the results that they claim that glyphosate can have an effect on health, that the next step is to take measures that safeguard public health and the environment, under the precautionary principle. The PSD/CDS Government has expressed no concern about this issue. In the past legislature, it was several times that The Greens brought the issue to plenary. Although there is a diploma that prohibits the use of glyphosate in very specific spaces, such as children's spaces, nearby gardens and urban parks, campgrounds, health care sites, among others, we consider that a relevant step has been taken towards the prohibition proposed by the ENP, but we think it is possible to go further. However, there are other locations and situations where there is evidence that there are no other means and techniques of control to address a phytosanitary hazard that poses a risk to the forest, to agriculture or to natural environments. The Greens are still committed to this issue and the draft resolution we are presenting today is aimed at promoting further clarification, in particular to farmers and authorities, on the results relating to the effects of glyphosate on human health: to create forms of incentive and support, fundamental to small and medium-sized farmers in the transition phase for the use of other alternative Glyphosate-free means; and finally to develop challenges that might enhance the non-use of Glyphosate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u43	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr João Gomes Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the few days of the New Year and before the new Parliament, we are today discussing recurring issues in this House. One of them is the prohibition of the use of a systemic herbicide, glyphosate, by non-professionals, by urban means. It is a topic that has been addressed in various forums, national and international, having established in 2017 the prohibition of the use of this herbicide and others in urban centers. In fact, the former Government has made a rigorous and demanding amendment to the regulations on the use of plant protection products and has established new requirements for its use in urban areas. Thus, phytosanitary treatments with the use of plant protection products have not been permitted, particularly in children's gardens, nearby gardens and urban parks, campgrounds, hospitals and other health care facilities, as well as in residential structures for the elderly and educational establishments, except those dedicated to training in Agricultural Sciences. This is the wording of Decree-Law No 35 / 2017 of 24 March. Therefore, the prohibition proposed by the NAP and the Left Block may seem unnecessary and redundant, but it is not. And it is not because these parties aim, more than to protect public health and ensure good practice in the use of chemicals, maintain an ideological battle against a single fitofarm and against the companies that manufacture it. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD cannot follow this type of motivation. [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's protests.]] Our motivation is, and will always be, the public service, the guarantee of adequate conditions in terms of public health, for citizens, whether they live in urban or rural areas. Despite the existing ban, it is in this sense considered that the technical services of the Public Administration have the capacity, at all levels, to possibly allow some exceptionality in terms of the use of phytofarms such as, for example, in the channels of communication and after this scourge that have been, and are, forest fires. We prefer this approach of confidence of technicians to the absolute, simple ban, presented by the proposing parties. [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's protests.]] More: one of these proposals also aims to ensure that state services prepare a report assessing the effects of glyphosate on human health in order to re-examine the classification of its hazard. Now, this clearly demonstrates that its objective has only to do with glyphosate, ignoring possible hazards of other phytophostics. This proposal therefore only aims to demonstrate the danger of this chemical as being naturally dangerous or not. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards draft laws that seek to make the list of pesticides to be controlled by the management bodies under the water quality control programme ( PCQA ), the screening of glyphosate appears to be the same, i.e. the fixing by one product rather than by a set of fitofarms. Mr President — I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u45	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, and despite the doubt about the intentions of the bills, of course, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and, above all, to enhance public intervention. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President — For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would like to greet and greet the subscribers of this petition and also the political parties that present initiatives in this debate. This is not the first time that this issue is the subject of discussion, but this time there is no novelty in the proposals that are presented to us. In fact, they are more or less perfect copies of others that this House has already appreciated and voted. [[BE's protests.]] There are no new facts! Mrs. Members, on their own, environmental awareness and concern cannot keep us from what is the state of art, consolidated scientific knowledge, surveillance and care that exists in relation to it or any other substance used in herbicide and related formulations. We therefore believe that it is a good opportunity to remember and underline what has been done in Portugal about this matter. It was the PS government that promptly banned the marketing of herbicides containing taloamine, following a study by EFSA (European Food Safety Authority), which revealed carcinogenic properties of this substance. Portugal has been of the first European countries to ban the use of glyphosate in various public areas since March 2017 where hospitals, homes of elderly people, health centres, schools and kindergartens score. Portugal was a pioneer at European level with regard to the imposition of rules on the purchase, handling and application of such products.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u48	In Portugal, none of the analyses carried out for human consumption carried out by official entities were detected glyphosate which questions water quality parameters for public purposes. The Government is implementing a number of measures aimed at reducing and eliminating pesticides. There is also an increasing number of municipalities, municipal chambers and parish councils that have abandoned the use of glyphosate. In Europe, and in the last five years more than 80 active substances have been rejected, following exactly the same risk analysis protocol that was applied to glyphosate. in this matter, and when justified, European bodies do not hesitate and act upon the precautionary principle. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is therefore in this matrix of multiple variables that our political evaluation must be carried out, without prejudice and free of any particular condition. in the meantime, while science does not present final answers, what we must demand is the deepening of mechanisms that guarantee our biosecurity, which strengthen our confidence in institutions that accompany and care for our food and environmental security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u50	... never losing sight of the greatest objective, which is the protection of the health of populations and raising their degree of protection in relation to potentially carcinogenic agents.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u52	It's just that, my dear, there are no harmless substances! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u53	For the CFP Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2016, the CFP recommended to the Government measures to improve the control of fitofarms and proposed, as approved, the establishment of a multidisciplinary committee to move forward in this area. at that time, the renewal of glyphosate license in the European Union was discussed for another 10 years. At the same time, the CFP made itself clear in the European Parliament. Both then and now, the available scientific data raise doubts and concerns as to the impacts of herbicide glyphosate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u56	We therefore considered it unacceptable to renew the authorisation for 10 years without more and we were always available to support a phased out period, with adaptation measures and other better solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u58	in this matter, in which the precautionary principle is at stake, in which we should pay attention to scientific evidence, in which we need to find the best solutions, it was always clear that by the CFP it would be so. It was and is necessary to investigate without being dependent on the agrochemical industry or on the agendas of the European Union, such as replacing glyphosate or any other chemical which, regardless of studies on the probably carcinogenic character or not, are aggressive and elements of imbalance in ecosystems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u59	Exactly! The Seixal City Hall has succeeded!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u60	The path is sustainable and non-intensive agriculture. We are always opposed to the introduction of genetically modified organisms, in particular by means of trade agreements which the European Union is making, to the detriment of public health and the development of the Member States. These liberalised market rules make it difficult for us to adopt agricultural policies that reduce the food deficit and better pay for small producers, while at the same time more sustainable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u61	Several pesticides, including glyphosate, vary their effects according to the forms and dosages used. The World Health Organization considered that glyphosate is composed of substances "probably carcinogenic to human beings". The European Food Safety Authority says that the carcinogenic potential results from the coformulant taloamine, present in certain products such as glyphosate, and therefore the sale of products with this compound has already been prohibited. However, glyphosate has ceased to be patented, making it more accessible, but at the same time not so profitable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u62	Very well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u63	And there is the underlying problem: in the capitalist model, agribusiness aims to make the most of the profits, so productive capacities are taken to the extreme, with heavy use of phytofarms. at the same time, the agrochemical business tries to create products that kill everything but plants genetically modified by the company that sells them, as already happens with corn. This controls the entire production process and thus it is seen how the concentration of power in multinationals is harmful to peoples and the planet. The fact is that, here, the proposed prohibition of glyphosate leaves producers without viable alternatives to control pests and weeds and there is no practical solution at this time for public spaces that can be adopted overnight.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u64	The Chamber of Seixal has succeeded!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u65	As it appears to banish glyphosate without introducing a new product, not studied, but whose patent is not yet expired and much income, we are at risk of doing worse than better. The precautionary principle must always be used, not only to allow but also when it comes to prohibiting and opening new possibilities. We therefore follow the ENP initiative, which aims at deterring the use, precautions and ensuring better solutions. We believe that the State should continue to monitor the application of products. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u66	We will move on to the next point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 513 / XIII / 3. a ( Pedro Choy de Amélia Cordeiro et al.) — Equality in the professional exercise of non-conventional therapists. You have the floor to open the debate, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to welcome the almost 13,000 petitioners who have signed this petition for equality in the professional exercise of non-conventional therapists and for bringing the issue to this House for discussion. This petition addresses the situation of NCT professionals (non-conventional therapies) formed after October 2013, who, due to delays in the regulation of these therapies, were unable to apply for professional ballots, a problem that was resolved in the past legislature in a process that included the contribution of the NAP. However, the TNC regulatory procedure is already too long. This started with Law No. 45 / 2003, which established the framework of the activity and exercise of professionals applying non-conventional therapies as defined by the World Health Organization ( WHO ), which, containing a 180-day deadline for regulation, only came to be regulated 10 years later through Law No. 71 / 2013. In addition, the scopes relating to the regulation of the same law have been published to accounts and, after 16 years since the beginning of this process, there are still two. We would also like to point out that, in the past legislature, a draft NAP resolution was approved which recommended the Government to develop the procedures necessary for the creation of a specific code of economic activity ( CAE ) for NCTs. This is because even though the VAT exemption (value added tax) has been granted to these professionals, we believe that the existence of differentiated economic activity codes, marked by the duality of criteria at the time of registration with the Finances, continues to contribute to differentiated tax treatment, in addition to it being illogical that professionals who practice the same activity are associated with a different EAC. Despite the need to standardise the regime, so far the government has done nothing about it. The regulatory deadlines were short and have already been largely exceeded. We talk about health, assuming this particular regulation is relevant to the protection of people who use non-conventional therapies. For this reason, what is required is only that the government quickly conclude the process of regulating these therapies, ensuring full right and access to health and the exercise of the profession. [[PAN's applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u68	I now give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to congratulate, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic and who request this discussion on equality in access to ballots which, in turn, give access to the professional exercise of non-conventional therapists in the various areas of non-conventional therapies which are recognized and regulated by law. In fact, what the petitioners say in their petition to the Assembly of the Republic makes every sense. There was an injustice that, finally, was not acceptable, because the law of 2013 said that who, until the entry into force of the law, would perform functions as a non-conventional therapist could require the license to continue exercising them legally. He also said that after 2013 only those who were able to graduate in these areas could exercise the same profession. But what the law did not foresee was a solution for those who were in the middle of these two solutions. Until the regulations, until the beginning of the activity of the various undergraduates, there were many hundreds, if not thousands, of students who effectively took courses in recognized schools that were in a vacuum. They took courses with thousands of hours of training, four-, five-, six-year courses, but could not have access to the diploma and, therefore, they were also prevented from exercising their professional activity in complete discrimination with both pre-2013, as well as with those who, after the graduation activity, could exercise their profession. This petition effectively made sense when it entered, but at this moment, and fortunately, the situation is resolved. It was resolved in the past legislature: a draft law of the Left Block was presented, there was a special debate where it was possible to reach a common text and there is now a law in force that allows, by the end of 2025, to be able to access these ballot papers again and to the legal exercise of professions. What is now necessary is that the Government also do what the Left Block has done, i.e. that it presents solutions and solves a key problem identified, that finally ends the regulation of this area and that it publishes the portary on vocational schools and its transition to higher education so that this problem we have encountered in the past legislature will not be put again on the table here four, five or six years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u70	Mr Sandra Pereira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the approximately 13,000 subscribers to this petition, who addressed the Assembly of the Republic for the right to equality in the professional exercise of non-conventional therapies. The petitioners intend to give equal chances of obtaining professional diplomas with at least legal training and call attention to delays in both their situation and the situation of the schools that form them. They protest the situation of inequality in which trained professionals are present before and after October 2013 as to the possibility of applying to obtain the professional certificate. And I cannot fail to mention, in this regard, that the Social Democratic Party has always recognized the relevance of non-conventional therapies. Thus, in particular with Law No 45 / 2003 and 10 years later, with Law No 71 / 2013, both approved when the PSD exercised responsibilities in the Government. We've been looking for you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, create conditions that would allow an appropriate and demanding professional exercise, as well as establish systems for qualification and accreditation of professionals of non-conventional therapies. It is unfortunate that when the Socialist Party is in little or nothing is done to respond to the legitimate aspirations of these professionals and, above all, to ensure the indispensable guarantee of the rights of citizens who resort to non-conventional therapies. The PSD therefore believes that the Government must legislate in order to eradicate any discrimination between professionals with the same training and training, which is happening, and beyond equality in access to the profession, to defend and safeguard public health. The inaction of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it seriously harms professionals from non-conventional therapies. I remember that only the subscribers of this petition are about 13 000, but also associated with them there are all citizens who seek greater and better health. It is, of course, expected that the government will finally do what is required of it: to govern the good of the general interest, in the case of professionals in particular, and, above all, of those who resort to it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u72	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Rui Cruz, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate Mr. Pedro Choy, present in the galleries, the first petitioner of this petition who entered the Assembly of the Republic in June 2018, as well as all those accompanying him and the approximately 13,000 who signed it. The petitioners are asking the Assembly of the Republic to ensure equality in the professional exercise of non-conventional therapists. They intend to give equal chances of obtaining a professional certificate to people with at least equal training, adding that the delays in regulating their situation and the schools that form them are the responsibility of successive governments and not these professionals. To try to mitigate this situation, two legislative initiatives were presented in the previous legislature, one of the NAPs and one of the Left Block. Following these two initiatives, the Committee on Labour and Social Security set up the Working Group on Non-Conventional Therapy and promoted a set of hearings, where the petitioners of this petition and many other entities representing the sector were included. In the discussion in the specialty, the Socialist Party presented a set of amendments to Law No 71 / 2013, which obtained the favorable vote of the Left Block, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP and, curiously, contrary to what the PSD said, the abstention of the PSD and the CDS. These proposals, which deserve wide approval, resulted in the amendment to Article 19. that of Law No 71 / 2013 and that it is important to highlight. This is what has been solved by the problem referred to in this petition, in particular the amendment of paragraphs 3 and 10 of that same article, which has now been drafted : « 3 - They may still request their professional certificate from ACCS until 31 December 2025, those who, having completed their training in institutions not covered by the higher education system or in institutions of higher education not conferring a higher degree after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September, shall do so until the first degree of leave is awarded in each of the regulated non-conventional therapies ». Paragraph 10, the other point that was causing disturbance to non-conventional therapists, is replaced by the following : « For the purposes of Article 5 ( 1 ). the, training institutions/lesser education institutions which, at the date of the entry into force of this law, are legally constituted and promote training/education in the field of non-conventional therapies legally recognized, have a period not exceeding five years for the purpose of adapting to the legal regime of higher education institutions, in accordance with the rules to be regulated by the Government in special legislation. Do not keep on seeking. ” Thus, PS has achieved a legislative solution to meet the interests of these professionals, contributing to the stabilization of the activity of professionals of non-conventional therapies, ensuring equal opportunity in access to the profession. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We also want to begin our intervention by complimenting the petitioners who have brought this concern to the Assembly of the Republic on access to professional ballot papers and who claim that there is indeed equality in this access to those who perform functions in the field of non-conventional therapies. This process of regulation of non-conventional therapies in our country is already long and has witnessed various vicissitudes and delays. It should be said that the delays over the years are the responsibility of several governments that have not been regulating the laws which, however, were being passed, not being, of course, imputable to the professionals themselves, which should not be penalised for this reason, as they themselves refer, even to the text of the petition. Since 2003, the year of the adoption of the law on the basis of non-conventional therapies has passed by 16 years and the truth is that this process is not yet completed. It is also true that one part, I would say, perhaps, the substantial part of this petition that we are discussing today, refers to a problem which, however, has already been the subject of legislative amendments, being extended the time frame for the possibility of requesting the professional certificate from the ACSS (Central Health System Administration), thus extending this transitional period. I believe that this amendment was important and it was possible in the context of the debate in the Assembly of the Republic to find a solution that would allow, given the delays in the regulation and that they persist, that there was indeed a space for professionals themselves not to be penalized or prevented from exercising. We have followed the situation with regard to therapists and non-conventional therapies, we have intervened and agreed that there is regulation to protect citizens, so as to safeguard public health and also to protect professionals themselves, thus ensuring safety and quality in the care provided to users. It is always in this sense that we have intervened, because I believe it is beneficial for all, for users and professionals themselves, in particular from the point of view of qualification, and there is also recognition and regulation of their own profession. This is something that we will continue to follow, but in order to complete this intervention, we want to point out that, indeed, this is a process that is long and deserves to be completed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u76	As there are no more entries for this point, we will move on to the following, which is from the joint assessment of Petition No 592 / XIII / 4. a ( Susana Maria de Oliveira Santos et al.) — They request the creation of legislation for places to host farm animals and wild animals, known as sanctuaries or shelters of animal life, of Bill No. 90 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — It foresees the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to its protection and 96 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the network of centres for the reception and rehabilitation of wild and exotic animals and of Resolution Projects Nos 74 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishment of places for the care of wild animals and fifth-year animals and their legal framework and 82 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a legal framework for breeding sites for farm animals and wild animals. We will start this debate and, in order to present the NAP initiatives, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the group of citizens who brought this important issue to Parliament and I congratulate them for the work they have done. The NAP accompanies your concerns and as such it presented two initiatives: the first allows the functional ability of equidae to contemplate the possibility of these being registered as pets, which currently does not happen, i.e. even those families that have a horse exclusively to keep them company necessarily have to register for a purpose that does not correspond to reality, that is, as animal for livestock purposes, for example. This distortion of reality makes no sense, just as it makes no sense that these animals, being detained for company, are excluded from the protection conferred by the law of criminalization of ill-treatment of animals. The second initiative concerns a loophole in the law that prevents the creation of shelters for animals said to be farmed to whom it wishes to do so. Despite the various demands of the NAP in this area, the Government continues to have no suitable accommodation for these animals. In case of flagrant failure in relation to the welfare of animals, they are repeatedly kept on site with exactly the same conditions that led to their seizure. See the recent case in Ferreira do Alentejo, in which, in the face of serious ill-treatment of about 100 horses, the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, without immediate housing solutions for these animals, admitted their maintenance on site. About 50 of these horses starved or disappeared without trace. These situations are unacceptable and mirror a total lack of respect and empathy for animal life. I would like to say that this is an unusual situation, but it is not; examples such as this multiply throughout the country. The frustration increases because, contrary to what happens to pet animals, if, fortunately, there are zoophilic associations that have been replacing the State for years, in the case of livestock, the State does not or does not let it do, always reserving the slaughter to these animals. In fact, there is no full legal protection for farm animals and wild animals, since they are excluded from the application of the law of ill-treatment to animals. Therefore, there are still no mechanisms to prevent and combat ill-treatment and abandonment in respect of these animals. In view of this situation, it is urgent to create a specific legal framework, based on the assumptions of the creation and maintenance of breeding sites for farm animals and wild animals, the so-called sanctuaries or animal life shelters. Currently, in order to create a sanctuary of farm animals, registration as farm animals is mandatory, which makes no sense to the extent that it is not the objective of this reception. to the above mentioned add the fact that wild animals are several times victims of illegal trafficking, illicit purchase, ill-treatment or neglect, and there are only recovery centres for indigenous wildlife, having no specific place to house alien or irrecoverable native species, a situation that can be aggravated by the prohibition of wild animals in the circus, and also the accommodation for these animals is necessary. In view of the above, we consider it essential to create a legal framework for breeding sites for farm animals and wild animals, which should be able to be exploited by both public entities and animal protection associations. Maintaining the current situation ends up a profound injustice and total deresponsibility for the lives of animals that are created and used by humans. We now have the opportunity to change the situation of thousands of animals in our country and we hope that the other parties will accompany this concern. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u78	To present the PCP diploma, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners. We share the view that there is a lack of a public structure for the reception and rehabilitation of wild and exotic animals, either that need for the recovery of animals kept in captivity on the edge of the law or traffic target, or the result of accidents, injuries or diseases. An important step was taken for the dignity of these animals under Law No. 20 / 2019, which strengthens the protection of animals used in circuses and also created the Volunteer Delivery Program of Wild Animals. The various interests concerned were cautioned to ensure that the law was balanced, walking towards the end of the use of these animals in circuses, but this at the same time made visible a fragility, which we aim to overcome with this proposal: where do these animals go after being seized or given voluntarily? Today, there is no public solution for reception and rehabilitation aimed at wild animals and this has made them, after being seized or given voluntarily, remain with those who have created the irregular situation, or the former owner, as a faithful depositary, or even to be delivered to zoos and used for commercial purposes. In addition to this void, we have a cross-cutting issue that significantly affects the protection of these animals as well as other animals, including the equidae of which this petition also speaks: the degradation and emptying of public services, in particular the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests) and the DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary), together with the inability to respond throughout the territory to permanent supervision by the competent police authorities, cause many irregularities and even illegal acts to occur. We believe that these animals should be returned to their habitat as soon as possible, in the case of animals that, due to the conditions in which they were, require recovery and rehabilitation. Our proposal also states that these centres can protocol with other national centres, or not, with scientific research institutions, universities, polytechnics, associated laboratories and state laboratories to establish scientific and pedagogical partnerships, provided that these protocols do not involve experimentation in animals or commercial exploitation. It is true, and that is why we are presenting this bill, which requires a network of facilities to collect, treat and provide shelter for animals who, during inspection and monitoring actions, need relocation and reception. We understand that this solution cannot simply be extended to animals said to be farmed or used in economic, agricultural, synergistic and other activities which, under current conditions, in a context of lack of awareness, prevention, control, capacity for action, will simply result in an abusive application and which is shocking to the reality of our country, our people and the relationship that exists with animals. The changes, if they are for the best, are not made against people, especially with the rural world, and we fear that behind good intentions if you are imposing a vision on the human/animal relationship, disconnected from reality. Rights exist only if there are effective, material and human conditions for their realization. This also extends to animal welfare. That is why we also insist that the path is not made on paper or on simple criminalization. That is what this proposal wants to make, i.e., taking from the role of life a concrete measure. As it is certain that what is in force today has not been accompanied by the practical and regulatory changes necessary to ensure its effectiveness, the CFP advances with this bill which, being approved, is distinguished, because it implies an effective establishment of a network of centres for the reception and rehabilitation of wild and exotic animals equipped with space, material and workers for this specific intervention. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u80	To present the diploma of BE, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by thanking the subscribers who bring us this petition and with it the expression of reality, and I also want to thank the associations who want effective protection of wild and farm animals. The legislation advances with recognition of the need for regularity and reality, which we seek to exist in legislation, but also, in this particular fact, with much participation. of our part, we have worked on essential changes in the protection of exotic and wild animals, from the outset because the trafficking of exotic animals is not allowed and because we have legislation that calls for the voluntary delivery of wild animals from circuses, reached in the last legislation but already worked since 2009. Bad treatment of any animal has been regulated for a long time. Moreover, since 1995 no unjustified violence has been prohibited against all animals such as the abandonment of animals kept under the care of men in domestic, industrial or commercial regimes. We know that either situation occurs and there is an increasing need to protect animals that are evidence of investigations. The security forces themselves who have come to investigate this reality, such as the SEPNA (Natural and Environmental Protection Service), need places that protect these animals while conducting investigations into the evidence they investigate, and that investigate for the protection of animals themselves. In view of this, another issue arises after legislative progress: in order for these protections to be effective, it is necessary to implement specific and effective sites that can accommodate, protect and recover animals from the protection of the laws that we are making here. These sites, commonly known as sanctuaries and, because they are exactly this, places of care and protection, are spaces in which animals will be preserved from the damage that has been inflicted on them, but not only, they have to have the ability to work for the recovery of animals and to allow them to regain their natural behaviors. Thus, this draft resolution, submitted by BE, recommends that the Government take the necessary steps to ensure that this possibility is a reality, proposes the implementation of the necessary legal regime of the sanctuaries so that public associations and entities can license them with dignity and also recommends the creation of public sanctuaries to ensure that the State guarantees the protection that it legislates. If wild animals can no longer be used in circuses they must be welcomed. This is evidence and the State is responsible for this reception. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u82	You now have the floor, Mr. João Moura.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and telling them that, as regards animal welfare, we are partners, we are, in the same way, defenders of all these situations. Now, as regards the substance of the matter that brings us here, I must tell you that we cannot agree, because treating farm animals and farm animals in the same way as pets does not seem entirely correct. However, your petition serves to demonstrate and reveal that, in Portugal, there are indeed situations of ill-treatment of animals, there are, in fact, situations in which animals have a poor reception, but it also serves to point out that, in the first instance, the services of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary are not functioning as they should and are not accompanying this situation as they should. In this respect it must be pointed out that the supervisory, monitoring and control services, in particular the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and all security forces, do not have the necessary and sufficient means to monitor these situations in Portugal. With regard to the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and mainly the PAN, I would like to say that the fact that the NAP in its designation as a political party does not mean that this same party likes as much or more of them than any element of this Chamber of Deputies. [[PSD applause.]] I would like to say that the protection of animal protection and rights is not exclusively in VV. Ex., on the contrary. The animal protection habit and the concept that you have of 'company animals' as confined animals in any marquise in the city of Lisbon is not what we stand for in relation to animal welfare, on the contrary! You, systematically, try, in Portugal, to denigrate, to give machadas in what is considered the rural world. My dear ones, the concept of "rural world" that you have — possibly the same of that event that happens annually in Eduardo VII Park, with Tony Carreira concerts — is not the rural world of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u84	Look that the rural world is not the medieval world!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u85	The rural world of Portugal is the one in which, in an organisational pyramid of food and animals, there are a number of people, citizens who take care of the animals daily and who have the conditions to do so. What should I tell you, ladies and gentlemen? Members, on the side of the Democratic Social Party's board, are that we are fully available for any initiative that comes to this House and is debated on animal welfare. in this specific case, about what we are discussing today, the equidae in Portugal, I must tell you that we are therefore available, in the first instance, to talk with the associations of the sector, with the associations of creators.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u86	So talk to them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u87	These, yes, are the big ones responsible for the thousands of animals that are created in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u88	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Greens I welcome the more than 4000 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition. The struggle of ecology in the intransigent defense of the planet necessarily coincides with the defense of ecosystems and environmental balance, with the preservation of all wildlife and the rich biodiversity we have inherited and we want to link to future generations. That sensitive animals, and specifically domestic animals, bear the capacity to feel, to demonstrate affection is already, fortunately, commonly accepted, being shaped in the legal order that they are holders of a set of specific rights and deserving of their regulatory mechanisms of sanctioning and protection. However, the animals that specifically share our space and our daily life, especially domestic, company or work, are worthy of differentiated attention, because this proximity, in addition to specific problems, also brings with it a different responsibility that has to be fully assumed. that it is necessary to adapt the legislation so that the places where the animals are collected, cared for and protected as unique are within the real needs and so that no constraints are created that often arise only because of the incapacity of the responsible public institutions. Therefore, in order for animals that are collected and relocated to recovery centres, in shrines, in natural reserves or elsewhere approved by the Directorate-General for Veterinary Affairs, in conjunction with the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, it is necessary and urgent to hire more technical for these institutes. There can be no proximity to problems, effective supervision and the necessary support if these structures are not equipped with technicians, budgets and materials necessary to carry out their functions. That is why it will soon be necessary to require resettlement sites that enable the animal to live safely, with good conditions of food, health and space, giving priority to natural environments, if, in addition to a law appropriate to its construction, we do not have adequate supervision, monitoring and referral. That is why we not only follow the PCP bill, which, in addition to ensuring the network that is missing to collect the various exotic and wild animals of different origin, ensures the government's clear means and responsibility for its implementation, but also we will not vote against the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u90	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Palmira Maciel of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome the Left Block, the PAN and the Portuguese Communist Party for the various initiatives presented on the theme of the collection centres of farm animals and wild animals. I would also like to leave a word of appreciation for the petitioners who are asking for legislation to host farm and wild animals, saying that we are accompanying some of the concerns expressed and that we are committed to contributing to its resolution. I also refer to the NAP initiative, the bill that provides for the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to its protection. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the subject of the collection centres for farm animals and wild animals, we considered it appropriate to point out that the concepts of 'hospital places for wild animals' and 'hospital places for farm animals' constitute two different realities, either in terms of well-being or in terms of health conditions applicable to each of the groups. We recall that there is already legislation defining the procedures for the seizure and collection of wild animals, where the conditions and places of destination for reception and treatment are concerned. Still on this issue, there is very recent legislation, and work is under way with a view to its necessary regulation. It is therefore considered that some of the recommendations are, in fact, already regulated or in the process of being. We believe that it is also appropriate to study and identify the main objectives inherent in the theme of farm animals and wild animals in order to ensure that the needs, solutions and associated costs are raised. We have found that draft resolutions and draft laws do not present any assessment of the economic impacts of the proposed measures, in particular the costs of maintaining such an establishment. thus, it is also appropriate to define the following methodology for licensing of these sites which, in view of the type and number of animals to be housed, will have to comply with identification and registration rules, respecting the existing territorial management instruments and environmental standards. As for the draft law of the NAP, on the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to its protection, it allows us to state that, although we do not agree with the whole of its articulation, it is possible to improve, at the site of speciality. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that, in terms of animal welfare, the Socialist Party and its governments have shown that, with due weight and respect for all stakeholders, significant progress has been achieved and we consider the violation of animal welfare rules to be condemned, in particular the abandonment of animals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u92	With no further inscriptions on this point, we will move on to the next item on our agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 599 / XIII / 4. a ( Maria de Lurdes Lopes Pedro et al.) — They request the grant of a convention to the Medical Center for Dialysis of Benedictia, Alcobaça, together with the Draft Resolution No 76 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening of public supply in the area of haemodialysis. To introduce this initiative, I give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners and the petitioners and also by saying that the object of this petition has already been exceeded, because this convention has already been given by the Regional Health Administration. However, the Left Block would not like to miss the opportunity that this petition offers to bring to the plenary a situation that is happening in Portugal and that is, in our view, particularly serious, the situation in the area of haemodialysis. It is a worrying situation, firstly, for the State and, secondly and most importantly, for some 12 000 people who need regular haemodialysis in Portugal. In Portugal, the area of haemodialysis is worth anything like 300 million euros a year, being almost totally controlled by private and monopolies. There are two multinationals that control almost absolutely the market and have names — they are Fresenius and Diaverum. Both have created a vertical monopoly and a horizontal monopoly: it is vertical because they produce the machines, put the machines in the clinics, sell the consumables and then also have the open clinics, where they provide the services that are paid by the State; it is horizontal because they really control almost all the service delivery in this area. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really dangerous! Having a monopoly focused on two multinationals who want to do business at the expense of health is dangerous. It is dangerous for the State, which can easily become a hostage of multinational economic groups; it is dangerous for the public record, because if there is a monopoly, these companies can charge the state what they understand well to ensure health care for the population; it is dangerous for users, because whoever looks at this situation very easily realizes that the aim of these companies is business, it is profit and not health itself. Consider two examples. In 2011 a multinational company, Nephrocare, sent letters to several regional health administrations in the country saying that he would no longer accept renal patients with hepatitis B. Why? Because that made the treatments more expensive. In 2015, an investigation was initiated against another multinational, Diaverum, due to infection of several patients with hepatitis C. Deficiencies in the distribution of dialysis posts, cleaning procedures and lack of professionals have been identified. Indeed, we are faced with a situation that is dangerous, damaging to the State, and therefore the Left Block brings this draft resolution with two very concrete proposals: the first is that the Government and the State should strengthen public supply in the area of dialysis and the second is that they must take measures to combat and prevent the concentration of capital and the creation of monopolies in the area of hemodialysis. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u94	We will continue with the debate. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the almost 7,000 petitioners here who bring this topic the discussion and we also welcome the Block on the Left for its initiative to strengthen public supply in the area of haemodialysis, which we will follow and follow. There are 12 000 patients in Portugal — a number that has increased in recent years — but only 10 % of these patients are able to respond in the National Health Service, and the haemodialysis business dominated by two multinational companies which together, according to a report by the Health Regulatory Authority, achieve a concentration of 77 % of the market. A study conducted by the Catholic University in 2007, at the request of the Health Regulatory Entity, already alerted to the danger of concentration of the market for haemodialysis in the private sector, with loss of well-being for patients. Chronic renal failure is considered a terminal disease and the State ensures its treatment at 100 %. In 2018, 289 million were spent on treatments and 32 million more on transport, i.e. 320 million euros in total. The lack of public supply conditions and causes severe constraints on patients who are often forced to do several kilometres, several times a week, to get access to treatments. There are few public hospitals with these services and it is not because hospitals do not show willingness to have. With regard to existing clinics, many wait several years for the conclusion of conventions. As an example, we have what is brought to us here by the petitioners, the Medical Center for Dialysis of Benedictia, in Alcobaça, who waited about 2 years for the convention, which arrived only in September this year. I would also like to say that the concentration of these services has serious consequences for the well-being and health of patients who need to use this treatment three times a week and who, already tired of treatment, are often forced to make excessive journeys. What we would like to ensure is that it is time for the State to assume its role, to ensure the rights of patients with renal impairment in access to treatment in a responsible and sustainable manner. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u96	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed today the petition requesting the convention for the medical dialysis centre of Benedictia, presented by Maria de Lurdes Lopes Pedro and others, which brought together 6693 signatures and entered this House on 15 February this year. I take this time to welcome the petitioners and the representation they are here today, and also to celebrate the citizen participation initiative, which has been effective, since, in this case, the convention has already been signed, to produce effects since 1 September, so the use of this instrument has been relevant, since this need which gave rise to the petition has been recognized. In fact, the granting of this convention to this centre has been a long process, with more than 10 years of age, allowing many users of Benedictia's neighbouring parish to be spared throughout the calvary from, in many cases, having to do more than 300 km to have access to a treatment, the only treatment that keeps them alive. We now hope that the entire population covered by this centre will be able to benefit from this investment. Renal impairment is a pathology that causes great suffering to patients, subjecting them to a treatment process that obliges them to travel to dialysis centers several times a week. The impact this treatment has on the lives of people with this disease is highly limited, so users must be guaranteed the most comprehensive coverage possible, which reduces the impact these travels, added to the time of prescription, have on their lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u99	Access to health care is a constitutionally guaranteed right and it is also a constant commitment of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u101	It is up to regional health administrations to manage and plan regional responses to care delivery, and it is also up to them to guarantee the population of their areas of coverage to suit the resources available to meet and enforce health policies and programs. They should therefore be these entities operating these policies and programmes, adapting the supply to existing demand. This management should take into account, among other indicators, the number of hospitals offering dialysis for insufficient chronic kidney disease, its regional distribution, how many patients follow, that constraints on strengthening public supply exist, so that it can be assessed which areas of the country with the highest coverage, which percentage of the population is being followed in the public, compared to which it is being monitored in the conventional sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u103	In the draft resolution here today we also agree on what the increase in public response in haemodialysis treatments should be, so we believe that this increase would be desirable. It is our political responsibility to ensure that, either with a public response or with a private response, these people have the treatment they need to live, while respecting, of course, all the rules, as well as the recommendations of the ERS (Regulatory Health Entity) for the approval of these centres, as well as for the allocation of these conventions, without forgetting the respect for the competition laws and the required supervision of the entities involved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u104	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing Petition No 599 / XIII, submitted to this Parliament last February, through which almost 7000 citizens — whom the PSD Parliamentary Group has already taken advantage of to greet, in particular the petitioners present — requested the granting of a convention to the Benedictine Medical Center for dialysis in Alcobaça. We know that the unit has already obtained, at the end of July, the convention it needed in order to be able to initiate the provision of these dialysis treatments to patients who need them in the region and who will be in number more than a hundred. It is thus possible — although after many years of waiting — to a situation in which patients in dialysis had to make long journeys, often with significant loss of quality of life and well-being, in addition to high economic costs in transport, which, above all, the State had just to bear. It was therefore good news to allocate this convention. But, if that was good news, we cannot ignore the enormous challenges that are still faced in our country in terms of chronic kidney disease, to learn more that estimates point to 1 in 10 Portuguese adults suffering from this disease. According to a recent report by the Portuguese Society of Nephrology ( SPN ) there are more than 20,000 patients who are already at the most severe level of chronic kidney disease, of which 12 000 patients are undergoing haemodialysis. We are, in fact, one of the countries with the highest incidence and prevalence of patients under renal replacement treatment. The PSD therefore defends the existence of a network of haemodialysis care appropriate to the needs of populations. A network of proximity, with extended geographical coverage and likely to ensure treatment under such conditions as to produce the best use of resources. For this reason, in 2015 the PSD government then took several measures aimed at an integrated policy of management of chronic kidney disease. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by referring to the current reality of the area of dialysis in Portugal. We know that the response capacity of the public sector is limited, which justifies that the National Health Service uses conventions with the private sector. But we also know that this is a complex and vulnerable sector, where the market for the supply of dialysis presents high imbalances and in which it is especially important to ensure rules for transparency and equality of conditions between providers, without bottlenecks or spinners, but in an offer not necessarily public. It is only in the PSD's perspective that it will ensure that the State effectively defends the rights and legitimate interests of patients, after all, the true and principal recipients of health policies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u106	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and all the petitioners who have signed it. in it is requested to grant a convention with the Ministry of Health to the Medical Center of Dialysis of Benedictia. Even though this complaint has already been dealt with in the course of the proceedings, we must, however, be brief. Members, debate and reflect with rigour what is actually happening in the provision of care to the haemodialysed patient. As the PCP has long denounced, what is happening in Portugal around hemodialysis is actually a scandalous business. Unfortunately, patients with renal impairment are well aware of the consequences of the delivery to the private sector of a highly lucrative health sector. The fact is that there is a concentration of care provision for haemodialysed patients in two companies which together hold a large number of private haemodialysis clinics, monopolizing about 80 % of the so-called "market". This is not to be complementary or complementary, it is to take advantage of the disease, in this case of kidney disease. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone have the ingenuity to think that an economic group invests in health to lose money? It is a highly lucrative business that does not serve the country, does not serve the patients, does not serve the professionals or their rights, only serves the economic groups and their profits. When the need for health exists, as is the case with hemodialysates, which are more than 12 000 and 90 % of which are treated in private sector dialysis centres, it is quite evident that the State does not want to provide these health services, and it is obvious that the private uses it to do business. We need to put an end to this business. When health is a business the interests of patients are the last concern for businesses. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that it was the State itself that allowed the situation to reach this end. Due to the lack of intervention and policy options of consecutive governments, a public network for haemodialysis treatments has not been developed that this response to the needs of patients. The State has thus been responsible for the economic interests of these private groups. What we must demand is a firm and determined intervention by the government that opposes private interests, safeguarding public interests and patients. It is appropriate to say that Benedictite Medical Dialysis Center felt in the skin the effects of the dialysis monopoly, with the complacency of the government. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, Mr. President, Ferro Rodrigues, re-elected the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u109	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa spoke for an intervention by the CDS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners of this petition, about which everything has already been said. It is a petition that requested the Convention for the Medical Center of Dialysis of Benedictia in Alcobaça, and which is overcome by the good reason, already emphasized here, that it obtained this convention at the end of July and began to operate in September of the same year. On what has been said here, it is never too much to insist, and repeat, that for the CDS what matters is that people who need hemodialysis care in this case have them in time and time and in the best conditions, either in the public sector or in the private sector, through, in particular, conventions. However, having said this, we have all been informed here in Parliament of alleged irregularities in the municipality, in this same network. I would not like to let this debate go without a word on this matter, saying that it, in fact, is beyond the powers of this Parliament, but deserves a careful look at the bodies themselves, including the General Inspection of Health Activities and the Regulatory Health Entity. That is what we demand, in order to clarify the complaints because of the lack of good care provided, not because they are provided in the private sector or outside it, but because they are not being provided under the conditions due to Benedictine users. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u111	We have reached the end of the sixth item on our agenda. We have as a seventh point the Bill No. 174 / XIV / 1. a ( BE, PS, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and ENP ) — Extension of the validity of the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, created by Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August, without time allocated for discussion. It is also on our agenda, on the eighth point, the Draft of Deliberation No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Budget procedure in the Assembly of the Republic, also without time allocated for discussion. We therefore move on to the last item on our agenda with the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. While Mr. Members sign up, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 172 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Modernization of the activity regime of the taxi sector ( ninth amendment to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August ) and 173 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Decreases the maximum period of loyalty in electronic communications and introduces new mandatory elements to the contract, which falls to 6. the Commission. Resolution Projects No. 169 / XIV / 1 also entered. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government continue to adopt a policy to reduce toll rates which falls to 6. the Commission, 170 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the publication of the general comments of the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which falls to 10. the Commission, 171 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the areas of dramatic expression and theatre, which falls to 8. the Commission, 172 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Construction of health unit of the High Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, 173 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the early intervention recruitment group, which falls to 8. the Commission, 176 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a Port Metro Development Plan for the next decade, and 177 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government assess the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August in order to ensure the safety of persons, which falls to 7. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u113	I remember the ladies. Members we are holding elections to the following bodies: National Elections Commission, Economic and Social Council, Superior Magistracy Council and Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office. These elections are taking place in Sala D. Maria and will continue until 20 minutes after this plenary session is over. There are Mrs. and Mrs. Members who have not yet registered for the purpose of voting quorum. Let's wait a few more minutes. [[Pause.]] I think we can finish the electronic registration process. Anyone who isn't registered knows what he has to do if he's here, if he's not able to do anything... We shall then proceed to the vote, since we have 203 Members registered. Mr. André Martins asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u114	Good morning, Mr President, my name is André Silva, and I mean I can't sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u115	I didn't make this mistake a few weeks ago, it's a good sign! I'm sorry, Mr. André Silva. Please, Mr Norberto Patinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u116	It is for the same purpose, Mr President. I couldn't sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u117	Mrs. Joana Mortagua, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u118	Mr President, it is the same situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u119	Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u120	Mr President, it is the same situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u121	Mr. Duarte Pacheco tells me he's here. It's visible, it's here at the table! Mr. André Coelho Lima asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u122	Mr President, it is the same situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u123	Mr. Carlos Peixoto, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u124	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u125	Mrs. Cláudia Cardoso, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u126	Mr President, I have not been able to sign up either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u127	Mr. André Neves, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u128	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u129	Please, Mr Nuno Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u130	It is for the same purpose, Mr President. Present.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u131	This record went on very little electronic! Open... Mr. Pedro Alves, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u132	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u133	Mr. Antonio Topa, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u134	Mr President, it is the same situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u135	Is there anyone else who couldn't register? Mr. Paulo Neves, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u136	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u137	216 Members are present. I think those who aren't registered now are because they're not here. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the votes. I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, to read the vote No 129 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS ) — Regret of Fernando Lemos's death.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Fernandes de Lemos, known as Fernando Lemos, born in Lisbon on 3 May 1926, settled in Brazil in 1953, where he also acquired Brazilian nationality, and died in São Paulo, on 17 December 2019. He studied at the School of Decorative Arts António Arroio and at the National Society of Fine Arts, in Lisbon. In 1994 a retrospective of his photographic work was carried out at the Modern Art Center of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation and, a few months ago, a last major exhibition in the National Cordoaria, dedicated exclusively to graphic design. In 2018 he was awarded the degree of Grand Officer of the Order of Infante D. Henrique, to which numerous distinctions, national and international awards are associated. Great Luso-Brazilian humanist, one of the greatest names of Portuguese surrealism, belonged to the third generation of Portuguese modernist artists, dedicating himself to painting, drawing, photography and graphic design, as well as to writing and teaching. Thus, meeting in plenary on 20 December 2019, the Assembly of the Republic pays due tribute to Fernando Lemos, expressing its deepest regret for his disappearance and presenting his condolences to the family ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u139	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will proceed with the vote on Vote No 130 / XIV / 1a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PS Members ) — On condemnation and sorrow for 304 people killed in the anti-government protests of November in Iran. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and L and with abstentions from the CFP and the ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u140	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u141	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u142	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u143	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us vote vote No 123 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the NAP ) — Condemning for the expulsion of Portuguese activist Isabel Lourenço do Sahara Occidental. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, CFP, PAN, ENP, IL and L, votes against the CDS-PP and CH and abstentions by PS and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u144	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u145	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u146	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u147	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall continue, with the vote on vote No 125 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS, PSD and PCP ) — Congratulations on the recognition of the « Winter Festivals- Carnival of Power » as an Immaterial Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the vote on vote No 126 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Of condemnation and concern for the reception in Portugal of a group of foreigners who entered the country illegally. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L were rejected, votes against CH and IL and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u148	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u149	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u150	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u151	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u152	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u153	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u154	Mr President, the CDS will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u155	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 127 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Of condemnation and concern for Portugal's decline in the Climate Change Performance Index. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the L were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CH, and abstentions against the CDS-PP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u156	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u157	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u158	Mr President, it is to announce that the NAP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u159	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will now vote vote on vote No 128 / XIV / 1a ( presented by CH ) — Of condemnation and concern about the failures in the provision of relief to victims by INEM. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u160	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u161	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u162	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that we will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u163	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u165	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u166	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u167	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u168	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u169	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u170	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u172	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u173	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u174	Mr President, I shall deliver an individual vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u175	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u176	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u177	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u178	Mr. President, it's just to announce that I'm here. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u179	All right. We became aware of his voice! We shall continue the vote. People who want to say that they are here should say it in the end and not in the middle of the vote. Mr. Carlos Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u180	Mr President, it is to announce my presence, but also that of Mr Sofia Afonso Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u181	I had just asked for these announcements to be made only at the end of the vote. We cannot stop voting because people are late. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 131 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PS Members ) — Solidarity with the European Commission's decision to condemn the murder of Maltese journalist Daphne Caruana Galicia. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and L and with abstentions from the CFP and the ENP.]] Mr. João Oliveira asks for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u182	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u183	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Duarte Marques had asked for the floor a short time ago. I'm sorry, I didn't notice. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u184	Mr President, it was to announce a vote on the previous vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u185	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on vote No 132 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CH ) — Condemning the statements made by the President of the Assembly of the Republic to the Express. [[When put to the vote, the vote was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L, and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u186	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u187	Mr President, it is in order to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote on the votes of votes Nos 126 and 132 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u188	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u189	Mr President, it is to announce a written statement of vote, which is the same, indeed, that I have done orally on this subject yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u190	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall continue with the votes. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 133 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings to International Migration Day. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L and with abstentions from CDS-PP, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u191	Mr. Paulo Neves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u192	Mr President, it is to announce that I am going to make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u193	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 175 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Mozambique. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote is followed by Law No 179 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Change Law No. 17 / 2014 of 10 April, establishing the basis of the policy of planning and management of the National Maritime Area. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and L, vote against CH and abstentions from CDS-PP, PAN and Member of PS Ana Paula Vitorino.]] Mr Adam Silva, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u194	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u195	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. André Ventura, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u196	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u198	It is also to announce a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u199	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Antonio Lima Costa, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u200	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a statement of vote together with Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ana Paula Vitorino, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u202	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u203	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Jorge Lacão, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u204	Mr President, it is for a request to the Bureau arising from the general approval of the Proposal for a Law No 179 / XIII / 4. a, which has just taken place: in line with the Directorate and with the Members of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I would like to ask Mr President to consider the fall of this diploma not only to the Commission who appreciated it at the previous stage but also to 1. the Commission, that of Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, to 2. the Commission, the Commission of Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, and 3. the Commission, the National Defence Commission. The reason for this request is that this matter contains significantly sensitive issues of the exercise of national sovereignty and the reconciliation of the weighting of the specialty will imply the weighting of these work within these committees. To the weight of Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u205	Mr. Marcos Perestrello asked for the floor. I remember that we are in the middle of the vote and that there are no speeches in the middle of the vote, but if it is a point of order for the Bureau, please do so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u206	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u207	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Inês Sousa Real, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u208	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u209	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Adam Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u210	Mr President, that is to say that we agree with the request made by Mr Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u211	Mrs. Members, since there is a clear majority in the plenary within the meaning of the request made to the Bureau, the proposed law which has just been approved will be sent to the 7th meeting. a, 1. a, 2. a and 3. the Commission, as proposed to the President. We will generally vote for Bill No. 70 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Establishs the recovery regime for public control of TTCs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] Mr. Ascension Simões, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u212	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u213	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No 84 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs the nationalisation regime for TTCs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and L, and abstention from the NAP.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 30 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reversion of privatisation of TTCs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L were rejected.]] Mr. André Ventura, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u214	Mr President, it is only to indicate that I will give a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 108 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the quality of the universal public postal service. [[Pause.]] The draft resolution was adopted, although with a minimum margin — 112 votes in favour, 111 against and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the Czech Republic. The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u216	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u217	Mr. João Oliveira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u218	Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the result of the vote just announced: the CDS Parliamentary Group, which has 5 Members, has been abstained, and the 1- MP arrives, has 6 abstentions. As there are 230 Members, there are 224 remaining. If 112 Members voted in favour, there had to be 112 votes against, so the result of the vote is even. Having drawn up, the vote must be repeated and the draft resolution must be rejected once again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u219	Let us then repeat the vote. It's perhaps the most prudent. As you know, the vote is made by banks and we will therefore repeat the vote on draft resolution No 108 / XIV / 1. a. [[Pause.]] The Secretary had not seen the vote of the Liberal Initiative, so she was not being considered. Therefore, the result is even and there must be a second vote. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen voting against, please stand up. [[Members of the PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and IL have now risen.]] Anyone who abstains please get up. [[The members of the CDS-PP and the CH have now risen.]] Mrs. Members, having registered a new draw, draft resolution No 108 / XIV / 1. it has not been approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u221	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u222	Mr President, I apologize, but still returning to the vote on draft resolution No 108 / XIV / 1. to the accounts we are making, having voted in favour of the Socialist Party, with 108 Members, the PAN, with 4 Members, and the Livre, with 1 Member, gives 113 votes, to which six abstentions are added.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u223	I'm sorry, but it's impossible for the Bureau to work when you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen don't sign and don't get up. It is clear that the vote on the Book will not have been considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u224	The Member of the Book rose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u225	So, it was a lack of vision from who is in the Bureau making the counting of votes. To remove even the doubts regarding this important resolution, we will vote again on draft resolution No 108 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the quality of the universal public postal service. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the L, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the IL and abstentions to the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the third draft resolution was adopted and down to 6. the Commission. It is a time of great importance! We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 14 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — About the dredgings in the Sado estuary. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] The draft resolution is down to 7. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government revoke the authorisation granted to the Administration of the Port of Setúbal to move forward with the dredgings in Sado. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and L and the abstention from CH.]] Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u226	Mr President, in order to say that on this subject I will present a declaration of vote individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 46 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends suspension of dredgings in the Port of Setúbal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PSD, BE, PAN, ENP and L and abstentions against the PCP, CH and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 98 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integral accounting of the entire time of service of careers and special bodies. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, CFP, NAP, ENP, CH and L and abstention from IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 100 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Full recovery of completed service time. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the L and abstentions against the CH and the IL.]] Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u228	Mr President, it is only to give an indication that I will enter the Bureau of a statement of vote on the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u229	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Luís Leite Ramos asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u230	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two draft laws we have just voted on, the one on the Left Block and the one on the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u231	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No 91 / XIV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Extends parental protection to parents with children with disabilities, rare disease or oncological disease and determines the payment to 100 % of the allowance for assistance to children with disabilities, chronic illness or cancer. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and L and the PS abstention.]] The bill therefore goes down to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 95 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening rights and conditions of follow-up to children with chronic, oncological or accident-related disease. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and L and the PS abstention.]] The bill also drops to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 102 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the social and labour protection of parents in a child’s care framework with cancer. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and L and the PS abstention.]] The bill also drops to 10. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 111 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Increases in 60 days the initial parental leave period, in the case of birth of children with disabilities or rare disease, and increases the amount of the allowance for assistance to children with disabilities, chronic illness or cancer, proceeding to 15. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 from 12 February ( Labour Code ) to 7. the amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April ( Legal System of Social Protection in Parentality ), and to 4. the amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 of 9 April ( Legal Regime of Social Protection in the Parentality of Public Service Workers Integrated in the Convergent Social Protection Scheme ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and L and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. Mrs Marina Gonçalves, what effect did you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u232	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has already made a statement of vote on the last four legislative initiatives we have voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u233	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 11 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights( 16 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L and the abstention from CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 89 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Combats false temporary work and restricts the use of outsourcing and temporary work. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, L and 7 PS (Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Filipe Pacheco, Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha, Miguel Matos, Olavo Camera, Tiago Estêvão Martins).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u234	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u235	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u236	Mr President, it is only to say that the Members of the Socialist Party who voted in favour of this bill will present a joint vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u237	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u238	Mr President, it is in order to realize that I will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u239	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Paulo Correia, for what effect did you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u240	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two bills that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u241	Mr. Deputies, it is also registered. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u242	Mr. President, it is in the same sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the summary. We will generally vote for Bill No. 77 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines the obligation to carry out a monthly analysis of the waters intended for human consumption in order to verify the presence of glyphosate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and the PCP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 78 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Visa for non-marketing of herbicides with glyphosate for non-professional uses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, CH and L and the abstention from IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 81 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the obligation of analysis to the presence of glyphosate in water intended for human consumption ( third amendment to the Water Quality Scheme for Human consumption approved by Decree-Law No 306 / 2007 of 27 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and the PCP abstention.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 82 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prohibits the application of products containing glyphosate in urban areas, leisure areas and communication routes ( second amendment to Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, CH and L and the abstention from IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 83 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the non-professional use of products containing glyphosate ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 101 / 2009 of 11 May ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, CH and L and the abstention from IL.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 21 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Measures to eradicate the use of glyphosate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and L were rejected.]] We will now vote on the application, submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea to be discharged without a 90-day vote of Bill No 90 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Provides for the improvement of the system of identification of the functional end of equidae with a view to their protection. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill therefore drops to 7. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 96 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the network of reception and rehabilitation centres for wild and exotic animals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and L were rejected.]] Mr. João Castro asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u244	Mr President, it is to inform that, with regard to the votes of the glyphosate initiatives, the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u245	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 74 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Establishment of shelters for wild animals and farm animals and their legal framework. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, CH and L and abstentions against the ENP and IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 82 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a legal framework for breeding sites for farm animals and wild animals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, CH, IL and L and the ENP abstention.]] Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, for what effect did you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u246	Mr President, to announce a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u247	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u248	Mr President, it is also to say that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u249	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 76 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening of public supply in the area of haemodialysis. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the L, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from PS, PSD, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u250	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u251	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u252	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u253	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft Law No 174 / XIV / 1. a ( BE, PS, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and PEV ) — Extension of the validity of the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, created by Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u254	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u255	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u256	Mr President, with regard to the draft law which has just been adopted in a comprehensive final vote, unanimously, I would like to make an oral request for the waiver of final drafting and period of complaint so that it could be sent as soon as possible to the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u257	Is there any member of the House opposed? [[Pause.]] Since no one is opposed, then we shall vote on the oral application submitted by BE, requesting the waiver of the final wording and the deadline for claim against inaccuracies in respect of Bill No 174 / XIV / 1. a ( BE, PS, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and PEV ) — Extension of the validity of the independent technical observatory for analysis, monitoring and evaluation of forest and rural fires occurring in the national territory, created by Law No 56 / 2018 of 20 August. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote for the Draft of Deliberation No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Budget procedure in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and the abstention from CH.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 139 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN ) — Recommends that the Government cease to comply with the Habitats Directive and designate the Special Conservation Areas ( ZEC ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and L and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u258	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u259	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u260	Mr President, it is to give an indication that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u261	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. In relation to the Resolution Project No 164 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to protect the Sado estuary, the PS requested the joint vote on points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 and then the separate vote on point 6. We shall proceed to the joint vote on points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH and L were adopted and voted against IL.]] Let us now proceed to the separate vote on point 6 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the L and the PS, BE, the NAP and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u262	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u263	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u264	Mr President, it is to announce that we shall present a statement of vote on our vote in point 6.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u265	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 166 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it enable the full implementation of the 2019 budget allocation for staff expenditure of the Financial Institution and Political Financing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CFP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the L and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u266	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u267	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u268	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u269	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft Rules of Procedure Nos 1 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August in order to ensure the fair and proportional representation of all political parties, 2 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, eliminating the qualitative difference between the political parties represented in this Assembly, 3 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August extending the rights of the sole representatives of a party and defining criteria for fixing time grids, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The fourth amendment is made to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007. The adoption of this final text requires an absolute majority of the Members present by means of an electronic vote in accordance with Article 267 ( 4 ). Article 94 ( 4 ) and ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic ( RAR ). [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the Members present, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP and ENP, vote against CH and abstentions from CDS-PP, PAN, IL and L.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u270	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u271	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u272	Mr President, it is to announce that I voted in favour, but due to a technological problem, as I had no system, I was not registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u273	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The same has happened to several Mrs. Members, including at the Bureau. Indeed, there were many Mrs. Members who were unable to press the button, especially in green. However, with 214 votes in favour, this final text has been adopted by far more than the absolute majority of Members present.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u274	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u275	Mrs. Joana Mortagua, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u276	Mr President, it is to inform that I have not been able to vote electronically either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u277	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. However, at present there are already 216 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u278	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u279	Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u280	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I tried to vote and I couldn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u281	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u282	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u283	Mr Duarte Marques, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u284	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I tried to vote, I'm afraid I voted against, but I wanted to say that I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u285	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We already have 218 votes in favour, with far more than the absolute majority of Members present, and the final text has been adopted. Now, the gentlemen. Members who are present and have not yet expressed it will be able to do so at the end of the vote. The Secretary will then take note of an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which will be voted on after its reading. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u286	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Organic Unit 2 of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Coimbra, Case No. 669 / 17.7BECBR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr. João Gouveia ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-12-20.u287	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The gentlemen. Members who have not been able to register electronically and who have not yet done so orally do so please do so now, getting up and saying their name, so that the services can record it and the Bureau can announce it. [[Pause.]] I would like to refer to the names of these gentlemen. Members: Joaquim Barreto ( PS ), Monica Quintela ( PSD ), Sofia Matos ( PSD ), Carlos Silva ( PSD ), Pedro Coimbra ( PS ), Lina Lopes ( PSD ), Paulo Rios de Oliveira ( PSD ), Sérgio Sousa Pinto ( PS ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with this call, we have reached the end of our work today. I recall that the votes to elect several members of important bodies, namely the National Elections Commission, the Economic and Social Council, the Superior Council of the Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, continue to run and that the polls will remain open for more than 20 minutes. I would like to present, at this plenary session, my vows for a good Christmas and a happy New Year to all Members and to all Members. Members and, through them, all voters and all Portuguese. [[General applause.]] The plenary meeting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 43 minutes.]]
