ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 1 minute.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members of the first item on our agenda today is the joint assessment of Petition No 487 / XIII / 3. a ( Rui Filipe Teixeira da Graça et al.) — Action to defend Pinhal do Rey and the Resolution Projects Nos 41 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Saving the coastal forests: short and long-term commitments, 42 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — By the defense of Pinhal de Leiria, 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the fulfilment of forestry criteria under the National Lawn Recovery Plan and 49 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recovery, monitoring and monitoring of the valuation of the National Leiria Forest. To open the debate, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the citizens who subscribe to this petition to the Assembly of the Republic, which are represented here today. The National Forest of Leiria is the largest forest of ownership and public management, with more than 11 000 ha, and it was the victim of a fire that consumed 86% of its area, in the municipality of the Great Navy, but the disaster extended north, destroying 90% of the National Forest of the Pedrogon, 54% of the National Forest of the Bear, 53% of the National Forest of the Dunes of Chiaios, 81% of the Forest Perimeter of the Cantanhed Dunes and 53% of the Forest Perimeter of the Dunes and Peas of Mira. After two years, as you would expect, a lot of work is about to be done. Post-fire emergency stabilization has been limited to timely interventions, there is still wood to be cut, many invasive plants, from eucalyptus to acacias, are taking over land, and the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests) continues with a huge lack of human resources. A number of competitions were opened to strengthen staff who had become deserts due to the poor working conditions offered. There have already been several reforestation actions, mostly through volunteering and corporate sponsorship, successfully doubting that many plants have not caught and there are no people for daily work. The most worrying thing to do is the absence of a global plan, the lack of commitment to the future in the medium term. A scientific committee has been set up which has produced a valuable diagnostic report and several proposals, but it is not known which proposals the ICNF accepts, some are already being validated. We need a strong political and government commitment in the long term, for several legislatures, and therefore the Bloc proposes the following: the construction, within 6 months, of plans for requalification and reforestation of burned public forests, including the identification of environmental, social and economic services that are intended to be ensured; the mapping of services, intended forest species and natural and semi-natural habitats classified by Habitats Directive; concrete targets, calendars, and an estimate of the means necessary for their completion until full requalification and reforestation. The production, within six months, of the first post-fire forest management plans, since the latter date 2010 and this reality no longer exist; the promotion of training and public participation processes; that all the recommendations of the Scientific Commission be taken into account and a public report is produced with due justification for the recommendations that are rejected and that the ICNF is empowered with the necessary operational, human and financial means in the short and long term. These are the commitments for the future, with the next generations, which the Bloc puts here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u3	For the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor to present draft resolution No 42 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens greet all petitioners for the relevance of the issue, because, as we know, the devastating and tragic fires of 2017 will be hard to forget and public action must contribute to minimize its effects. The petition currently under discussion proposes measures for the defense of Pinhal do Rei, which was affected by the fires that devastated the center of our country in 2017, destroying 86 % of its area, covering about 8800 ha of burned area. Several ecosystems were lost that played a very important role at the environmental, social and productive level, with significant value also at the historical and scientific level. Part of this pinhal is witness to the earliest known reforestation action carried out by humans from the 13th century onwards, and constitutes a green reference area in our country. We all know where the responsibilities are, but now is not the time to cry over the forest, now is the time to go back to the de-investment in that National Plant and take steps to save it as a public plant. The Greens accompany the concern of the petitioners in the necessary and urgent intervention so that the reforestation, valuing and defense of the Pinhal de Leiria is effective and occurs quickly, in order to recover the natural wealth previously existing. Despite some efforts and the implementation of some measures by the ICNF for the re-arborization of Pinhal de Leiria, there is still much to be done. Here too the dictatorship of the deficit spoke higher! The existence of reforestation plans is unknown as well as the new Forest Management Plans ( PGF ), where the various actions should be framed. With regard to human resources, which have been so lacking in the protection of this natural heritage, it has been announced, over the past year and this year, the opening of public tenders for the integration of 35 operations into the Leiria Forest; however, they are still insufficient to meet the actual needs. The Greens therefore recommend that the Government strengthen the funds for the ICNF Investment Programme 2018 - 2022, in national forests, in particular in the National Leiria Forest, and we know, for example, that the woody material burnt, with commercial value, of the 132 alienated lots has already yielded EUR 13, 6 million. There is also a need for a significant increase in the human resources of the ICNF, including forestry technicians, Florist guards and operational assistants delegated to the National Leiria Forest. Finally, the ENP proposal recommends that the recommendations of the Scientific Committee and the Monitoring Centre for the Pinhal of the King be urgently integrated into the various instruments for forest planning and management in force and that the Government submit the timing of the measures defined in the Lithor Forest Recovery Programme, drawn up by the Scientific Committee, in addition to the opinion of the Pinhal Observatory of the King. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u5	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to greet the 6506 people who signed the petition in defense of Pinhal de Leiria. Today two years and a month have been recorded that a fire like no memory has devastated more than 9000 hectares of forest in the central region and has given more than seven centuries of history of Pinhal de Leiria, reducing it almost to ashes. The conclusion of the experts that it will be necessary more than a century to regain the Pinhal of the King as it existed before 15 October 2017 has increased the feeling of loss of that which is the largest national forest, one of the oldest in the world. But it wasn't just the National Forest of Leiria. As they recall — and well — the petitioners were the forest of Quinta-Feira da Espiga, Samouco, Tremelgo, Canto do Ribeiro, Afonso Lopes Vieira’s “green and sussurant cathedral” and so many other memories that bind us to the Pinhal de Leiria. It is clear that no one could or could demand that it be solved two years later, but either by the photographs, or by the visits to the Pinhal de Leiria there is a conclusion that we can all subscribe: two years later, the Pinhal de Leiria is practically as the fire has left it! The signs of the abandonment of Pinhal de Leiria are visible in the trees that continue to be cut; the signs of the abandonment of Pinhal de Leiria are visible in the spread of invasive species; the signs of the abandonment of Pinhal de Leiria are visible in the roads of the forest that continue as they were left by fire, cut, and in the abandoned and destroyed houses of the Florestal guards; the signs of the abandonment of Pinhal de Leiria are visible in the absence of superior operators and technicians, as recognized by the ICNF itself; the signs of the abandonment of Pinhal de Leiria are visible in the lack of concrete calendar in the actions of recovery of the forest. It saves the honor of the convent the various cases of social responsibility initiatives that have already contributed to the reforestation. Initiatives of more or less organized groups of people, companies, municipalities, who have associated with this cause, but these actions, unfortunately, are a drop in the ocean, if we look at the 11000 ha that make up our forest. If the Government has failed in its role today, with the approval of the various initiatives presented here, Parliament can fulfil its role: a Parliament that requires the recovery plan to be effectively fulfilled; a Parliament that requires the strengthening of means for the recovery and preservation of the King's Pinhal ; a Parliament that requires a calendar plan of concrete actions for forest recovery throughout the National Lawn Forest. [[PSD applause.]] During the intervention, Images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u7	For the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u8	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you, as well as the Members. Members and the 6500 petitioners who have signed this petition, to whom I also greet, and still all those who have made this petition see the light of the day. This petition clearly identifies the problems of the National Forest of Leiria and at the same time points out the solutions and ways to solve these same problems. They ask the petitioners that, with regard to the National Lawn Lawn, the State assumes all its responsibilities and acts quickly in defence of it. They also present requirements concerning the destination to be given to pinewood and the value obtained from its sale, as well as with regard to public management and allocation of human and technical resources. The National Forest of Leiria, one of the most important forest resources available in the country, one of the great natural treasures that is part of the very identity of the central region of the country, has seen 86% of its forest area burn in the fires of 15 and 16 October 2017, having been accounted for more than 8800 hectares of burned area. We have no doubt, sirs. Members, that the severity of the 2017 fire is directly related to the progressive de-investment of the State in forest management, particularly in national forests, with the reduction of the capacity to respond to the needs of the forest with the dismantling of State structures, in particular the strong reduction of staff of the services of the Ministry of Agriculture, including the ICNF. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the problem of Pinhal de Leiria is not the principle of public management by the State, but the lack of means leading to poor and ineffective management. Once again, the PCP manifests its total opposition to any attempt to privatize, direct or indirect, the largest Portuguese national forest. On the contrary, the CFP understands, in the same sense that the petitioners request, that it is essential to ensure, in the short and medium term, the process of carrying out the cleaning, preservation, reforestation, rearrangement and enhancement of the Pinhal de Leiria. This plan should be implemented by the State in conjunction with the authorities and populations and the necessary resources and resources should be guaranteed already in the State budget for 2020. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, therefore, today we bring to the plenary a draft resolution recommending to the Government the adoption of measures necessary to ensure the urgent and effective implementation of the recovery and recovery of the National Leiria Forest, as well as the follow-up and scrutiny of the measures and actions taken. The National Forest of Leiria and all national forests can count on the PCP for its defense. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u9	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Pedrosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and it is with satisfaction, as Parliamentary and as a subscriber to this petition, that I find that much of its objectives are met. First, he fought the petition so that all the value of the sale of burning wood would be allocated to the recovery of the pinhal. at this time, about 13, 5 million euros were sold in wood, were already spent half a million euros in 1000 ha of intervention and 22 forest species were introduced. More than two million euros, 1500 ha of intervention and two million plants to be introduced into the field are under contract. The remaining reforestation process by 2022 provides for an additional expenditure of EUR 12, EUR 5 million, which amounts to a total of EUR 15 million, which is higher than the value of the wood sold. Secondly, it states the petition that there should be a participation of local authorities in the management process. The Pinhal Observatory of the King was established, where all local entities, civil society, public and military authorities participate in the process whose aim is reforestation. The petition seeks to strengthen human and material resources for the ICNF. Well, the competition was opened for 35 vacancies of operational assistants and the hiring of 100 superior forest technicians is under way,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ...and heavy machinery was acquired for the ICNF, worth EUR 9 million.So the strengthening of human and financial resources is happening. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourthly, it fights for reforestation according to the best technical opinions and a scientific committee was set up, bringing together the best universities in the area of forestry, so that this project is done, and the same is being monitored by that committee. More: the government went beyond what was requested in the petition and what is poured into the draft resolutions, notably with the introduction of a national forest management department in the Great Navy. Two hundred and fifty years after the first administration of the royal forests has been created in the territory of the Great Navy, the management of the forests returns to this place. Finally, the Government presented a proposal for a protocol already providing €300 000 for the start-up of the forest museum, which was an objective of this House, in particular our parliamentary leader, who in 1995 presented this proposal which will now be implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not everything has been done. We know that this is an ambitious goal, but it is important that all parliamentary groups join the government and the municipal chamber in order to continue this herculean task of reforesting the Pinhal de Leiria. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u13	Mr Cecilia Meireles spoke for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners here who bring this initiative about Pinhal de Leiria. As we all know in 2017, Pinhal de Leiria was the victim of a tragedy with fires that swept it by more than 80%. Since then, the CDS has been monitoring the situation. We have repeatedly presented recommendations to the Government, either in draft resolutions or in the budget of the State, that the part or all of the money from the burning wood should be allocated to the reforestation and compensation of the people, especially in this case, so that the reforestation would be carried out quickly. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the reforestation of this Pinhal will not take place overnight. That's not possible. But it is, in fact, incomprehensible that until today the various resolutions, many of which on the initiative of the CDS — and that is why the CDS has not re-submitted resolutions — which we have approved in this House, recommending to the Government, among other things, that it ensure that the revenue from the sale of woodwood, whether the burning at the time or in the future, should continue to be assigned to the reforestation and good management of Pinhal, and that this reforestation is so late today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to think about something: if we continue to make resolutions recommending that the government do something and the government systematically does not comply with it, then we will have to remove consequences from it, especially the parties that support it. With all honesty, it is very little useful to present resolutions to say the same things systematically when the government also systematically does not comply with them. on the part of the CDS, we will not give up in drawing attention to this subject, but it is important that the parties supporting the government also remove consequences from it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u15	To conclude this point, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the petitioners for having brought this issue back to debate in the Assembly of the Republic. In the 2017 fires, 86% of the National Lawn Plant burned. It was a truly catastrophic result for the local population but also for the country, due to the loss of cultural, historical and environmental value. It is important now that the Forest Management Plan of this forest, known as Pinhal do Rey, is updated in the face of changes that have suffered from the 2017 fires. The current Forest Management Plan dates from 2010 and was also developed on the basis of the former Regional Forest Management Plan of the Coastal Centre. Although this plan was revised in 2019, both this and the other Regional Forest Management Plans ( PROF ) were developed on the basis of the latest National Forest Inventory ( IFN), which dates from 2011. Therefore, it is outdated in the face of the composition of the current forest and therefore we have serious doubts about the real planning of the forest, as well as the possibility of meeting the goals set in the National Forest Strategy, whether as regards the reduction in the risk of fire such as adaptation to climate change or the protection of soils and water resources. It is also necessary to reflect on the importance of a true linkage of the Forest Management Plan with the Regional Forest Management Plans, since the current PROF do not change the composition of the forest compared to those of 2006, while maintaining the areas of eucalyptus and, worse, favouring them in most of the territory. Furthermore, it is to note a chronic shortage of resources for nature conservation. the environmental fund budget, on average, financing projects for nature conservation and environmental recovery does not exceed 5 % per year. The 2017 fires demonstrate precisely a great lack of investment in our forests, as they show that no proper management of the National Leiria Forest has been done, which, even after the loss of 86% of its forest, has not taken the necessary action. This is due, once again, to the lack of resources, to the lack of timing, i.e. the lack of serious commitment to the regeneration of this place of national importance, to the lack of effective combat against invasive species and others which, not being invaders, pose an increased risk, as is the case with eucalyptus. For all this, we consider it essential to strengthen the operational, human and financial means of the ICNF, but we point out that it should not only be for the recovery of this forest, in particular for the recovery of all forest areas from the competence of the ICNF, with particular focus on protected areas, including not only those affected by fires but also those affected by other natural phenomena. Is there a need for a new catastrophe in order to find a real investment in our forest? It is urgent, therefore, a serious commitment to the protection of our territory and environmental values, a commitment that does not fit the role but highlights a real will to do more and better for our country. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u17	Mrs. Members, let us move to point two of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 113 / XIII / 1. a (Order of Physicians) — By the right to reduce working hours, for the follow-up of children up to 3 years of age, in two hours a day, by one of the parents, together with, in general, the Bills No. 26 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures the right to reduce working hours for breastfeeding, breastfeeding or accompanying children up to 3 years of age, promoting an amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 55 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the allowance for child care up to 2 years of age, in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding, starting at 15 years. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, 60 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the dispensation for follow-up to children up to 3 years of age, starting at 16. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February and 62 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the right of children up to 3 years to be accompanied by parents. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all know, the low birth rate is a serious problem with which Portugal faces serious implications in our population index but also in the age structure of the population. The causes of the problem, many of them, are, however, intrinsically linked to a common element, the perception of being difficult to extend the family if the conditions to ensure their survival and well-being are precarious or associated with a dose of insecurity or lack of time for the follow-up due. in this context, low wages and precariousness at work are undeniably factors that compete for families to have no children, since they are not available the safety conditions necessary to offer one or more children. But there are other factors that are relevant in the option of delaying or even deciding not to have children, including the fragility or insufficiency in supporting childhood and the difficulty of reconciling a very demanding professional life with family life. More: discrimination of women in access to employment due to maternity is a reality that even generates such serious and overwhelming situations as that in which an employer hires only a woman if it is committed not to become pregnant in subsequent years. However, in the face of the existing problem, the Greens have been developing a number of initiatives because they believe it is possible to undertake a policy of incentive to birth, which just goes by offering better conditions for support to families, generating more security and more security in the future. Continuing this goal, The Greens today bring to the discussion a legislative initiative, proposing, in particular, the improvement of the follow-up given to children, ensuring that parents, by this way, better reconciliation between professional life and family life in the early years of the child's life. We therefore propose not only to make a specific contribution to encourage birth through support for parenthood but also to ensure the well-being of children, with short, medium and long-term repercussions. In particular, the Greens propose that the 2-hour exemption from work which is currently planned for up to 1 year of age, but only for breastfeeding or breastfeeding purposes, be extended to follow-up to the child, regardless of whether he is breast-feeding or breast-feeding, up to 3 years of age. As is public, the Order of Physicians has warned a great deal about this issue, and has also promoted the petition that was at the root of the agenda of this discussion. On behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, I welcome the authors of the initiative and the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to it. It is now up to us to expect the other parliamentary banks to follow The Greens on this, because they are all winning with this proposal: children, parents, employers and, consequently, society in general. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners, both the Order of the Doctors and more than 15 000 citizens who subscribe to this petition, asking for the extension of the reduction of working hours for the follow-up of children up to 3 years of age in two hours a day by one of the parents. In fact, one of the serious problems of today's society in general and, above all, Portugal is the decrease in birth and the impact that this has on the future of all of us both in the lives of each one, since this means that many people who can and want to have children do not do so because they do not find the necessary conditions for it. It was in this sense that the CDS presented a proposal in 2016, taking the idea that there is already a two-hour daily allowance for child follow-up up to 1 year, but extending it, first, for children up to 2 years, specifying that it is not only breastfeeding but also child follow-up. These hours can be used by any of the parents and also by grandparents, if the families so wish. There is no miraculous measure that will solve the birth problem. To solve this problem and create the conditions for people who want to have children to have them, there must be measures in almost all aspects of governance and this has been one of our contributions to a concern of the CDS that has been constant throughout the last legislatures. At the time, in 2016, this measure was down here and could now be in force. We hope that now, in this proof of goodwill, by lowering the initiatives to the Commission without a vote, we can actually reach an extension of these two hours daily allowance for assistance to children. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u21	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners and the Order of the Doctors, who promoted this initiative, and by rightly saying that Portugal is one of the countries in which the greatest hiatus is among the projects of desired kinship and those that are effectively implemented, which happens because these projects of parenthood are not carried out in a social void but, rather, in a context where precariousness and irregular schedules, the scarcity of public responses, particularly at the level of the daycare centres and their cost, the lacks in terms of social support of the policies for children, often make people unable to carry out these projects of parenthood. It is true that in recent years there has been some increase in parental leave, there have also been mechanisms that have been encouraging greater sharing of these licenses and of these responsibilities, there has been an increase in family allowance and there has been a greater consideration for specific, special situations, such as the case of premature babies or the follow-up of children with disabilities. But there is still much to be done and, in this particular case, what the Order of Physicians proposes to us is the extension of that which is today the licence for breastfeeding or breastfeeding and the reduction of the schedule that is provided for in this licence: two hours a day in the first year in which breastfeeding or breastfeeding is being made. It invokes the Order of Physicians, to support this proposal, the importance of the first years of life for growth, for mental health, for the links between the child and his parents and proposes the extension of this licence to the first three years. The Left Block generally agrees and accompanies these intentions and we present here a bill that basically has three objectives: firstly, to extend the scope of the licence, i.e. to become a licence for follow-up no longer dependent on breastfeeding or other evidence; secondly, to extend the duration of this leave one year for the first three years of the child's life, i.e. to ensure that this reduction of the time applies to the first three years of the child's life; and, finally, to stimulate the sharing of this licence and this reduction of time, increasing it whenever it is assumed by both parents. Therefore, this is a project for more time, so that there will be more sharing, so that there will be more rights, not only for parents and mothers but also for children themselves, and, of course, when we ask that this diploma should be lowered to the Commission without a vote, we give a signal that we are available to work together and that this project can effectively become a law and mean an advance in the protection of parenthood and the rights of children. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u23	You now have the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to congratulate the Order of Doctors, which energizes this petition, and also the signatories, who place to the consideration of the Assembly of the Republic the need to reduce the working time for the follow-up of children up to 3 years of age. Monitoring children by parents is a right of the child, which is inseparable from guaranteeing rights, including labour rights, parents and working mothers. For this reason, the CFP has defended, in particular: the working time of 35 for all workers; the need to combat indeed precariousness, because precarious employment is precarious in the family and in life; the need to combat unregulated hours; the need to limit shiftwork and continuous work, because the dehumanization of working hours limits and prevents the link between working life, personal life and family life, making it impossible for mothers and working parents to accompany their children as they wish; and the need for general recognition of wages, from the national minimum wage to the €850, ensuring better living conditions for families, thus ensuring better living conditions for children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u25	It is also important to ensure the fulfilment of maternity and paternity rights, to put an end to attacks taking place, every day, in many businesses, in many workplaces, because maternity and paternity are seen by the employers as an obstacle and as a lower availability of workers to work. Atropelo and the denial of these rights to working parents and mothers is the abuse and denial of their children's rights, children's rights. The CFP has a vast heritage of intervention regarding the rights of motherhood and paternity and in the defense of children's rights. Important steps were taken in the last legislation, by action and intervention of the CFP, in particular with regard to family allowance in paragraph 4. the step up to 6 years; to the replacement of 4. the step in the prenatal allowance; the payment of 100 %, without penalties, of the maternity leave of pregnant workers exposed, at their workplace, to the risks harmful to their health and to that of the baby; the equalization of the licence for child care with disabilities to situations of chronic illness or cancer; and the right of the father to three work exemptions to accompany the pregnant woman to prenatal consultations. We know that there is a long way to deepen the rights of motherhood and paternity and to ensure better conditions for child follow-up. It is in this sense, without prejudice to the substantive and structural measures that are important and for which the CFP has proposals, that we present this initiative which provides for the reduction of the daily working time by 25 % to one of the parents, defending the best interests of the child and contributing to the fulfilment of the right of children to be accompanied by the parents, especially during the first three years of life. Finally, I will say that we are available for this discussion to be made and a solution can be found that effectively guarantees this right to children, because this is a right of children and, to that end, it is also necessary to guarantee the labour rights of working parents and working mothers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u26	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real from the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating, on behalf of the PAN Parliamentary Group, on the more than 15 000 petitioners who have submitted this petition, which aims to reduce working hours within two hours for the follow-up of children up to 3 years of age by one of the parents, this initiative is also of the Order of Physicians and is an important subject which brings us to the debate. We agree with the claims of the petitioners, because we consider it essential to establish strong relationships and ties between parents and the baby, who, by improving the mental health of the child, are particularly important in the early life of children. For this reason, the NAP has defended, including by presenting projects in this direction that have been rejected by this House, the extension of the initial parental leave of the current 120 or 150 days to 1 year, in which Portugal is far from the other European countries, given the enormous importance that this period has for the child and for the parents. In fact, the World Health Organization, in association with UNICEF ( United Nations Children's Fund ), has been undertaking a global effort to protect, promote and support breastfeeding by recommending that babies be breast-fed exclusively up to six months of life, continuing to be breast-fed at least until they reach the age of 2. The World Health Organization also recommends that this breastfeeding be made free of charge, that is, whenever the baby can feel will, a situation that is practically impossible in a scenario where the mother has to return to work. In Portugal, statistics show that the number of mothers to breastfeed decreases sharply after 4. o is 5. the baby's month of life, which corresponds to the time it has to return to work, not solving this problem the current breastfeeding license. We must not forget that, according to a report published last year, Portugal is in 14. the position of the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) ranking of countries that work most per year. In addition, through the use of computer or electronic means, we have been creating a culture of being "always connected" in recent years, seeing workers' lives contaminated by the pace of work, which enters through their lives, which invades them home, weekends and holidays, by telephone or e-mail. Overwork and the inability to disconnect promote an environment of permanent stress and exhaustion, making working people full-time, regretting what is their quality of life and time for the family. This high hourly burden has serious consequences in people's lives and in modern society parents are subjected to hallucinating work rhythms, with high professional requirements and times that are often extended beyond what is legal, and all this has contributed to parents having less and less time to be with their children, being times of rest and leisure and less and less quality, which demonstrates the importance of investing in measures aimed at improving the reconciliation between personal and family life and working life. We need measures to support births that strengthen children's rights and also women's rights, which end up being the ones most responsible for the family. In short, in this society, more and more abundant in goods and services, what is scarce is what we need most: time to live and time for the family. The Parliamentary Group of the NAP thus follows the claims of the petitioners, for both children and women have only to win with this claim, and we will therefore follow the bills presented today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u28	You now have the floor to Mrs Marta Freitas of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating the citizens and citizens who have subscribed to this petition, whose first subscriber was the Order of the Doctors. They require petitioners to be guaranteed by the Assembly of the Republic the right to reduce two hours daily in working hours, without the corresponding reduction of remuneration or loss of other royalties, to one of the parents of the child until the child reaches 3 years of age, for follow-up, whether or not breast-feeding. From now on, I congratulate the petitioners for the concern at generating comfort to families, parents and children, realizing the noble gesture through the petition, claiming that this dispensation, already enshrined in the Labour Code until 1 year of age, is extended until 3 years of age, and is now possible before breastfeeding, during the time it lasts. The Committee on Labour and Social Security in its analysis of this petition heard the Order of Physicians and the Portuguese Association of Women Jurists. The Portuguese Association of Legal Women expressed, through document, what I quote: "Considering that the petition does not take into account the dominant social practice, which assigns women the duty of caring for children for less than 3 years, it translates materially into a factual inequality between parents and mothers and it constitutes indirect discrimination, which can only be overcome if the intended reduction of working time is established as compulsory, intransmissible and distributed equally between both parents. Do not keep on seeking. ” It also states that « the petition in question violates the provisions of Article 1. that of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, therefore, in the view of that Organization, the claim should not be accepted. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Socialist Party has always defended and will continue to defend the strengthening of protection in parenthood, but always with the guarantee that the promotion of sharing these rights and responsibilities by parents is a fundamental condition for the promotion of gender equality. It is important to note that Portuguese parental protection legislation is internationally recognized for being a generous and protective legislation, already existing in the Labour Code the possibility of reducing hours for breastfeeding, without the limit imposed, or for breastfeeding up to 1 year of life of the baby, as well as flexibility of working hours- continuous or telework- for parents of children under the age of 12. On 1 October this year, i.e. a little more than a month ago, Law No 90 / 2019 came into force, which guarantees the significant strengthening of protection in parenthood and which was unanimously approved in this Plenary. In this way, the Socialist Party considers it important to consider and evaluate the socio-economic impact of these new changes to legislation that guarantees greater support for children in the first years of life and their families before promoting new changes. This unanimous assessment and opinion in this Chamber must always take into account the promotion of gender equality, as well as the need for reconciliation between professional, family and personal life and should be done in an extended way, including not only the Assembly of the Republic but also the social partners and civil society. I also recall that the Socialist Government has already committed itself to promoting, in the context of social dialogue, the discussion of an agreement for the promotion and reconciliation of family, professional and personal life.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u30	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u31	I'm done, Mr. President. I would therefore like to thank the petitioners again and ensure that the Socialist Party will continue to examine your claim and promote parental rights while promoting gender equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u32	Mrs. Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u33	Mr President, in my first speech in this Parliament, allow me to congratulate you and, in your own words, congratulate all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for an excellent mandate. I also welcome all those who ensure the proper and regular functioning of this House of Democracy. As regards the petition before us today, the PSD Parliamentary Group naturally welcomes its subscribers and heightens the civic concern that we have been subjected to and deserves our best attention. In fact, birth, childhood and family are a constant priority and concern of the PSD Parliamentary Group. That is why we have been presenting, during several legislatures, several legislative initiatives that favour birth through a policy favourable to maternity and childhood, with the sole purpose of combating the demographic winter that lives in Portugal. As regards the petition under consideration, as well as the legislative initiatives that have been scheduled for withdrawal, it should be recalled that labour legislation has been subject to successive and numerous changes by the Government and at the initiative of the various parliamentary groups. Now, as always, we defend legislative stability...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u35	... therefore, as is known, the ongoing legislative amendments promote instability in the legal order and undermine the principle of legal certainty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u36	When it's to change for the better, it's always okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u37	... given that they enhance the loss of public confidence in the law, with obvious repercussions on the economic and social development of the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u38	It's always the same bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u39	... because of the uncertainty that such instability provokes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u41	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is recalled that the Labour Code is about 10 years old and that we are now going to the tenth amendment. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP and ENP protests.]] But more than legislative stability, we argue that labour matters must be the subject of analysis and assessment within the framework of social dialogue. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The hearing of the social partners is extremely and absolutely fundamental in the context of labour forum matters, because they have the best perception of the balance and social concerns, balanced and weighed with the country's economic and social reality. For this reason, the PSD Parliamentary Group can now announce that it will present an initiative accompanying the concerns presented in this petition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u42	You're not going to propose the change of law, it's not to move the law, but now it's moving!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u43	With this initiative, it is intended, at the heart of social dialogue, with the involvement of the social partners, to define a set of family friendly policies, but also policies that favour and encourage competitiveness and employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u44	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u45	in this context, we defend the universalization of kindergartens and kindergartens, from 6 months to 5 years old, creating a national network of kindergartens and kindergartens tend to be free of charge.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u46	Is that an amendment to the law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u47	In fact, we are convinced that only with cross-border and structural measures is that the country can have a real strategy to combat low birth rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u48	Mrs. Deputy, I'll draw your attention again to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u49	I shall finish my speech, Mr President. in this sense, we hope that with due weighting and information that this theme requires, the initiative of the PSD Parliamentary Group will be able to invite the acceptance of this House. With this, we do not exempt ourselves from our legislative capacity, before we weigh it on and calibrate it with whom experience and live in the world of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u50	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u51	Therefore, the social partners can count on the PSD Parliamentary Group and Your Excellencys can count on the PSD initiative. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP and ENP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u52	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we now turn to Petition No 527 / XIII / 3. a ( Marta Oliveira et al.) — They request that the medical discharge for cancer patients be paid 100 %, together with Law Projects Nos 59 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Increased disease allowance for serious, chronic or cancer patients ( Sixth amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February ) and 63 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the disease allowance for tuberculosis, oncological disease and chronic disease ( Sixth amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 2004 ), in general, and Draft Resolution No 39 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create conditions for strengthening the protection of workers in the disease when it involves particularly serious economic circumstances. I begin by giving the floor to Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u53	Mr President, as you know, serious diseases, chronic diseases and cancers have serious personal consequences, from a professional and family point of view, with medical casualties that last for months, and sometimes up to years, and treatments that are often aggressive and incapacitating. That is why it becomes inappropriate for many people, especially for those with lower incomes—we know what is the characteristic of wages in Portugal—to survive with the current values of sick leave. The sickness allowance begins with 55 % of the worker's salary and goes up to 75 % at the end of one year. Only in a single case, tuberculosis, is that the income of work remains 100 % low per disease. It is paradoxical that it is precisely in a situation of prolonged illness, in which disabilities, disadvantages are greater and also needs, in which people have more costs and more costs, that people's income has a cut that often makes it difficult to manage their daily lives. The Block therefore welcomes the petitioners who have taken the initiative to bring this problem to the Assembly of the Republic and responds to this request with a legislative initiative that aims, precisely, to increase the benefit of disease in case of serious disease, chronic disease or cancer disease and also to establish minimum standards for the situations we are facing today, that is, people who, in situations of illness, see their compressed incomes at levels where it becomes very difficult to cope with daily. I hope that we will be able to respond to this problem in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u54	I now give the floor to Mr João Dias of the CFP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners who have signed this petition — 9248 petitioners and all those who, by their action and intervention, have been able to bring this very relevant petition to light today — that the CFP is perfectly accompanying. These petitioners request that the right of 100 % disease allowance be recognised for cancer patients. It is of the greatest and most fundamental justice that they do. The petitioners support this claim that oncological disease affects not only the sick person, such as the entire family structure at the most various levels, particularly at the financial level, even referring that the vulnerability to which they are subject throws them into a genuine financial precipice. The reality of the cancer patient is extremely complex: it has immediate repercussions on its life, on the life of the patient, from the moment it is announced and received the news, passing through the entire process of diagnosis and treatment. The cancer patient experiences situations of clear restriction of his physical and intellectual performance, naturally existing symptoms and situations of persistent tiredness, situations of limitation of his daily life activities, situations of physical distress that are present with very high intensity and that prevent them from being available for his work. They also add financial difficulties, difficulties not only due to reduced income due to the use of low medical care, but also due to increased spending on treatments, problems that worsen with even greater difficulty in maintaining or obtaining employment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the PCP, it is important that conditions of effective social protection of the cancer patient are created because their situation is so generating disability, disadvantage or even special needs. These conditions, we believe, should also be applied to the list of all chronic diseases that exist and which are recognised and validated by Portuguese legislation as well as in the case of tuberculosis. Therefore, we follow this petition with a bill that strengthens the disease allowance, recognizing the right to pay 100 % in the case of cancer disease, but also in the case of chronic diseases and tuberculosis. Whereas, in Portugal only in the case of tuberculosis, the possibility of granting sickness benefit to 100 % is admitted, even if it is subject to the number of dependents, the CFP understands that it is necessary to eliminate the cut in the maturity of those who are prevented from working. We're talking about absolutely in doubtable diseases as to your diagnosis, yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u56	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u57	I will finish, Mr. President. There is no doubt, in this case and in relation to these diseases, about their diagnosis, but also about the physical, psychological, emotional and even financial consequences that they represent. So, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the 100 % payment to the cancer patient, to the chronic patient and, at the same time, to the tuberculosis patient is of the most fundamental justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u58	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin by welcoming the petitioners who, through this initiative, have brought a window of opportunity to discuss today in this House the sickness benefit of cancer patients and chronic patients. This is a very important issue taking into account that, in Portugal today, these diseases have a high incidence, with a tendency to increase in the next few years, affecting, on a personal level, the patient and his family in an extremely serious way. According to data from the representative associations of people with chronic diseases, chronic incapacitating diseases now cover about 40 to 45 % of the total number of diseases reported in our country. In turn, data from the 2018 Health Portrait have shown that oncological diseases have had a large increase — about 3% per year — among the Portuguese population, and the second cause of death in Portugal. These are particularly painful diseases that bring a temporary impediment to work and an increase in health expenses. In the case of oncological diseases, studies have shown that, after the diagnosis, on average, an oncological patient and their family aggregate suffer an average annual loss of income amounting to €6500 per year, which results in a monthly loss of income to around €541. In the case of chronic diseases, these costs vary depending on the type of disease. However, recent studies show us, for example, that a patient with ankylosing spondylitis spends, on average, €1700 per year with the disease and lack of work 110 days. At the same time, and despite this general overview, the legal framework that we have for the disease allowance today only assigns these patients a disease allowance at a percentage ranging from 55 to 75 % of their reference remuneration. This means that a chronic or cancer patient who earns, for example, €951 — the average order in Portugal, marked in May of this year — will, in the best case of being down for more than 366 days, receive a disease allowance with a daily value of €23,78. However, it is evident that the legal framework of the disease allowance for chronic patients and cancer patients is insufficient and, in view of this data, it is clear that none of the political forces represented in the Assembly of the Republic may be indifferent or excluded from this discussion. In its electoral programme, the NAP, in addition to taking a position to increase public policies for the prevention of the disease, also undertook to fight for a measure of elementary social justice: a legislative amendment guaranteeing the remuneration of 100 % of the sickness allowance to workers whose disease causes particularly serious economic circumstances, including the high costs of treatment and medication and the weakness resulting from the cancer or chronic illness itself. Before we proceed to the debate, in particular, of proposals for amendments, however, we believe that it is appropriate to perceive, through a study prepared by the Government, all the impacts of a legislative amendment such as that contained in the Electoral Programme of the NAP and such as those that the Left Block and the CFP have brought to the discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u60	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u61	I really am concluding, Mr President. Only with the knowledge of specific numbers will it be possible to discuss realistically what measures can ensure greater social protection for chronic patients and for cancer patients. in this sense, we propose a technical report and that such study be delivered by the end of the first half of 2020. Given this, and in view of the social sensitivity of the issue, the NAP presents the present draft resolution...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u62	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u63	... greeting the petitioners in their claim. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u64	Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u65	I would like to congratulate Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me say that my first word is to greet the first petitioner, present here in the gallery, Marta Cláudia Matos Oliveira, and through it to greet the more than 23 500 subscribers of this petition who, in the exercise of their citizenship, brought to discussion a relevant topic: that the medical discharge for cancer patients be paid at 100 %. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Social Democratic Party people and their well-being are above all and at the heart of our concerns. We are sensitive to these issues and we are aware of the difficulties that cancer patients experience daily. We are aware that there is still a long way to go in these and other matters involving chronic and cancer patients, particularly with regard to the reconciliation of professional life with the reduction of capacity for work. We mean that, in the previous Parliament, a very positive work has been done here to protect these workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party is a responsible party and for us people are always first. We have no illusion of the infinite social state. We understand that we cannot run away from the inconvenience of discussing the issue, as some parties have done in this House, parties, those who had government responsibilities, such as the current government, and opportunity to decide and not decide. We cannot deny evidence and much less disguise the difficulties of the Portuguese social security system. in this as in other essential matters for people, we refuse to create false expectations for people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u66	It is not a matter of wanting, it is a matter of law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u67	... already fragile and sensitive because of the disease, knowing in advance that we are before an unknown and impossible universe to quantify. It is now up to the Socialist Party, one month from presenting the State Budget, to assess whether or not there is budgetary capacity to implement the measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u68	If I were to go to the bank, they'd approve!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u69	This is the appeal we make: we must be conscious and responsible. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr John Dias, the Social Democratic Party presented in the last Parliament a draft resolution recommending the creation of a possible committee to study and promote a reform of the public social security system and to evaluate and study the sustainability of social security, and at that time we could have studied these issues. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u70	Mr President, when we discuss these matters, we must not forget that we are talking about people...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u72	... that they have fought, or fought, against the disease, we speak of survivors who handle and live with the sequelae and with the marks caused by oncological disease, who stay for life. I would also like to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group understands the concerns of the petitioners...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u73	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the PSD Parliamentary Group understands the concerns of petitioners and will not fail to follow this matter closely in their committees, health and work, aware of the need for the change of this paradigm. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u75	I now give the floor to Mr Fernando José of the Socialist Party for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the 9248 subscribers of the petition which, with their civic action, have contributed to the enrichment of democracy, enhancing the debate on a sensitive issue that calls on us all to a careful analysis of the issues in question and which must be articulated and properly framed. In this regard, I would like to point out from the outset that chronic and oncological disease subsidies are exempt from IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and from contribution to social security, so the legislative initiatives under discussion translate into restrictive measures and that, if they are received, they would benefit those who have the most income. On the other hand, I mean that in the past legislation, positive action measures have been adopted in favour of the worker with oncological disease which are translated into Articles 85. o, 86. o is 87. Law No 93 / 2019. With this change to labour law, workers with cancer were guaranteed the same rights as workers with disabilities or chronic illness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u77	But more: in relation to parenthood, in the previous legislation, measures adopted under Law No 90 / 2019, which reinforces the rights of workers with disabilities, chronic illness or oncological disease and which not only reflect the increase in the period of leave but also the inherent subsidy may go up to the limit of four years. Here again, an amendment to Article 36 was adopted unanimously. the Decree-Law No 91 / 2009, which established the daily amount of allowance for assistance to children with disabilities, chronic illness or oncological disease in 65 % of the beneficiary's reference remuneration. As can be seen, in the previous legislation it was possible to make great progress. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Significant advances were made in the area of social protection of these workers, which were the result of a careful and intensive analysis of the discussion and adoption of measures that led to changes in the legislation in the areas of work and social protection, which had, of course, impacts on social security, but did not question their sustainability. However, without any basis to quantify the impact of these initiatives, and taking into account the importance of the legislative stability of measures which have recently entered into force, and because these measures must be framed in a joint manner and in the same time area, we cannot follow the proposals of the Left Block, the Communist Party and the NAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u78	We are now following to the next item on the agenda, the petition...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u79	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u80	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u81	Mr President, if I may, as we still have time available, I would like to write to Mr José Soeiro to make a second intervention under this third point.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u82	All right. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I noted that the PSD and PS referred to the approval in the previous Parliament of the proposals of the Block to amend the Labour Code. And they were important proposals to ensure greater protection for workers with cancer. However, now we are not discussing these proposals, we are discussing sickness benefit and its value. That is the object of the petition. The proposal we make today is a proposal that we have already had the opportunity to discuss in the past. We are talking about increasing the disease allowance, which today goes from 55% to 75% of the income, and ensuring one basic thing: that there is no worker who is sick, who is sick and who has a serious, cancerous or chronic disease that wins, in disease situations, less than the national minimum wage, as is the case today. I would like to ask the Socialist Party what is the argument to refuse this sensible proposal: no worker with serious, cancer or chronic illness should, when he is ill, receive less than the national minimum wage. There is no reason to chum this proposal. There is no reason to understand this proposal. The PSD speaks to us in the infinite social state. We are not talking about an infinite social state, we are talking about a question of basic justice and a sickness allowance for which workers have discounted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u84	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u85	I shall conclude by saying that the proposals for a study and technical report or the establishment of a committee, respectively, of the NAP and the PSD, seem, in fact, more pretexts for delaying a decision which this Parliament can take today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u86	We now move on to the fourth point of the agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 530 / XIII / 3. a (Ricario Filipe Madeira Simões et al.) — They request legislative amendment to establish the legal presumption of alternative residence for children with separate parents. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We begin by greeting and thanking the more than 4000 people who have brought their voice to the Assembly of the Republic through this petition. The NAP recognizes the high importance of this issue and, for this reason, we have drawn up a bill where our position on alternative residence is clear. However, we believe that the debate in this area should be going on with a wider grid of times, where we expect all parties to intervene. The debate on this matter then takes place in the XIV legislature with the discussion of this petition, reiterating the commitment that we will schedule the draft law of the NAP as soon as possible. With regard to this matter, we believe that the alternative residence model should be privileged, where this corresponds to the best interests of the child and, as such, it should be duly safeguarded that it cannot be applied to cases where child abuse, neglect or domestic violence are recorded. These concerns are also expressed by the people who sign this petition and that is what we defend in our bill. The current legal framework demonstrates a notorious inequality and even prejudice in the exercise of parental responsibilities. The most current case-law has suggested that alternative residence should be the first option, having the understanding that the figure of the "weekend father" is no longer accepted by society and that participation in the life of children in equal circumstances is required. in an opinion on this subject, the Attorney-General of the Republic maintains that a legislative amendment to promote alternative residence should occur as a « preferential regime ». By 2015, the Council of Europe urged Member States to take on alternate residence in their legal order and countries such as Belgium, France, the Netherlands or Sweden, among others, have already enacted such legislation. In the countries that have done so, there seems to be an exponential decrease in family conflicts, because this model promotes cooperation behaviors. There are already several scientific studies that demonstrate that this model better meets the physical, psychological, emotional and social needs of children, since it has been evaluated casuistically, ensuring greater equality in parental involvement and promoting a better articulation between work and the family, which is decisive in the increase in social well-being. It must therefore be included in the parental responsibilities of separate or divorced couples to that of alternate residence, which must be placed, from then on, as a possibility, with the need to assess cases on a case-by-case basis, listening to parents, mothers and children. Portuguese families and gender roles have become, so parents or mothers reconcile their occupations with their parental responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u88	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. in this particular area, families are, possibly, more ahead of the legislative framework, and therefore we urgently need to follow up. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u90	I now give the floor to Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am not going to elaborate on the petition you have entered here, because what matters, indeed, is the problem that has been raised and that concerns the regulation of parental responsibilities and specifically the residency solutions of the child in a situation of divorce, judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage. This is a debate that cannot be held without considering the principle of gender equality, but also, above all, the principle of the best interests of the child. Indeed, and always on the basis of the demands of the feminist struggle for the consecration of gender equality, it is also important to consider that, in this kind of situation, the balance between the interests of parents and the rights of children is not always evident or easy to ensure. For this reason, we believe that any decision on the system of parental responsibilities or the model of residence of children should always be guided by the search for a response that best satisfies the balance between the principle of gender equality and the solution that best responds to the child's specific needs and that best fulfils the objective of developing all its potential and capacities, with a view to its balanced and harmonious integration into the family and society. As it is certain that the contact of children with parents and mothers should be stimulated and increased and that the alternative residence regime, with both, allows for a more equitable coexistence and therefore a sharing of more balanced and more equal parental responsibilities, its application should, however, be guided by a set of safeguards. First, it must be guided by a set of safeguards to ensure the physical and moral integrity of women and children, particularly in situations of domestic violence. We bear in mind the scale of violence against women in Portugal, whose maximum expression is reflected in the black numbers of femicides; we bear in mind that separation processes often end lives of violence on women and children. Secondly, we believe that the right of the child to be heard must be guaranteed, i.e. the right, which is already legally enshrined, of the child to be heard on all decisions which concern him. And finally, we believe that it should still be ensured that shared custody or alternative residence cannot serve as an excuse to avoid the duty to provide food imposed by law or by agreements previously established. This is the contribution of the Left Block to this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u92	I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe of the CFP for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a very relevant issue. In fact, it was in the past that you brought into the Bureau the petition we are now discussing, having been the subject of a report and an opinion drawn up under 1. the Commission. This is an issue that has been discussed for quite a long time in the Assembly of the Republic, whose debate will obviously not end now, insofar as there are legislative initiatives on this subject, there will be the appropriate time and time for a decision to be taken, if appropriate. What we wanted to say right now is that we understand the invaluable reasons that will lead petitioners to present this initiative to the Assembly of the Republic. Regarding the situation of minors in the face of divorce or separation from their parents, we will all agree that what should be considered first and what the law requires is that the best interests of the child be taken into account first. In view of this, what would be desirable is that there was a situation as less conflictal as possible, namely, the option for joint custody and within it it it would be possible to opt for alternate residence. We understand this, but what we think is that Portuguese legislation has already fully contemplated this possibility. Today, the judges will be in a position to make a decision that takes the best interests of the child into account. It would be desirable for the best interests of the child to pass through alternate residence; we simply have to consider that it may not be so and that there will be situations in which it is not so and, in this case, it should be left to the legislator, who is impartial and takes into account the best interests of the child, the choice for the best solution, taking into account precisely that higher interest. We can understand the reasons of parents who want, legitimately and humanly, to have greater proximity with their children in the event of divorce and separation, but we must also recognize that there may be situations where this legitimate interest of parents does not correspond exactly to the best interests of the child, especially for reasons of geographical distance regarding the residence of the parents and, of course, it is also important to care for the well-being and life of the child itself. in this case, it seems to us that it would be excessive to fear that the legislator would take an impossive position for the judge, until it is recognized that today there is a case-law that is frankly favourable to alternative residence, that is how things should work, that means that there is sensitivity of judges to opt for alternative residence whenever this is considered justified, taking into account the best interests of the child, which is what should move us. Therefore, the position we have is understanding and openness, but given that the legislator must be left with the necessary margin of decision so that the best interests of the child can be, above all, safeguarded. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u94	Mrs Joana Sá Pereira of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us, of course, begin by welcoming the petitioners and highlighting the interest of the petition they subscribe to, recognizing the relevance of the problem and, above all, the values they deserve protection. For this reason, the Socialist Party also presented, in the previous legislature, a bill that responds in a balanced way to the promotion of alternative residence as a preferential form of exercise of parental responsibilities. We understand that alternative residence may take care of two important interests in question: firstly, the best interest of the child, which is the primary interest in defining parental responsibilities, but also the constitutionally guaranteed interest of each parent can participate in the life and education of his or her children. The Socialist Party argues that it is absolutely necessary to incorporate into the Civil Code the expression expressed to the possibility of alternate residence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party also believes that it is essential to define preference for the establishment of this regime, as well as clarification that the mutual agreement of parents is not necessary for this decision. But the draft law submitted by the Socialist Party does not fail to respect the necessary autonomy of the judge to opt for a different regime when the circumstances of the specific case require it, as well as to determine the concrete terms in which this same alternance is carried out. from this autonomy we can never abdicate. We therefore accompany the concern of the petitioners to ensure the express prediction of the possibility of alternative residence, but we show, however, that this should not be an obligation as a starting point. This should be a possibility that, in the circumstances of a particular case, it is the best interest of the child on the one hand and, on the other, the right that each parent has to participate in the life and education of his or her children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this reason, the Socialist Party will once again present in this Parliament a bill showing that the establishment of alternative residence, as a principle, is absolutely essential to bring the child closer to the model that existed before family separation. Only in this way can we ensure that each parent can continue to exercise the rights and obligations inherent in parental responsibilities, but also the possibility to monitor and participate equally in the process of growth and development of their children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u96	I now give the floor to Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President, whom I welcome. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my democratic greetings to all, in this which is my first intervention in this House, which is the House of All. This is an important subject for all of us. It is a matter for the PSD Parliamentary Group. Today, in Parliament, we are discussing a petition submitted by the Portuguese Association for Parental Equality and signed by 4169 citizens, whose initiative I now welcome and which calls for the amendment to the Civil Code to establish the legal presumption of alternative residence for children whose parents are separated. By analysing the existing legislative framework, we have found that the same allows, already encourages, in the procedures for regulating parental responsibilities, the alternative residence of the child, by agreement between the parties or, in the absence of the child, by court decision. Current Article 1906 ( 7 ). the Civil Code expressly states that "the court shall always decide in harmony with the interests of the child, including that of maintaining a close relationship with the two parents, promoting and accepting agreements or taking decisions that favour broad opportunities of contact with them and sharing responsibilities between them." The general regime of the Cable Protection Process also enshrines the primacy of the best interests of the child, imposing on the courts that they always decide in accordance with this principle. It follows from the judicial decisions that have been given, either at the moment of provisional fixation of parental responsibilities, either in the final fixation, that alternative residence is increasingly the rule applied, and that, according to the parties, such arrangements can always be established. As we praise the concern expressed in the petition, however, we believe that establishing a legal presumption, with all that this entails, in favour of alternative residence will excessively burden parents and children whose reality discourages and even prevents that alternance from being fixed, imposing them, in an intolerable way, the demonstration to the court that such legal presumption is harmful to them, having to circumvent it. This alone, in addition to boosting conflicts between the parties, will deprotect children and parents who are victims of domestic violence and sexual abuse or any other harmful family contexts in the healthy and harmonious development of the child. It should be noted that when the court establishes a provisional system of parental responsibilities it does not normally have, except in cases where there is intervention by CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth), any elements which enable it to decide with the security that the life of children requires and imposes. Thus, the legal consecration of such legal presumption does not appear prudent because it disregards the best interests of the child. However, the petitioners' initiative is praised, stressing that it is never too much to strengthen the right that children have to grow up with their parents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u98	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u99	... being, therefore, the PSD Parliamentary Group available to frame any clarifying initiative that is necessary to carry out in such a way that the courts establish the alternative residency regime whenever this corresponds to the best interests of the child, and it is not in this interest to fix a legal presumption. What moves us is the child's interest, being intolerable any suffering imposed upon him. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u100	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are now considering the last request of this plenary session, Petition No 532 / XIII / 3. a ( José Vieira Lourenço et al.) — They request that the motherhood of Coimbra be integrated in the space of the Hospital dos Covões, together with the Resolutions 23 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the location of the future neonatology and care unit in pregnancy and delivery of Coimbra on the grounds adjacent to the Hospital dos Covões, 29 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Implementation of the new motherhood of Coimbra on the campus of General Hospital ( Covões ) and 48 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the construction of a new motherhood in Coimbra to cover the number of births of current maternity and is located at the General Hospital of Coimbra. Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the petitioners and the Citizens' Movement for Coimbra for dynamizing a petition that gave voice to the common sense and the sense of the right for Coimbra and its region. Coimbra has two maternity units that have been reference units in the service to the entire Centre region. in these two units, the clinical teams of the specialty are aged and, therefore, the first requirement is to provide these two maternity units, currently existing, with human, technical and physical conditions to continue to be what have been: units of excellence in obstetric, gynecological and neonatal care. For now, the new motherhood in Coimbra is a PowerPoint and Coimbra has been entertained too often, too long, with PowerPoint presentations by successive national and municipal governments. We therefore take care as an absolute priority of what we have, of what we exist. But it is the decisions that we now make that will definitely shape the evil or the good that we will have in the future. And Coimbra has two highly differentiated hospital poles: its fusion "to hammer" in the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra hyperconcentrated valences and services in one pole and emptied the other, wasting knowledge, wasting resources, wasting response capacity. The questions are: are we going to insist on this error, that we do not properly value the excellent hospital equipment that Coimbra and the Centre region have, by degrading both, one by hyperconcentration and another by emptying? Are we going to allow more traffic flow to be channeled to the one that is one of the most currently punished areas of the city, precisely by the influx of people and vehicles? The Left Block takes a clear answer to these two questions. We do not hide behind technical studies commissioned to disguise the lack of political determination. We present a draft resolution, which recommends to the Government, clearly, that the location of the future care unit in pregnancy and childbirth and neonatal care be within the perimeter of the Central Hospital of Covões. There's no way to escape a clear choice. from here on, we'll see who takes a clear choice and who invents subterfuges to pretend he doesn't choose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u102	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, a greeting that I want to extend to the citizen movement by Coimbra, who has dynamized and promoted it. As a first note, I would like to say that the Greens fully follow the concerns of the petitioners and the purposes expressed in the petition, which, moreover, led us to present a legislative initiative which, we believe, goes to meet the objective of the thousands of citizens who, very clearly, say that they do not want Coimbra's motherhood in the spaces of the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra. As the petitioners point out, and in our view, the result of the excess concentration of services and people in the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra are known and are seen in a very clear way. Above all, with a concentration of services far beyond what was initially planned, which is certainly calling into question the quality and efficiency of the services provided. In addition, it is also necessary to take into account mobility issues, since accesses do not give an answer today, nor do they even see objective conditions which, in the future, can ensure an adequate response, which means that the location of maternity within the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra would represent a real chaos in terms of mobility. And if there are services in which mobility has to be assumed as a central element of the equation when we talk about the location, these services are, of course, and for the reasons we all know, the services of a motherhood. Furthermore, in the area of Covões Hospital, there are services and facilities, as well as the possibility of construction and the environmental framework to accommodate equipment with the size of a motherhood. Now, since the Hospital dos Covões has been over time emptied of services, finally because it has concentrated everything in the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra, the installation of the motherhood of Coimbra in this hospital would represent the solution for two problems. On the one hand, chaos was avoided in terms of access to the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra and, at the same time, the provision of services at the Hospital dos Covões. These are also the assumptions that led The Greens to present the legislative initiative that we are now also discussing and which basically proposes to the Government to undertake studies and initiate the process of implementing the new motherhood of Coimbra within the hospital of Coimbra, which builds the new maternity without recourse to any public-private partnership, which strengthens the Hospital of Covões with the necessary means and valences to meet the needs of the new motherhood of Coimbra, from the beginning the reopening of the emergencies at night and, finally, to ensure the quality of the service in the Matos Bisssaya Barreto and Daniel Matos Matos Matos Matos Matos Mats Mats Mats Mats, providing adequate human resources and equipment for maintenance of their facilities until the construction of the new motherhood of Coimbra. Therefore, I also believe, as Mr José Manuel Pureza said, that we will then see whether the concerns that will now be expressed in this discussion will be materialized when we vote. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u104	Four budgets and they didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u105	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin by greeting the petitioners, the users of the Coimbra maternity wards and all the professionals who, over the decades, have contributed, dedicated and generously, to the provision of excellent care in the Matos and Bissaya Barreto Motherhoods, despite the chronic underfunding and bleeding of valences to which they were subjected. The CFP has long denounced the asphyxiation of workers and material resources that these maternity hospitals have suffered. If the construction of a new motherhood in Coimbra, which is modern, which has all the conditions of comfort and work, is absolutely desirable, we also know that in these things «cold cat of cold water is afraid». It is necessary to remember past processes so that errors do not repeat, namely the severe merger of the eight hospitals of Coimbra in the Hospital and University Centre of Coimbra, the CHUC, a process that has brought great difficulties of operation, of service response, which has brought about overcrowding, immense difficulties in the circulation of the city—it is a nightmare of that roundabout of hospitals—, parking difficulties, finally, a series of difficulties every day of users, populations and workers. Therefore, we say that the following criterion cannot be the one who presided at the merger of hospitals, just as there must be absolutely no temptation for public-private partnerships. The following criterion must be that of valuing public services and the National Health Service. For all this reason, the CFP considers that the Government must construct a new motherhood in Coimbra that covers the number of births of the current units and that it is located, yes, at the General Hospital of Coimbra. Until the construction of the root of this new motherhood, what cannot happen is forgetfulness and incuria in relation to what still exists. Therefore, it is urgent that the interventions and the works of benefit that these units lack, through their degradation, and ensure their quality and safety, be carried out in the Matos and Bissaya Barreto Matos Matos Maternities, which unfortunately still occur in these units and which are given all the conditions for these professionals to develop their work, providing maximum comfort and quality to all users. Finally, the CFP argues that the time-bound, informed and broad involvement of stakeholders must be guaranteed, with all transparency. Users, populations, workers and their representative organizations must be seen, found, consulted in the decision-making background that affect the current model of motherhood functioning in Coimbra. This is what the Portuguese Communist Party defends with this draft resolution — a new motherhood located at the General Hospital of the Covãos. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u107	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Gouveia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition and the three draft resolutions under discussion, which we use to greet, in our view, raise a set of interrelated issues. Of course, fulfilling-CL will try to explain our understanding of them. Concretely, we believe that the Covão Hospital can no longer be the object of any kind of dismantling. On the contrary, it should be able to ensure a panoply of essential health responses. To this end, it is imperative to bet on the pursuit of an investment programme that can effectively use its capacity. We also consider that the Motherhoods Bissaya Barreto and Daniel de Matos have a story that speaks for themselves. But, clearly, an adequate future response is required as time evolves. However, until a new response comes into effect, which will not be immediately occurring, these two maternity wards will continue to ensure the response of the SNS (National Health Service) to the current needs framework, close to 5000 births per year. It is therefore also necessary to pursue investments in them, in particular in the acquisition of new equipment and in the appropriate strengthening of their professional framework. This factual reality more than warrants that investment in a new response of neonatology and obstetrics in Coimbra has been assumed by the Government of Portugal in the previous legislation as a national priority, in fact, is relevant, with the agreement of all political forces. With regard to the question of its location, after one, already long, period in which there was the collection of numerous opinions and recommendations, the conduct of various forums and debates, the public disclosure of the positions of various entities and, to which everything indicates, being at the stage of completion of the studies requested at the National School of Public Health, it seems to us that, within a short period, it is expected that the political decision on location, as we all wish, will be taken, will be credible and responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u109	Mr António Maló de Abreu, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are before a petition and three draft resolutions that request and recommend that the motherhood of Coimbra be integrated in the space of the Hospital dos Covões. In Coimbra, there are two maternity hospitals, whose merger, due to the creation of a new one, has long been justified. In 2016, it was announced that the Government had authorized the commencement of the construction of maternity and assumed that the competition for the work would be launched at the end of 2017. But today, over so many years and so many others have lost, the political decision-making process has not yet been completed and is at an impasse that is detrimental to the whole region. In other words, more than that: pushing decisions to calendars is a government brand. It is not to ask those who perform public functions to set an example, honoring the given word, and not its opposite, repeatedly and insistently. It is like this with the new motherhood of Coimbra, with the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, with the construction of the new hospital of the Algarve, as it is with the new hospital of Funchal. But the truth is that this attitude of laziness, without looking forward, increasingly compromises the National Health Service itself. In other words, more than that: the degradation of public services and the SNS in particular is a mark already registered by the previous government that it promises to patent. We therefore address to the Government a number of questions that require urgent answers. Because life is made of phases, or you do or don't. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] And the government we have is to do what it does, but it does not! When you don't back off! [[PSD applause.]] The PSD defends a new motherhood in Coimbra. Bridge!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u111	And...?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u112	But the PSD also argues that it must be the government, on the basis of technical criteria, to decide its location.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u113	Either you do or you don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u114	Now! Because everyone's responsibilities, and this is all, and only, of the government. Mr President, because we are just this which matters: better serving people and solving their problems. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u115	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u116	I still hope for a gesture or an attitude that makes Coimbra justice! A city holds everything until the day it demands its dignity back. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u117	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners and accompanying the legitimate concerns around the new motherhood of Coimbra. Coimbra plays a truly preponderant role in this region of the country and must be equipped, in quantity and quality, with the necessary equipment and means, human and material, for the provision of quality health care. And it is precisely because we consider that quality and safety in the provision of health care should be a priority that we believe that the location of the new maternity should be the one that best guarantees the safety, protection and respect for pregnant women, pregnant women, pregnant women, newborns and families. We are naturally sensitive to the arguments that note the congestion and the difficulties verified at the level of mobility and accessibility in the area surrounding the Hospital Center of the University of Coimbra, which alone can affect the quality of the medical services provided. The NAP is then, and of course, available to work towards finding the best solution for Coimbra and the Centre region, and, in the face of all studies carried out, it is time to hold a public final session where the conclusions are disclosed and actually start implementing them. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u119	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint debate of Petition No 532 / XIII / 3. a and the Resolution Projects Nos 23 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 29 / XIV / 1 a (PEV) and 48 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), we move on to the next point of our work, to which no discussion time has been assigned, and which is contained in the Report and Management Account of the Assembly of the Republic for the year 2018. We shall therefore enter the voting period, which is the last item on today's agenda. First of all, we will check the quorum, so I ask the services that prepare the electronic system so that we can register and then vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 211 presences, to which 2 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Mr. Carlos Peixoto, from the PSD, and Mr. Mariana Mortágua, from BE, which makes 213 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum for deliberation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u120	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to speak to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u121	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u122	Mr President, of course not having the Bureau another option, I would just like to say that it seems to me that we will then vote more than 35 votes on more than 10 items. The CDS will propose a regulatory amendment, because it believes that this way of conducting the discussions is not the best. But of course, in view of the current Rules of Procedure, the Bureau has no other option.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u123	As the honourable Member knows, it was combined in the last Parliament that all votes, before being presented in plenary, would go down to the committees to see how much it would be possible to merge some and withdraw others, and that was what it was done. Only it was not possible to reach consensus, so the Bureau must lean towards this lack of consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u124	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u125	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u126	Mr President, it is only to inform that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, who recently had no opportunity to register, is already in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u127	All right, Mr. Deputies. That being the case, 214 are present. Ladies and gentlemen. We begin with Vote No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by BE ) — I regret the death of Paulo Guajajara. I ask Secretary Nelson Peralta to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Paulo Paulino Guajajara, a member of the Guajajara tribe and known as one of the « Guardians of the Forest », a group of indigenous people dedicated to protecting the Amazon forest from environmental destruction, was murdered last November 1 by armed carpenters who invaded the indigenous lands of Arariboia, in the Brazilian state of Maranhão. Consejo was also Laércio Guajajara, another leader of the same tribe, who, although shot with two shots, one in his arm and one in his back, managed to escape the ambush. A recent report by the Brazilian Indigenous Missionary Council shows that between January and September 2019 160 cases of invasion of 153 indigenous lands from 19 Brazilian federal states were recorded, twice the numbers recorded in 2018. According to Francisco Gonçalves, Secretary of State for Human Rights and Popular Participation of Maranhão, this dramatic increase in violence against indigenous communities and invasions of indigenous territories, which, in this case, resulted in the death of Paulo Guajajara, is the result of the stance adopted by the recent Brazilian Government:‘ Conflicts are decades, but have worsened this year with the dismantling of federal bodies and the abandonment of policies of protection to indigenous peoples. The belligerent and hate speech that the Bolsonaro government passes to the criminal groups works as a safe haven to enter indigenous lands. ’ In view of these circumstances, and in view of the importance of defending indigenous rights in order to ensure, at the same time, the protection of environmental rights relating to the Amazon region, this Assembly of the Republic cannot exempt itself from paying its regret to the murder of Paulino Guajajara and other indigenous peoples. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret over the murder of Paulino Guajajara and conveys its condolences to the Brazilian people and their families. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and L, votes against CH and abstention from PSD.]] We now pass to Vote No. 36 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — I regret the death of Manuel Jorge Veloso. I call on Mrs Ana Mesquita to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u130	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Manuel Jorge Souto Sousa Veloso, communist militant, musician, composer, radio director, music and television critic, chronicler, pioneer of TV and jazz in Portugal, died last Wednesday, in Lisbon, at 82 years. With classical musical training, he was a founding member of the Hot Club Quartet of Portugal, the first Portuguese group with exclusive and regular jazz activity. He joined Dexter Gordon's Quartet at the I International Jazz Festival of Cascais, having played with numerous Portuguese and foreign jazz musicians. On television, between 1958 and 1971, he was the producer of classical music and jazz programs at the RTP, where he later became a member of the Commission Program Directive and Head of the Music Programs Department. He was also production assistant of the O Popo que Canta series ( Michel Giacometti ). On the radio, he wrote and presented various jazz programs on the ex-EN, ex-RCP, RR and RDP ( Antenna 2 ). In the cinema, he composed the music for the long films Belarmino and Una Abelha in the Rain ( Fernando Lopes ) and Pedro Solo ( Alfredo Trope) and for about a dozen short films by Fernando Lopes, Faria de Almeida and António Macedo. He was a professor at the National Conservatory Film School, a record producer, translator, coordinator and author. He wrote jazz outreach articles in several newspapers and magazines, regularly held jazz conferences, wrote notes for jazz concert room sheets, and was the author of The Jazz Site blog. He was a member of the Portuguese Musical Youth and Secretary General of the Academy of Music Amateurs. PCP Militant, integrated the Avante's editorial! and was part of the Front Party Show Commission! where it had a decisive role in the design and organization of classical music nights in jazz programming. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on November 15, 2019, expresses its regret at the death of Manuel Jorge Veloso and sends his family sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u131	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 17 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — Of solidarity and regret for the serious insecurity situation facing our community in Venezuela and for the murder of five more national citizens. To proceed to your reading, you have the floor of Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In the last 10 days, five more national citizens have been murdered in Venezuela. In several attacks in the localities of Los Teques, San Vicente and Mariche, in the area of Caracas, two couples and another citizen, victims of violent crime, continue to increase in this country of South America. The economic activities dedicated to a large number of members of our community, in the area of trade and the distribution of food, make them especially exposed to the action of armed groups, which remain extremely active throughout the country. The generalization of this climate of insecurity, the lack of action by the security forces and the serious economic conditions seriously call into question the conditions of subsistence of a large part of the members of our community, who, more than ever, need close monitoring by our Government and our diplomatic authorities accredited to Venezuela. in this regard, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, decides: 1 — To adopt a vote of solidarity to the Portuguese community in Venezuela due to the serious situation in which it continues to live, as a result of the very delicate political, economic and social crisis in Venezuela; 2 — To express concern for the families of the national citizens murdered in this country in recent days; 3 — Call on the Portuguese Government to adopt an integrated plan of support for our community and to increase the capacity of our diplomatic structures in Venezuela to reduce the serious effects of the crime wave there.’
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL, the votes against the CFP and the abstentions of the ENP and the L.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 22 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of regret and solidarity for the murder of four Portuguesemen during the last week in Venezuela. As a vote with the same aim as the previous one, I recall the fair words that the President of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group recently said.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u134	Mr. President, we can defer reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u135	All right. At the end of the reading, we shall proceed to the vote on this vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and the L abstention.]] The following vote No 35 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — We regret the murder of four Portuguese citizens in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u136	Mr President, we also dispensed with reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u137	All right. At the end of the reading, we shall then vote on this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, let us therefore keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u138	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u139	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u140	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u141	Mr President, it is in order to announce that the CDS has fulfilled its tradition of voting in favour of the vote on regrets, but we will present a statement of vote on vote No 9 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u142	All right. We're waiting, Mrs. Member. We turn to the vote on vote No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the NAP ) — Congratulations on the success of the third humanitarian surgical mission to support Syrian refugee children in Jordan, led by the cardiothoracic surgeon Professor Manuel Antunes. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for Vote No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — Congratulating on the success of the humanitarian mission of the Centre de Medicina Cardiothoracica do Centro Hospitalar Universitário de Coimbra, led by Professor Manuel Antunes, Jordan. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u143	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u144	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u145	It is in order to draw the attention of Mr President to the fact that neither these votes concerning cardiothoracic surgeons were possible to find an understanding in the Commission and two votes were adopted rigorously equal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. I've already given that, and I hope all parties will see that it doesn't make any sense. It is not even a political issue, it is a matter of minimal common sense. We turn to the vote on vote No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the NAP ) — Greetings for the award of the 2019 Sakharov Prize to Ilham Tohti and condemnation of systematic violations of the rights of Uighure minorities in China. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, NAP, CH, IL and L, votes against the PCP and the ENP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u147	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u148	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u149	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u150	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We passed to Vote No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the IL ) — Welcoming the approval by the European Parliament of Resolution 2019 / 2819, condemning the totalitarian regimes of fascism and communism and recalling its victims. With regard to this vote, it was decided to allocate 2 minutes for each parliamentary group to intervene, so it will be done. First of all, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor of the CDS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Worse than the voting method is the parties do not even have the possibility to explain the reasons why they present the various votes. In fact, this vote was taken from the Liberal Initiative, but the CDS also voted on this issue, and I would therefore like to leave two very clear ideas, Mr President. Firstly, with regard to the various votes on international matters, the CDS will have a unique criterion, which is that of human rights and the rule of democratic law. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] We will not vote in any way or in any other way if it comes to « tiranetes» friends of Latin America, whether they are Castro, Morales or Mature, or depending on whether they are right-wing or middle-right rulers. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Don't! The violation of human rights is always unacceptable. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD and IL.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, I would like to say that this vote is very important because it is the memory. As Todorov said, in totalitarianism, life loses against death, but memory is winning its fight against nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u153	This is very important, even because there are no good or less bad totalitarian regimes and worse or worse totalitarian regimes. All totalitarianism is unacceptable, and that is why these regimes correspond to millions of dead — millions of dead! — millions of deaths of Nazism and fascism, more than 100 million deaths determined by Soviet-inspired communism and then by Chinese-inspired. There's no good and bad here. For us, it is indifferent to being Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin, Mao Tsé-Tung, Pol Pot, Kim Jong-il, a serious and numerous set of murderers who deserve condemnation in the name of memory. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u154	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u155	I'm done, Mr. President. We will therefore vote in favour of all the votes that go so far, noting that in the end there are some who prefer to condemn the resurgence of neo-fascism more...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u156	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u157	... and others who prefer to condemn further the resurgence of neo-communism, as Mr André Ventura does.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u158	Mr President, I ask you to conclude. He had two minutes and he's out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u159	We will all vote in favour, except those who demonstrate that History can always turn into comedy, as happens with the vote of the PCP. I'm done, Mr. President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u160	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Maló de Abreu.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption by the European Parliament on 19 September of the Resolution on the importance of European memory for the future of Europe is, above all, a contribution to ensuring that history is not forgotten and to remind all those who have suffered the atrocities committed by European totalitarianism. It is obvious that we must, as the Resolution does, condemn all acts of aggression, condemn the practice of crimes against humanity and human rights violations carried out by totalitarian regimes over the 20th century and seek to create a better future for all Europeans, not forgetting or even hiding, but rather learning from the mistakes committed in the past and in respect for all those who have fallen into the hands of totalitarian regimes. And there's no good or bad! For the PSD Parliamentary Group, it is essential that the conditions in the European space be consolidated so as to prevent any rebirth of ideologies and practices which, based on hatred and violence, seek to impose their views on society, as has happened with fascism, Nazism or Communism. It is clear to us that the values of democracy, equality, freedom and respect for human rights, which are in the genesis of European construction, should be guiding principles for the future of the European Union. Unfortunately, in recent years we have all seen phenomena that are going contrary, with populism and, above all, radicalisms finding ever more space to assert themselves in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u162	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u163	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is not hiding the past that confronts and solves the problems of the present or that better prepares for the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u164	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It will become increasingly clear that the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, being successors of the PSD and the CDS, are more reactionary substitutes, with more antidemocratic concepts,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u166	... and it becomes increasingly clear that the PSD and CDS are making the option to cover over the most reactionary and antidemocratic character of these its successors. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u167	A communist talking about democracy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u168	It is truly remarkable that they do this about one of the best known whitening operations of fascism and Nazism, which is precisely the equality between Nazism and fascism to those who gave them the firmest fight. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Moreover, it is natural for Mr Telmo Correia to make an intervention like that which he has done, which would certainly be reproduced by the honourable Member of the Arrival and by the honourable Member of the Liberal Initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u170	... because they do not count, in their ranks, with people with tradition of anti-fascist struggle, who have resisted fascism in Portugal, such as those who are in the ranks of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u171	Exactly! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u172	Tell me about communism!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u173	Talk about over 100 million dead!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u174	Over 100 million dead!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u175	Therefore, it is natural that a party like the PCP, which, moreover, set the example with the lives of many of its militants so that Portugal could conquer freedom and democracy with the Revolution of 25 April 1974,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u176	On communism, not a word!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u177	... can't help but denounce the whitening operation... [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u178	It's about communism and it's not talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u179	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to allow the speaker to intervene, as the CFP bench did in relation to the other speakers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u180	Don't worry, Mr. President. For 48 years we did not let ourselves be disturbed by the aggressiveness of the fascists and it is not now that we will let ourselves be disturbed by the aggressiveness of these people! [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I wanted to say that a party like the PCP, which has in its ranks examples of people who have given their lives in the struggle for freedom and democracy,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Counterprotests by PCP MP João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u181	Look at Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u182	... naturally assumes the same firm, resistant and confident position that the Portuguese people must be able to put those who seek to whiten out fascism and Nazism with such positions and resolutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u183	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u184	...in the trash can of history, because this is the place for people to hand you over. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u185	They're out of memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u186	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Telmo Correia began by recognizing that now the guide to the CDS is the Liberal Initiative. I believe that this recognition demonstrates well what is reduced by the CDS, by its own choice, its own responsibilities, but also shows — poor CDS! — what it is and what it is right now. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Choose yours! And I'm just and just playing the political bottle and the lighthouse that now illuminates the fate of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u188	There's a difference, I'm not liberal! That's it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u189	But we fully realize that both what has been voted on in the European Parliament and what is being voted on today is an attempt to rewrite history. [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] from the Left Block, never missed the voice to condemn them to human rights, but for example, the CDS failed—and we don't need to go too far— when it was to condemn the human rights atroversies in Angola, which the CDS never had the courage to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Now, you're getting the CDS to say an angry thing rather than saying a right thing! On the other hand, I am asking the CDS : who is Mr Nuno Melo sitting next to him, belonging to the same European Parliamentary group? of such neo-fascists, for which Mr Now said that some people prefer one thing, others prefer another, those that they omit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u190	Well remembered! [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u191	They are sitting next to them, those who have proposed this vote in the European Parliament. Therefore, we do not accept to rewrite history and do not accept that, in this rewriting of history, if we try to place communist parties—now, like the Portuguese Communist Party— alongside those who attacked freedom, when we recognize many of these communist militants an essential role for Portugal to have freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u193	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u194	In conclusion, Mr President, we well remember the weight of the transition to freedom in Portugal for the CDS. We well remember those who did not rise, for example, to vote for a Constitution of democracy, a Constitution of the Republic and democracy. [[Protests from CDS-PP, CH and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u195	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u196	That is why these political alignments are now very clear in our eyes. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u197	You have the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has chosen to present its own vote on this matter, condemning all totalitarian regimes, all their atrocities, regardless of their nature. I feel that it is our duty today not to enter into simplistic equations and, above all, not to enter into equations that can lead to historical revisionism, whatever it is, and to the whitening of the essence of Nazism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So that there is no doubt, we condemn all totalitarianisms and also totalitarianism of communist inspiration and their atrocities. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a time of growth of movements and parties of Nazi inspiration, we cannot spread the nature of Nazism and its atrocities, committed in the name of an obsession with the purity of the race, which led to a deliberate, programmed, programmatic goal of elimination and extermination of all those who could threaten this purity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u199	And did Communism not do the same?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u200	At the time, the Jews, the gypsies, the disabled joined the communists for other reasons. It was in the name of this purity of the race, of this singularity of Nazism, that these atrocities were committed, and this singularity can never be bleached with purely simplistic equations, which are or a political manipulation...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u201	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u202	...or just a mere inability to understand complex issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u203	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u204	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u205	Mr President, I do not know whether the correct regimental figure is an appeal to the Bureau or a defense of honour, but I will use any of them that works in this case. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u206	You have to explain why your honor has been offended, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u207	Mr. President, I was accused by Mr. Members João Oliveira and Pedro Filipe Soares to be leading third parties. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u208	Please, sir, but be quick.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u209	I am not going to make the contradiction, I will just say that it is absolutely strange that, in a debate in which a draft resolution presented by the Liberal Initiative is concerned,... [[It's a vote!]] [[It's a vote!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u210	... the transitional regulatory solution found does not even allow the Liberal Initiative to defend its position.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u211	That is not a defense of honor, Mr. I'm asking you to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us vote vote 5 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the IL ) — Welcoming the adoption by the European Parliament of Resolution 2019 / 2819 condemning the totalitarian regimes of fascism and communism and recalling their victims. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the L, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PSD member ) — Reiterates the condemnation of all totalitarian regimes, in association with European Parliament Resolution 2019 / 2819. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u212	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u213	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u214	Mr President, it is for a regiment on the conduct of the work. I was informed by the Bureau that, in accordance with the new rules, Members coming to the vote must expressly ask the Bureau to report on this. Therefore, I am doing so, in accordance with the instructions I have received from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u215	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we follow the vote on vote No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CH ) — Greetings by the resolution of the European Parliament which equally condemns the Nazi and Communist regimes for their crimes against humanity. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We now vote vote No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS and signed by 1 PSD member ) — Condemning all totalitarian regimes, reaffirming the importance of memory enhancement policies. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and L and votes against the PCP, ENP and CH.]] Let us vote vote No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CFP ) — Condemnation and protest with regard to the anti-communist resolution and historical falsification adopted by the majority of Members of the European Parliament. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP and ENP and L abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and concern about the situation in Chile. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the L and 2 PS (Hugo Carvalho and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u216	Do you now vote against? What about the criterion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u217	We turn to the vote on vote No 13 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by IL ) — Repudiation of the abuse of power of the state of Chile in the repression of demonstrations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, PAN and IL and abstentions from PS, CH and L.]] We now vote vote No 23 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PSD member ) — Of condemnation and concern for attacks on the rule of law and public order in Chile. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the L, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] The vote on vote No 25 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the repression against popular demonstrations in Chile. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the L and 2 PS (Hugo Carvalho and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u218	After all, there can be repression, as long as it is to keep order!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u219	We now vote vote No 29 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Concern about the violation of human rights in Chile. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the L, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD, the PCP and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u220	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u221	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u222	Mr President, it is to inform that on these five votes relating to the situation in Chile, we shall enter a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u223	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Neves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u224	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr André Pinotes Batista, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u226	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau, in the same sense that you recently made a member of my bench. It was not possible for me to take part in the quorum check. I apologize for the inconvenience, but I had not yet verified that there was no sheet of presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. in these cases, there is no need to make an intervention, just say: "I am here! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Laughing.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the following vote No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PSD member ) — Condemnation and solidarity for the invasion of Borba’s Fire Department and subsequent assault of picket firemen. Also in this case, the allocation of 2 minutes to each parliamentary group was requested. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to say that the CDS is very proud to have voted against the Socialist Constitution in 1976. We are proud and history has given us reason. It seems that some continue in 1974 and 1975, when some were admirers of the USSR, others of Albania, and now they all revere in Maduro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u229	Mr President, I would ask you to stick to the topic of the intervention for which you have two minutes. Otherwise, we jump from topic to subject. That question is closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u230	Mr President, the subject is 'political' and, as Mr President will see, it is a management that continues to hold on to this concept, gripped by socialism. It is not by chance that in here, it points to the CDS to follow good ideas, but it wants to silence others, as you have tried to do still recently. In relation to Borba, what happened is unacceptable. Peacekeepers were attacked by two dozen people in a barracks. This is happening in our country, which is unacceptable. The CDS was the first to present a vote on the matter, but it will vote in favour of all those who are going to condemn this reality in the same way. However, there are other votes that seem more contradictory. In other words, they are more concerned about this political reality than about condemning an unacceptable attack and the violence that those who use uniforms and represent the Portuguese state were victims. That is why we will not vote for these contravenes, so to speak, because it is absolutely clear to us. Isn't it politics? It's political, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It's no use, it's political! This is because there is an incompetent government, there is a government that does not guarantee security forces means, there is a government that obliges security forces men to acquire their own means, there is a government that does not protect firefighters, who does not protect teachers, who does not protect students. There are parties that are complicit and are next to that government, which is the majority of management, and therefore this is political.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u231	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u232	Who is also condemned in this vote is the inaction of the Government, particularly that of the Minister of Internal Administration. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u233	Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An act of violence comes from where it comes from, in the light of any average standard of a democratic rule of law which respects human rights, as is our case, is totally unacceptable and unacceptable. Therefore, whatever its author, whatever its ethnicity, this act always deserves an vehement and unequivocal condemnation and rejection by the PSD. So if this aggression is practised, as it seems to have been, against volunteer firefighters in office — those who access citizens in emergency situations and in pure manifestations of altruism and surrender to communities, often sacrificing their own lives — it becomes especially censorable and intolerable. This is why Mr President and others are here. Members, our total solidarity with the Borba fire department, regretting, however, that the Minister of Internal Administration, faced with these facts, has devalued and diminished the incident, limiting itself to the normal cliché that Portugal is a safe country. This romantic proclamation is not enough, the government must, at the right time, and indeed every day, defend and protect its servants. And that's what you couldn't do in this case. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u235	Mr Norberto Patinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party vehemently condemns and repudiates the acts of violence that have reached the Volunteer Firefighters of Borba. They are very serious, unacceptable acts of crime that focus on the integrity of our peacekeepers and cannot be unpunished. They are censorable acts because they have addressed those whose mission is to defend the citizens in emergency situations, often risking their own lives to safeguard the goods, health and the lives of third parties. It is important and fundamental that generalizations are not built from isolated incidents... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u237	...to pass a wrong message of the positive situation that the country knows about by international comparison and by the many measures that guard it every day. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u238	Reaffirming its total solidarity with the Borba firemen and all the firemen in the country, it is required that, in accordance with the rule of law, the aggressors be identified, they be punished in accordance with the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u239	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: unlike the CDS, by the voice of Mr Telmo Ventura, pardon, Telmo Correia,... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] ... we will use this vote to do what the vote says, which is to demonstrate solidarity with the body of Volunteer Firefighters of Borba and not to politicize with a serious act nor to fall into generalizations that seek an absolutely undue political advantage and therefore reject and go back to the background what should be the essential. Mrs. Members, it is essential to condemn the attack and violence that existed in the Borba Volunteers headquarters and demand that what has happened and that its perpetrators be brought to justice, not starting for generalizations that create more prejudices in society than any kind of solidarity... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u241	...with these men and women, firemen of peace and who, I believe, do not accept war on their behalf. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u242	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote presented by the CFP has as its first concern the expression of solidarity with the Volunteer Firefighters of Borba and the condemnation of the acts of vandalism and aggression of which they have been targeted. And that is precisely why I wanted to start, even though there are other parliamentary groups, particularly the CDS, which did not have a word to say about this. This is the first aspect of the CFP vote I wanted to underline. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] More: in the vote of the CFP, there is one aspect that we condemn, which are attempts to take advantage of political forces, because they have no concern or intention to solve the security problems of the populations, before they take advantage of any situation of violence to embolden them, to create in the populations a feeling of insecurity, so that, from this heat of social destabilization, they may eventually successfully avenge their speech of hatred, violence, conflict and permanent confrontation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u245	Our perspective is exactly the opposite. Solutions must be found to ensure the tranquillity and security of populations and every situation of violence must be considered as such and not transformed into an element of multiplication of a feeling of insecurity, particularly where this can lead to situations of social conflict.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u246	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u247	I would like to conclude by leaving a challenge to the ladies and gentlemen. Members who have agreed to bring these votes here, but who have so far done zero to solve the problems of lack of security forces and services. In particular, I wanted to leave a challenge to the ladies. Members of the CDS : the day after these events, the PCP had a meeting with the territorial command of the GNR, do the same, that they are still waiting for you! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u248	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PSD member ) — Condemnation and solidarity for the invasion of Borba’s Fire Department and subsequent assault of picket firemen. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the PAN and the L.]] We now vote vote No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Of condemnation and concern for serious events against the Volunteer Firefighters of Borba and Elvas. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u249	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u250	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u251	Mr President, I am not going to ask the floor to defend honor because it is not my responsibility, I just want to express to the Bureau the cartoon that is to present a vote and we cannot talk about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u252	Mr President, we have already spoken about this and it is not worth insisting on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u253	Mr President, I just wanted to make it clear what cartoon it is and who is responsible for what happened here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u254	This cartoon also happened in the previous legislature whenever there were votes from the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u255	But it's loaded, Mr. President. It's loaded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u256	Please sit down, sir. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 14 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Of solidarity with the Volunteer Firefighters of Borba and of condemnation of acts of violence and disrespect that they were targeted. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We now vote vote n.o / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of solidarity with the Firefighters of the Bourba Quarter for the assaults suffered. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 16 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the ENP and signed by 1 PS member ) — In solidarity with the Volunteer Firefighters of Borba for the acts of aggression they suffered. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We will vote for vote No 24 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD ) — Solidarity with the Volunteer Firefighters of Borba. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS ) — Condemnation for the attacks recorded at the Borba Fire Department and of solidarity with the corporation. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and the abstention from CH.]] Then we passed to Vote No 19 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PSD member ) — Praise the Mixed Heart of the Beira Interior for the Gold Medals won at the Adriatic Pearl Choir Competition & Festival, which is present in the galleries. Let's vote for him. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 20 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Condemnation of Turkish invasion of the Kurdish region of Rojava. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PAN, L and 8 PS (Catarina Marcelino, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Filipe Pacheco, Joana Sá Pereira, Maria Begonha, Miguel Matos, Olavo Câmara and Tiago Estêvão Martins) and abstentions from PS, PCP, PEV and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u257	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u258	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u259	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u260	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u261	Mr President, although we have tabled a vote on Syria, which is ahead of us in the vote script, we will present a statement of vote on what we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u262	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Neves is asking for a word for what?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u263	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u264	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Does Mrs Cecilia Meireles intend to use the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u265	Yes, Mr President, also to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u266	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote on vote No 21 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of condemnation and concern for the situation in which the Bolivian population is located. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 26 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and concern for the military coup d'état in Bolivia. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the L and 2 PS (Hugo Carvalho and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and the PS abstention.]] We will vote for vote No 30 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the coup d'état perpetrated against the legitimate President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Evo Morales, and democracy in Bolivia. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL, and with votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and Le the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u267	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u268	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u269	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that we are going to send a statement of vote on what we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u270	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on vote 33 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — Concern about the situation in Bolivia and the call for the replacement of democratic normality. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PAN and L, votes against PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP and ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u271	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u272	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u273	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, with regard to the four votes relating to the situation in Bolivia, we will present a written vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u274	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote vote No 28 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — From greeting to the commemoration of the International Day of the Rights of the Child and 30. the anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us vote vote No 31 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Greetings to the United Nations Conference on Population and Development ( CIPD25 ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 32 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the war of aggression against Syria and its people. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against PCP, ENP and L, and abstentions against PAN and CH.]] We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 31 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to strengthen the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, IL and L and abstentions from PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] We will generally vote for Resolution No. 40 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Strengthening care in pregnancy and childbirth. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CHe do IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u275	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u276	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u277	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party will deliver a statement of vote on these diplomas of pregnancy and childbirth.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u278	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u279	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u280	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u281	Mr President, I would like to record that there is a conflict of interest in the following votes, since I am a teacher of public higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u282	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 38 / XIV / 1. a (PEN) — Materializes the right to a mandatory change in the position of remuneration to teachers of public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CHe do IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 56 / XIV / 1 is hereby followed. a (PAN) — Clarify the remuneration progression regime of higher education teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the L and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 58 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Remuneration of higher education teachers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the L and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] The general vote of Bill No 61 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Effectives the right to the remuneration progression of public higher education teachers, ensuring the accounting of all points obtained. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the L and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government account for the evaluation obtained by the former military in the years in which they performed functions in the Armed Forces, after entering the Public Administration, for the purposes of the Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System ( SIADAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the IL, the PS votes against and the L abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u283	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u284	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u285	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u286	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then generally vote on draft resolution No 28 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government assess the relevance of the introduction of sex in pre-school education establishments. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L and PS, CH and IL abstentions.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 38 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Adopts the recommendations of the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics, promoting the creation of conditions for the practice of the sixth of preschool children. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the L and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall generally vote for Resolution No 47 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the conditions for the effective possibility of 6th anniversary of pre-school education in the public network of the Ministry of Education. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the L, against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 22 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve living conditions and access to health care by people with inflammatory bowel disease. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L and PS, CH and IL abstentions.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 36 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to minimize the impact of inflammatory bowel diseases on the lives of these patients. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the L and the PS, BE and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to increase accessibility to health care and improve the quality of life of people with inflammatory bowel diseases. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and BE abstention.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 50 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for patients with inflammatory bowel disease. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L and PS, CH and IL abstentions.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Saving the coastal forests: short and long-term commitments. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and L, votes against PS and the abstention from CH.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We will generally vote on draft resolution No 42 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For the defense of Pinhal de Leiria. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH and L and votes against PS and IL.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with forestry criteria under the National Leiria Forest Recovery Plan. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH and L and PS and IL abstentions.]] This diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We now vote on Resolution Project No 49 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recovery, monitoring and valuation of the National Lawn Plant. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH and L and votes against PS and IL.]] The diploma goes down to 7. the Commission. We shall proceed to the joint vote of requests submitted by the ENP, the CDS-PP, the BE and the PCP respectively, requesting the resignation of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a 60-day deadline of Bill No. 26 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Ensures the right to reduce working hours for breastfeeding, breastfeeding or accompanying children up to 3 years of age, promoting an amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 55 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creates the allowance for child care up to 2 years of age, in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding, starting at 15 years. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, 60 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the dispensation for follow-up to children up to 3 years of age, starting at 16. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, and 62 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the right of children up to 3 years to be accompanied by parents. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the vote on Bill No. 59 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Increased allowance for serious, chronic or oncological patients ( sixth amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP, CH and L and abstention from the NAP.]] The vote was followed by Bill No 63 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the disease allowance for tuberculosis, cancer and chronic disease ( Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL and votes against BE, PCP, ENP, CH and L were rejected.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 39 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government create conditions for strengthening the protection of workers in the disease when it involves particularly serious economic circumstances. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the L and with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL.]] We then voted on Resolution No. 23 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the location of the future neonatology and care unit in pregnancy and in the birth of Coimbra on the grounds adjacent to the Hospital dos Covões. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u287	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u288	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u289	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote. [[Protests from BE Members and PSD Counter-Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u290	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of the vote, and I would ask that they remain silent and that they show respect and consideration by the Bureau. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 29 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Implementation of the new motherhood of Coimbra on the campus of General Hospital ( Covões ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the L and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] Mr Álvaro Almeida, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u291	Mr President, on this vote, the PSD Parliamentary Group will also make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u292	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Please let me know. Secretaries that there were Members of the Socialist Party who voted in favour. Is that so?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u293	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u294	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u295	Mr President, it is to a point of order for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u296	There are no points of order in the Assembly of the Republic, but I understand what you want, because I was also a student leader.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u297	Mr President, I just wanted to inform you that the members of the Socialist Party elected by the electoral circle in Coimbra abstained in the two previous votes. I believe that the Bureau is not properly recording the results of the votes, at least that was what I thought.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u298	It is recorded, at a later date, that Mr. PS members, elected by Coimbra, abstained. But he agreed to say the names.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u299	Mr. President, it is the Deputies Pedro Coimbra, João Ataíde, Cristina de Jesus, Tiago Martins and João Gouveia. I now wish to inform you, avoiding using the floor again, that we will also abstain from the next vote and that we will present a written vote on these three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u300	It is recorded that the declaration of vote will be delivered, but, so that no doubt remains, we again vote on draft resolution No 29 / XIV / 1. a (PEV). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from the PSD, CDS-PP, CH and from the Deputies of PS Cristina de Jesus, João Ataíde, João Gouveia, Pedro Coimbra and Tiago Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u301	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u302	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u303	Mr President, it is to inform again that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u304	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. But have you considered the possibility of making a statement of vote on all these votes at the same time? [[Laughing.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 48 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the construction of a new motherhood in Coimbra to cover the number of births of current maternity and is located at the General Hospital of Coimbra. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and L and abstentions from the PSD, CDS-PP, CH and from the Deputies of PS Cristina de Jesus, João Ataíde, João Gouveia, Pedro Coimbra and Tiago Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u305	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u306	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u307	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on these three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u308	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on the report of the Management Account of the Assembly for the year 2018. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and L and the abstention of the NAP.]] Mrs. Members are now in approval of paragraphs 92 to 102 of the Diário, concerning plenary meetings held on 5, 6, 7, 12, 14, 18, 19, 21, 26, 27 and 28 June, and paragraphs 103 to 108 of the Diário, concerning plenary meetings held on 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 and 19 July. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We have reached the end of the vote and, before the end of the sitting, I should like to inform you that the next plenary meeting will be on Wednesday at 3 p.m. and political statements as a agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u309	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u310	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-15.u311	Mr President, it is to make a brief request to the Bureau, which will be justified. Today is the National Day of the Portuguese Gestive Language and being something structural for the functioning of our work, in which the Assembly was a pioneer, having had no vote that we would like to note, however, to leave that fact and to salute the Assembly for being a pioneer in this task. [[Gestal applause from PS, BE, PCP and PAN Members.]] Mr President : - Very well, Mr. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 12 minutes.]]
