ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Minister for Finance, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. The agenda for today's sitting, as you know, consists of a debate under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure, with the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, and with the Minister of Finance, on the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ( PREVPAP ). To open the debate, to ask questions, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, and very good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Finance and Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. For several times in this legislature, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Antonio Costa, in the 15-year debates, referred to the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration and in the business sector of the State. We know that this is a dossier surrounded by huge political propaganda, in fact a very strong file of the Socialist Party's union with the Left Block and the PCP, but it can no longer be said that it is a very strong and credible dossier with the workers, to whom you promised their integration by the end of 2018 and that it has not yet happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u3	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u4	in this sense, the PSD always said that the methodology was weak, not serious, not transparent, until Mr. Prime Minister decided to announce a kind of lightning research to this Program. That is how, on October 11, he issued an order addressed to Mr. Ministers Vieira da Silva and Mário Centeno requesting a report on 11 October to show the failures, delays and errors related to this Programme. Well, Mr Minister — I think I must address Mr Vieira da Silva, who is the political coordinator of this programme, who has everything to be political and less administrative, as you know — I am addressing you asking whether you can share with us the report of this lightning research that Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, asked for VV. Ex. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u5	You have the floor to reply, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Carla Barros, what Mr Prime Minister has asked the members of the Government responsible for this case is normal. It is normal for a Prime Minister to ask the Ministers about the situation of the files they are responsible for. And the answer that was then sent was an account of the Program's developments in its various aspects. As I think you know, this commitment is in the Government Programme. It is a commitment to regularize illegal labour relations in central public administration and in the business sector of the State. It is a programme designed, developed in a demanding but clear, transparent and selective way. Why? Firstly, because this regularization of links programme was able to submit its candidacy to all employees of the Central Public Administration and the business sector of the State who considered that they had a relationship that did not correspond to the nature of their function. Everyone was able to apply! And all these candidatures were evaluated through a process taken up and coordinated at the level of government, attended by services, trade unions, and, of course, by workers, leaders and members of the sectoral government. And so they were appreciated, evaluated and approved — those they had to be — all applications that basically corresponded to two characteristics.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u7	Mr Minister, you have already exceeded your response time, which is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. The characteristics were that corresponded to the permanent functions of the service and that the type of bond had labour characteristics of the dependency relationship that required its transformation into a permanent bond. And that's what's been done. The time I have at my disposal does not allow me to present the global numbers, but that is what has been done and will continue to be made, in a certain way, transparent and so as to solve the problem of many thousands of public administration workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u9	You have the floor to reply, Mrs. Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u10	Mr Minister, you have not answered my question. I know, as the Portuguese know, that thousands of workers have submitted their candidacy, their manifestation of interest. What we do not know yet is why these workers have not been integrated until 31 December 2018, as the government has promised!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u12	Mr Minister, this is the essential question, whose answer I wanted to know. But I would like you to answer a few more questions. How does the Minister justify the fact that the Government announce a brilliant plan to combat job insecurity, which in both the public and the private sector continues to increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u13	Don't stop increasing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u14	Continue to increase, Minister! How does you explain, for example, that in the private sector—I am talking about official data, through the survey into the employment of the National Institute of Statistics—in 2018 we have reached the maximum number of precariouss as we have never had, nor in 2011, what was the year of the troika?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u16	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived the time you had for the reply. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u17	Mr. Minister, in 2018, we have more than 73,000 precariouss than we had in 2011 when the country was ruled by the troika. Please answer, Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u18	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to compare the employment data for the years you called the years of the troika — you could also say the years of governance of the PSD and the CDS — with the current data, let us go to that, Mrs Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u20	The years of your troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u21	The honourable Member says that there are now more precarious contracts! Madam Member, you are wrong, there is more employment, there are more 350 000 jobs! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And the vast majority of these net jobs that have been created in the economy have been created with endless contracts! The honourable Member says that there are more precarious contracts. Unfortunately, there are. But, fortunately, there is much more work with lasting ties, and that is the change, Madam Member! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] You don't speak for Mrs. Deputies! More than 350 000 jobs are created in the economy. That's the difference! With regard to public administration and precariousness, we also know what the difference is: it is the difference between a government that launches a process of regularization of precarious workers and an opposition that was opposed to this programme and that, when it was government, created more instability, layoffs, disengagement and precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u22	I have the floor for a question, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, the Left Block is very proud of this law, which is one of the most important of this legislation, after decades of injustice, illegality, irregularities, culture of precariousness, schemes that made the state the biggest employer of precariouss. The fact that there are now more than 15 000 workers who already know that they will have their link guaranteed to add to the 10 000 in the authorities gives us a dimension of the problem and the impact that this law has already had. But we wanted to talk to them about problems and we wanted to ask the honourable Members. Ministers on problems that currently exist. The first is the problem of delays, delays in the analysis of the processes: five months after what should be the end of the deadline, there are workers whose processes have not even been analyzed and who have not had any response, as is the case with specialized technicians. There are also delays in the approval of the processes. At IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training, I.P. ) an examination of the requirements is pending for approval in Lusa ( Portugal News Agency, S.A. ) the Ministry of Labour asks for new reasons after having given the positive opinions, which delays the approval and the binding of workers, and we do not understand why. I also refer to delays in competitions and the linkage of workers. In state laboratories there are workers whose situation has already been approved, but whose processes are never linked again, regularized. As far as social security is concerned, the Minister said in this Parliament in January that they would have their own framework. We are in May, there is still no framework of our own, and the lovers continue to wait for the competition to open, after the proceedings have already been approved. Secondly, there is a problem of communication and transparency. Workers who have been subject to these delays do not know which new calendar they can count on, have not received any communication from CABs ( Bipartite Evaluation Committees ) or guardianship. The third problem is the disparity of criteria, for example in the analysis of false outsourcing. In hospitals, workers in false outsourcing had a positive opinion; in RTP, they had a negative opinion and resorted. According to the Minister of Culture, the cases will now be appreciated and will be accepted, apparently.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u24	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm sorry, but today the grid of times is like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u25	I shall now finish, Mr President, by referring to one final note: there is also a gap in the number of vacancies between positive opinions and the number of vacancies in operational programmes, IEFP or in prisons. I'd like you to meet me. Ministers would answer this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u26	To reply, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Moura Soeiro, in the direct and indirect administration of the State and in the business sector of the State were assessed 32,785 situations. of these, withdrawing those that were considered not admitted for various reasons and if we also withdraw those who already had a contract of work with the State today, 72 % were positively assessed, with favorable opinions, and 28 % with unfavourable opinions. There's no delay, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u28	There's no delay? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u29	There is no delay in the following: the unfavorable situations, as you know, follow a rigorous, serious, robust and very transparent process, with individual hearings in each of these situations. Of all these situations, only one of the CABs, that of education, are still in progress. All the others are at this stage of hearing and are being re-appreciated. The cases of RTP and LUSA, which he cites, relate precisely to situations that are in this second phase of reassessment. These are situations that may seem morbid, but it is essential that they be done in a very, but even very demanding way so that we can reach the end of this very important process of binding workers in a precarious situation, without any legal difficulties associated with this process. All situations will therefore be evaluated and they are all within the process of the law process that we define. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u30	Mr José Moura Soeiro continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u31	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, but you're not right. We made the law in this Parliament and put an article in the law on the business sector of the State that said that by 31 May last year the proceedings would be completed in the business sector of the State. It is in the law, we write this law, we know the articles we approved in this Parliament, we know what we put in the law. Moreover, in the business sector of the State there is not even a need for competitions, because it follows private labour law, the Labour Code and not the General Labour Law in Public Functions. So there are delays, which have to be fought. There are also delays in the approval of processes and, often, these delays come from the approval of the Ministry of Finance itself. There are also delays in the analysis of the cases. It is not understood why they do not give answers to workers, specialists, who are still waiting. Mr Minister, I also wanted to say that in the case of IEFP, the trainers are still waiting to know how many vacancies will exist. They have asked that question dozens of times and we still do not have an answer. We know that there are about 1,000 workers who have had a positive opinion, but, according to the report, there will be only one number of vacancies that is less than half.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u32	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u33	So the question that we are asking is the following: what will happen to workers who have had a positive opinion, but who have a role to play in saying that their situation is irregular and that they are not vague? Are you going to continue working with false green receipts for the state? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u34	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u35	Mr. Deputies, the proceedings are individual. There were hundreds — I repeat, hundreds — of meetings of the different CABs that were formed. All opinions that were negative in the first phase will have a hearing in the second phase, which I mentioned recently, once again individually. Everyone's in progress. It is true that there is a time limit and that this time limit has been included in the law, as you well know. After we started the entire process, several extensions were made, giving workers more time to be able to present more processes and more time for the services to also present processes, if they understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u36	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u37	The most important thing and what we certainly do not want to violate in this process is the principle that those who have a precarious bond can have access to a permanent bond if they are in accordance with the law. And we're following all processes. There is no situation that is stopped right now and that is not being worked. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u38	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u39	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Government, but also the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CFP must account for the promises they have made — unmet promises — for the delays in this process and for the frustration they have been feeding with many workers. The first explanation the Government has to give is why this process is so late. In the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 32 / 2017 and then in the law, what was committed is that all this process would be completed by the end of 2018. Unfortunately, we know that this is not the case — they demand the Mission Structure for the Extension of the Continental Platform, the trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, the workers of RTP, the workers of Lusa, the researchers of higher education establishments, the fellows of the National Laboratory of Civil Engineering and the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere, the operators of the National Commission for Civil Protection and the CDOS (District Command of Relief Operations ). The question we would like to ask is: what answer do you have to give to these same workers? By the way, sirs. Members of the Government, if they say they are combating precariousness, why do they continue to increase service providers in public administration in numbers far higher than those that existed in the previous government? It seems that you have no explanation for this! You say they're fighting precariousness, but they keep increasing it. [[Protests of PS Members.]] This is a question where it is not possible to look to the other side, because only those who do not see what is happening are unable to answer this same problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u41	Mr Mário Centeno, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u42	Mr, the answer we give is the opposite of the one you gave when you were in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The answer we give is that of a programme for the regularization of precariouss, which is the opposite of what has been done, for example, in a ministry which the party of the Member State controlled in the last government. It's exactly the opposite! Mr President, I insist that all proceedings are under way. The delay against the date included in the law is explained for two reasons. The first, as I have just said to the Left Block Member, is that the extensions which have been included after the law have been approved, which are yours, and some have even been proposed in this House of the Republic. The second reason has to do with the fact that processes are individual, that is, they do not sympathize with dates, they are all in progress and will all be completed within legality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u43	Don't you feel sorry for yourself? Oh, my God! People have to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u44	We will not commit illegalities at the expense of not taking the proceedings to the end, in the manner in which it was processed in law. Mr Deputy, for the year 2018, which has already been concluded and whose numbers are closed, the number of contracts to be concluded in the Portuguese Public Administration fell from about 4000 to 2017. These are the numbers for reducing precariousness in the Portuguese Public Administration that we have to give you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u45	Mr António Carlos Monteiro continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u46	Minister, there's something you can't explain. [[PS protests.]] It cannot explain why service services continue to increase in the State. Why is there today more workers to an end than there was in the previous government?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u47	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u48	So that's the truth of numbers. These are the numbers you have to put forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u49	They're more workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u50	You are not even solving the problem of the past, you are solving the problem you are creating. You continue to increase precariousness in the state, continue to increase the number of precariousness in the state and say that they are solving the problem, when, in fact, what they are doing is putting one finger in a hole that they have in the dam, when they have water running side by side.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u51	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u52	As far as this is concerned, Mr Minister, the explanation they are giving us is absolutely insufficient, because official numbers are there and prove it. In fact, Mr Minister, you are comparing yourself with the previous year, a year that is also part of your governance. It does not compare with the previous government, because it knows that there are more precarious today than there was in the previous government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u53	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u54	Mr President, two extraordinary teacher binding procedures have been conducted by this Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u56	This Government has initiated the procedure for the regularization of precariouss. The numbers I compare are the 2017 numbers with those of 2018, because the latter already have an impact on PREVPAP. When the process is completed, more than 16 000 public administration workers who had precarious contracts will be regularized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u57	There's more for the summer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u58	They've waited decades, they've been subjected to all the abuse that their government, the previous government, wanted to do to them. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] It was the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity in its government that placed more than 600 social security workers on the shelf, Mr. Deputy! There's no point in talking more numbers! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u59	Talk to your colleague who's next to you about bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u60	You have the floor to put questions to Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, first of all, combating precariousness is not a favour. Combating precariousness is a state obligation. [[PCP applause.]] The Government is not doing a favour, it is complying with the law and the Constitution as regards the principle that a permanent job has to correspond to an effective bond. The deadlines have already been exceeded, Mr. Ministers: May 31, 2018 was the deadline for the business sector of the State. We are entering the month of May 2019 and thousands of workers await response.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u62	Not thousands!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u63	In Lusa, of the 47 workers who presented the proposal, 25 had a positive opinion. By when is the binding of the 25 journalists of Lusa? of the 400 RTP opinions, only 103 had answers. For when is the bonding of these workers? At his last hearing, the Minister of Finance assumed, with regard to RTP Madeira and RTP Azores, that these workers would be integrated, but these workers are suffering reprisals for having fought because they are withdrawing hours from their work. So, when was the binding of the 25 Lusa journalists who had a positive response, when was the binding of the 51 RTP workers who had a positive response four months ago, in January, and of the 92 RTP workers who had a positive response in March? IEFP workers who have had a positive opinion must have an effective bond. It is not possible for the public institute responsible for training to set this bad example in guaranteeing the right to employment with stability and rights. About the Mission Structure for the Extension of the Continental Platform, for when is a solution for these workers? As for the workers of the Polis companies, the Minister for the Environment has been saying for months that this situation will be resolved. It wasn't! Mrs. Ministers, every day more for these workers is one day less in the justice they deserve. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u64	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u65	It is not a favor, it is an obligation and it is a requirement that the rights of these workers be met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u66	You have the floor to reply, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u67	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, as we know, and indeed by the proposals of the various parliamentary groups involved in this process of regularization, this is a demanding process from the point of view of her procedures, in particular because — and well — gives all concerned not only the right to apply, such as the right, when there is a negative response, to be able to answer that question in the hearing. Only after completion of this process can all workers finally be integrated on a case-by-case basis. I can say that, in the case of Lusa, all the proceedings have already been completed and now it will be only — in this case no competition — a process of integration. Therefore, there has already been an opinion on all the Lusa processes and in the case of RTP there has not yet been because there are hearings of interested parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u68	Have they been approved?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u69	They have been approved yes, Mr. What I can say is that this process will continue. Madam Member, when we speak late, we must also talk about increasing the guarantees that have been given, because the government — and the government has incorporated these requests — has been asked to extend the deadlines for the submission of candidatures, even by the unions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u70	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u71	It is a fact that not much more applications have been submitted than those already submitted by the workers themselves. The reality that cannot be denied is that of the numbers that mention that, if we exclude from the applications that are not included in the PREVPAP process, for example because some thousands of workers with permanent contracts have competed with PREVPAP...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u72	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u73	I will finish, Mr. President. If we exclude these numbers or similar situations, the rate of positive opinions, most of which are already fully approved, is 72 %. This is the reality of PREVPAP and everything else is sand for the eyes of those who want to evaluate this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u74	Mrs Rita Rato still has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u75	Mr Minister, next month of May, will the 25 Lusa journalists be integrated? In the next month of May, will the 143 workers of the RTP be integrated? In the next month of May, will the 18 workers of the Madeira RTP be integrated? Mr. Minister, that's what it's worth knowing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u76	That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u77	It is true that this process takes a delay of 20 years, but not due to lack of proposals, because over the last 20 years the CFP has often brought proposals to combat precariousness. As always, how did they vote on PSD and CDS? Against! How did the PS vote? Stay away! It is necessary, in a relative majority context, for the PS to realize that it is essential to combat precariousness and recognize the rights of these workers. In the next month of May, will the problem of Lusa and RTP workers be solved? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u78	Mr Vieira da Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u79	Madam Member, as I said earlier, it is not next month of May, it will be on the day when the administration of Lusa wants to integrate workers, because all processes have already been approved. It is not necessary to wait for the month of May, but the conditions for the administration to integrate them — it is not their right, it is their duty — they are fully created and, once the hearing process is completed to the interested parties, the same will happen to RTP. What I can tell you is that your question is yes. Yes, in May, all the precariouss of Lusa will be integrated and all those workers of the RTP, after completion of the regularization process, which is the right of the workers of their hearing, will see their situation regularized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u80	I have the floor, for a question, Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of Labour, the fight against job insecurity has been taken as one of the main priorities of this government, and indeed, because, from a few years ago, especially with the passing of the previous government by the country's destinations, the reality of work has been completely precarious. The precarious labour relations took account of our working reality very much because of the responsibility of the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u82	So, what now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u83	It is therefore necessary to combat this problem seriously, which precariousness represents, not only because it is socially unfair and degrading, but also because the State, in this and other matters, should set an example. It happens that we have reached this stage of the process and that, in relation to the programme that should have been completed for a long time, things are still late. Therefore, Mr Minister, I leave my request for clarification as to whether the Minister is in a position to assure us that at the end of May the proceedings will be completed, in particular, or above all those concerning workers in the state business sector. Mr Minister, we are still facing daily information from precarious workers who tell us about a number of problems. It is not only the delays in the implementation of the programme and the conclusions of its contracting procedures, but also the lack of transparency and even resistance by some leaders in various sectors as regards the enforcement of the law. The Greens maintain the position they have taken since the discussion of PREVPAP, that is to say, the state must definitely stop lying and fraud in labour relations, the State must set an example. Be workers of RTP, LUSA, SNS, public school, social security, SEF, the national scientific and technological system or any other public service, meet the permanent needs of the services must have an effective link. Mr Minister, I think it would also be interesting to know what reasons these delays and difficulties are causing in the conclusions of all these proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u84	You have the floor to reply, Mr. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to repeat some of the points I have already mentioned, because they are fundamental to our understanding of this process. Much was said about this process of regularization: that people were conditioned, that they did not present the applications, that the services did not want the applications to be submitted. I said everything. But when we get to this stage, which is the final phase of the process, what we find is that whoever wanted to compete, competed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u87	... also, sometimes, of what would be legitimate, because they competed with people who already had a lasting bond. All processes are evaluated, and they are with union participation, in processes that are complex, probably more complex and demanding than we expected at the time of their launch. Everyone has the right to contradict, they have the right to challenge the decision in the hearing. And decisions are simple and based on two fundamental criteria: if they are permanent functions and the working bond that exists includes the criteria of labor of a permanent bond, then there is a place for regularization in the different forms that the law provides. More: this process has already been in addition to what was in the law of PREVPAP, because it has, for example, attributed—and is already completed—the permanent and lasting linkage of work to workers—and it is many — that were in the structures associated with the European Union's structural funds, having all passed from time indefinite contracts to endless contracts, which was an addition, an additional regularisation. If we join in these cases what happens in the authorities, who follow an autonomous path...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u88	You want to finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u89	I will finish, Mr. President. in this case, we verify that, although delays are largely justified by the right of people to challenge decisions, we will end up with a significant regularization of precarious workers in the state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u90	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u91	Mr President, Minister, we know that the process is not easy. Certainly, it will not be easy, but I would like to record with pleasure the reply you gave to Mrs Rita Rato, saying that until May, Lusa's workers would have their situations regularized. But, Minister, there are other workers who are having problems. For example, with regard to the workers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, we consider it very unreasonable that, after the work of the two-party evaluation committees is completed, the workers continue without any answer. And the same is said about the core of technical researchers, until many of these applicants have seen their link end and, having no answers from the government, they find themselves in a situation of real impasse. Finally, Mr Minister, there are precarious workers at the LNEC ( National Laboratory of Civil Engineering) who, despite having their opinion in favour of the respective committee, have ended up losing their purse while waiting for the government response and others are at risk of losing if the government does not move forward in the process. We would like to say something about these cases in particular, because — we insist — the continuing needs of the services must, in fact, correspond to effective links.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u92	In reply, I call on the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u93	Mr President, honourable Member, at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training have already been integrated about 300 workers, with other developing processes. The Institute of Employment and Vocational Training defined the number of vacancies for permanent posts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u94	How many are there?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u95	... that are 493, if memory does not fail me, and these are the places that will be filled. There is in this Institute — and we all have to recognise — a place for other kinds of work relations, because the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training is not a school with a fixed framework, it responds to the needs that are changing over time. That was always said and assumed. In fact, it is practical for this Institute to have working relationships of a different nature than those of the permanent bond.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u96	Are we talking about a work relationship? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u97	And these working relationships will continue to exist in vocational training. The mistake was that he intended to lead all of this to national competitions, as if it were a kind of public school or university.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u98	The mistake was they promised and they didn't do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u99	But the responsibility which has been assumed here before the workers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training will be fully met by the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u100	The next question lies with Mr. Ricardo Bexiga of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make clear one thing in this debate today: PREVPAP is a programme within the framework of what was planned in the Socialist Party's electoral programme, and there is because it is planned in this Government's programme. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u102	We, unlike the balance sheet that seems, in a way, to be resulting from this discussion, are very proud of it. It was developed with the very clear idea of strengthening the modernization of the Public Administration and, above all, of valuing work in public service, ending precarious work and again giving dignity to the exercise of these functions. No, this government didn't, sir. Members of the PSD and the CDS, what you did while you were government. [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] You have developed the biggest campaign of public administration destruction, devaluing public service workers, freezing careers, increasing schedules, devaluing wages, privatizing functions! [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, the PS and this government will not accept and will not do what you have done! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: we did not — all of us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of the difficulties we would have in this process? It would be sufficient to read the report of the working group which was set up to remove the various contracting instruments that exist in the Public Administration and we would then verify the complexity which was not expected from the point of view of what was necessary to manage. They are 50 pages with several instruments that were not, at least, provided for in what was initially discussed in this House and which naturally led to this process being complex, although it has been involved, transparent and scrutinized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u103	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u104	Mr President, I would therefore ask the Government to take stock of the following questions: what is the number of requests presented in the programme? What is the number of opinions analyzed by the CAB so far and what is the percentage of favourable opinions? And what is the number of approved and approved opinions? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u105	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the balance sheet we make at this final stage of the PREVPAP process is a positive balance sheet. As I mentioned recently, 32,785 requests were appreciated. Of these, those falling within PREVPAP, 72 %, had a favourable opinion. As regards 28 % of unfavorable opinions, hearings of interested parties for reassessing proceedings are still under way. It's a tough, demanding process. We all knew it would be like this. There are over 500 CAB meetings distributed throughout all ministries. It is a very demanding process that has to be successfully completed in order not to create business disturbances and contractual litigation with everything that, as we all know, means negative to companies and, in this case, to public services where these workers also provide their service. We already have over 18 000 jobs in competition, adding local administration to the central administration, and this process will be completed. throughout this legislature, public employment has grown, round numbers, in 24 000 jobs. They have responded to absolutely dramatic demands on health, education, science and technology. This was the priority of this government and we have always acted in order to adapt labour relations to contractual ties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u107	You want to finish, Minister, if you please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u108	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, as I said recently, already in the period of the PREVPAP, when we compare 2018 with 2017, there are fewer than 4000 final contracts in the Public Administration, but there are more 8000 workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u109	You have the floor again, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u110	Mr President, Minister, then asked you the following: in the face of the more complex situations that have already been addressed here by other parliamentary benches, specifically concerning workers of the RTP, workers of Lusa, workers of the POLIS, LNEC, universities, what is the forecast that the government can now make in relation to all these processes, which are in fact divergent with the various links that have been found in the Public Administration? What can the Government respond to the legitimate expectations of workers in these special situations? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u111	Mr. Minister for Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as it has been evident from the answers we have been giving throughout this morning, we are talking about processes that have a very marked individual nature, to give all assurances to the workers that their situation is evaluated in an exemplary and rigorous way. The truth is, in relation to state laboratories and researchers, also in universities, the process is at a final stage. We expect this final phase to begin in the coming days, but we must ensure fairness and cross-cutting in decisions in all these realities. The same thing is true for the Lusa, all of which seem to be approved. Now, of course, the Board of Directors of Lusa will follow up on the entire process. At RTP, we are already going to the third assessment wave, I would say, the final processes are also being completed and, depending on the results that the whole process determines, will be completed in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u113	You want to finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u114	To finish, I just want to leave a guarantee: no process is stopped, all processes are in progress and all processes will be completed according to the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u115	To ask the next question, you have the floor of Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, when this government took possession, in 2015, it chose as the main fight against precariousness. However, when the law was passed, everyone who entered the State until May 3rd 2017 was considered precarious, which means that between November 2015 and May 2017 all persons who entered the State in a precarious situation were covered by this program. I have asked several ministers several times, including the Minister for Finance, how many deficiencies have entered the State with this government and so far have not been answered. The first concrete question that I am asking is this: of the people covered by precariousness, how many are the weaknesses of this government? The second question is this: a government that has established as its main objective the fight against precariousness has admitted precariousness, and many, already during its governance. What is important to know is what criteria this government followed to put these deficiencies in the state between November 2015 and May 2017. Were those issues of proximity? Was it a chance? Were they the first registered in the employment centre?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u117	It was Parliament's law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u118	Were they matters of familiarity with local political leaders of the Socialist Party or other high officials? What were the criteria to admit these people to the state?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u119	Have shame! [[It was the family!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u120	Another important question is this: in the process were mixed up the old precariouss, the true precariouss, with these new precariouss of the Socialist Party government. Because of the lack of money, because there are few money and the vast majority of precariouss are being paid by Community funds, the government is deliberately delaying the process, making in many situations real precariouss with many years of State work being overcome by these new precariouss of this government. Mr. Minister, why? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u121	To reply, I have the floor of Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u122	Mr President, Mr President, I have the slight impression that Mr PreVPAP did not understand the programme, but I will try to explain it to you. [[PS laughter.]] The aim of the programme is that everyone — everyone! — those who, during the period under review, had an illegitimate relationship of work performing a permanent function should see their work link regularized. That's what's being done, there's no shortage of this or that government. I even tell you, Mr President, that most of the problems that are being regulated are workers who have been linked, sometimes for years, to the work they were doing. [[PSD protests.]] So what you are trying to do is the simplest and most linear demagogy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] When the honourable Member knows a case of an ancient, illegitimate precarious link, which is maintained while others are regularised, please present this case before the Government, before the Assembly of the Republic and before the Portuguese society, because if he does not do so, he is just launching a setback for the political debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we say is that there is a distinction between precarious, illegitimate and illegal links and short-term or fixed-term work relations, which have always existed in some Public Administration careers, and these will continue to exist, as has always been said. What cannot exist, and what we hope will not happen after the adoption of PREVPAP — and if it happens the government will be careful to solve these cases — is that there are contracts that are not lasting to solve problems of a permanent nature. This is the principle that after PREVPAP is being followed and will continue to be followed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u123	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u124	Mr President, Minister, you have heard the questions well, I have no doubt about that. Therefore, if he does not answer, the old saying must be applied “who will consent”. What is left to all of this part of the debate is the following: the government does not explain, it does not tell the truth about the deficiencies it admitted because it cannot explain. If he were to explain to bury-CL - he would - and not lie either because if he were to lie - he would - be to discover-the truth and bury-CL - he would even more. This is what's left! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Therefore, the Government cannot explain criteria for the deficiencies it has admitted, nor can it explain how many of the deficiencies it has already admitted with this government. And the government acknowledges, for silence, that there are new weaknesses that have entered with the convience of this government and of management and that they are going through the real precariousness of people who have many years of working in public service, and that is absolutely unacceptable, it is a shame! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u125	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u126	You have the floor again to answer Mr Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what did you not realize when I said that all the precarious and illegitimate links fixed in the period evaluated would be corrected by this government? All of them! All of them! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there is a worker who considers that he or she has an illegitimate link and is performing a permanent function, outside the framework of the law, he or she has every right to challenge, in particular under PREVPAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Following PREVPAP, Member of the Commission, all workers who have been hired by the State or have been hired by lasting ties, or have been hired by non-lasting ties provided for in the law - as in the defence, as in the career of higher education, as in some health careers - or were hired to respond to timely and non-permanent situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u128	How many have come in?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u129	Mr. Deputy makes the accusation. If you are aware of precarious links outside the framework of the law, please identify. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u130	The next intervention, to put questions, was Mrs Joana Mortágua, from the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, the weight of the CAB of education shows what was the dimension of precariousness in public school and therefore Mr Finance said here that he acknowledged that it is the CAB with greater delay, but he also said that all PREVPAP processes are being evaluated. There are 1300 specialist technicians who delivered their case in June 2017, therefore in the first term, and therefore have their life hanging from June 2017. They are psychologists, social workers, therapists, gestal-language interpreters, who are permanent needs of the education system. Without the presence of these technicians in schools, the public school goes back a century and we again have a typical public school of the 19th century. My question is very simple: is this more than a thousand specialist technicians all being evaluated at the moment as Mr. Minister said here? What is the deadline for an answer that can finally be given to these technicians? Will it be in May, as Mr. Minister said it will happen to Lusa and RTP? What is the deadline for an answer to these technicians? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u132	In reply, Mr Mário de Finanças Mário Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u133	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, I think we need to understand how we refer to PREVPAP. I'm sure the honourable Member will agree with me. These workers, these specialized professionals of the CAB of education, whose processes are still being worked, do not have their life hanging, Mrs. They have an expectation to resolve their situation, which was created by this law, in this legislature, and that is the appreciation we should make. I insist: we cannot commit illegalities in the name of a law. We are all very committed and I am sure that the CAB of education is doing so, because there are dozens and dozens of meetings to deal with, as Mrs Deputy has said, thousands of processes, and that they have to be treated with a character of equity and transversality that cannot be called into question. The honourable Member knows exactly as well as I do that the litigation on labour and contractual relations generates instability in the workplace possibly greater than it existed when, indeed, these workers had their life hanging, which does not happen in the present legal framework. Therefore, I cannot, in the name of truth and the creation of expectations — those that exist are the ones that the law guarantees — answer the question you ask me with a date. In fact, the Under-Secretary of State and Education was here last week and acknowledged exactly that: the work is being done, we are concluding this whole process, which is a process of the greatest transcendence to the Public Administration, for each of its employees involved. These processes will be completed, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u134	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u135	I shall conclude, Mr President, by reaffirming the availability of the Government and the entire Public Administration for the effective and successful completion of this process, which is exactly the stage in which we are now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u136	Again, you have the word Mrs. Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u137	Mr President, Minister, a gesture-language interpreter who goes to the third consecutive academic year with his extended contract without knowing whether or not he will stay in the education system will lose job opportunities, will refuse job opportunities. So, yes, you have life hanging. A final deadline is that of this Parliament, and until the end of this Parliament all these technicians will have an answer. But they also want guarantees. They want assurances that there will be as many vacancies as the positive opinions and that no technician with a negative opinion will then be replaced by a protocol with CRI (a resource centre for inclusion) or by a municipal resource. So I would also like to ask you whether you can give these technicians the assurance that their linkage will not be hampered either by the process of transferring competences or by the protocols with the IRCs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u138	To reply, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u139	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, the guarantee I can give you - and here we will all be to monitor this guarantee and compliance with the law - is what we all together set as criteria in the law of PREVPAP for binding. I am not going to replace the CAB, I can't do that, no one can do it, and therefore there will certainly be a decision in accordance with the law, as I have the guarantee that all the results already approved by the Government will do so. Madam Member, and so that we do not lose the sense of all the decisions we have taken throughout this legislature, I will mention four most important processes: the extraordinary linkage of teachers in basic and secondary education, the scientific employment programme, this PREVPAP programme and the change we have made to the valuation regime which meant that, in September 2017, 781 workers were in pre-dispatched. All these processes must be valued. That's what this legislature has valued. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u140	The next intervention, for one question, is by Mr António Carlos Monteiro, of the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u141	Mr President, Minister, I recently asked why, if they say they are combating precariousness, continues to increase the number of services in the Public Administration. I will give you a third chance to respond, Minister. Why do we continue to increase the number of services?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u142	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u143	Why do you continue to increase precariousness in the state? As far as this is concerned, Mr Minister has so far been unable to answer. He spoke of workers with ties who would have gone to the table of available in the previous government. Mr Minister, knowing that these workers have been reinstated with this government, I would like to know why public services are working so badly! Why do we have people waiting for a year, two years, to pay them a pension, if you are already ruling almost a legislature? Oh, my God! Things have never been so bad in social security, things have never been so bad in health services, and things have never been so bad in the education service! Now, having the Government's bill coming with a solution that was dismissal for workers who did not accept integration, I would also like to explain why this government is threatening to dismiss workers who do not accept short-term integration. That is what has been reported to our Parliamentary Group. Therefore, we would like to know why this method is being used, since the House did not approve this measure, Minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u144	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u145	Mr President, Mr Member, as Mr Minister for Labour mentioned recently, with regard to Mr Álvaro Batista, I am also convinced that he does not know what the definition of precarious worker is and does not know why this law has been made. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And you know why you don't? Because he didn't care, because he voted against. He voted against! He didn't even care! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u146	That is now a good democratic definition: whoever votes against does not care!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u147	Mr Member, while the party to which Mr Deputy belonged was Government, the precariouss were not interested because they wanted to end them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u148	The gentlemen have said they're going to kill them and they're not done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u149	Mr. Deputies, what he wanted was to put the precariouss outside the Public Administration, he was not integrating them! That's exactly what you did! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, not all service benefits are precarious. I can explain this to you in more detail when I have more time, but not all service services are precarious. And do you know what's happened in the last three years, honourable Member? There are more than 24 000 workers in the Public Administration. In the education sector, every year the school year began on the day the government set. In the previous legislature, that never happened! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In health, we have more consultations, more surgeries, more care. Do you know how many more? Hundreds of thousands more consultations in the health sector! It is clear that there is an increase in the provision of services by the National Health Service. Don't have the slightest doubt about it! And there are many of these services that are, yes, made by workers who do not have a permanent contract, but are not precarious, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u150	Cleaning up waiting lists!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u151	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u152	They are not precarious, Mr. Deputies, you will have to study legislation a little better to understand. Therefore, this government has complied with the law, it will continue to do so, that is our purpose and that is what hurts the honourable Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u153	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u154	Mr President, Mr President, the Minister still does not want to explain why when you hire services, it is not precarious, but in previous government service contracts it is already precarious! It is the duality of criteria that you have just presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u155	Not to say intellectual dishonesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u156	The Minister also says that we wanted to end the precariouss. Who has committed to ending the precariouss were the gentlemen, but the truth is that it continues to increase the number of precariouss in the Public Administration! That is the hard truth of hearing and difficult to explain! Nor did he explain why they are threatening with dismissal workers who do not accept to be integrated with maturity cuts. We have already had several workers who have communicated this information to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u157	Who are they? Who are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u158	In addition, civil protection operators who do not accept their integration with a maturity cut, which may be up to 30 %, will necessarily have to leave. That's what was brought to us as information. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u159	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u160	Mr. President, Mr. Member, as regards the provision of services on 31 December 2015, there were 30 143 ; on 31 December 2018, there were 18,943. These are the numbers for service services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Carla Barros and CDS-PP Member Antonio Carlos Monteiro.]] The difference in the treatment of precariouss, Member of Parliament, is that, during the time that the party of the Member State was a government, ending the precariouss meant dismissing them;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u161	...with this government, ending the precarious means integrating them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u162	Deceive them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u163	That's what we've been doing, and that's what we're gonna keep doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u164	Distribute the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u165	You have the floor to put questions to Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, I would like to talk about the scandalously low number of precarious links of higher education researchers and teachers, as well as state laboratory staff, in a context where non-teachers at universities only have about 50 % positive opinions. But let's talk about specific cases: at INIAV ( National Institute of Agrarian and Veterinary Research ) there were zero competitions open for researchers; at LNEC, despite the approval in March 2019 by the competent sectoral minister, 111 workers with favorable opinions and 31 with unfavorable opinions continue to live in suspense; at IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), not only lack final competitions and decisions, such as, since March 2018, more than 60 scholarship contests have been opened, some of which for the recruitment of new workers and others to re-contract precisely those who allegedly did not correspond to permanent needs. After all, they correspond! We must also denounce the absolutely regrettable case of the University of Algarve, in which 16 of the 19 favourable opinions of researchers and the unacceptable cases of non-admission of applicants from private non-profit institutions, where, in fact, the work carried out part of higher education institutions, such as at the IST ( Higher Technical Institute ), at the FCUL ( Faculty of Sciences of the University of Lisbon ), at the FCT ( Faculty of Science and Technology ) and at the FCSH ( Faculty of Social and Human Sciences) of the New University of Lisbon, at the ISCTE ( Higher Institute of Labour and Enterprise Sciences ) or at the University of Porto. Mr Minister, many of these workers are here today in the galleries watching and we would like to know what answer is that will be given to them. For when is the association of all workers with precarious links in higher education and science, whether they are general careers or special careers? When will these workers be linked in higher education, science and state laboratories? These are the questions that we would like to leave at this stage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u167	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fall here in the same mistake that Mr António Carlos Monteiro falls when he speaks of precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u169	Oh, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u170	To which Mr. António Carlos Monteiro does not know the concept of precariousness we can get used to, but we must be very strict.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u171	Ours were, yours aren't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u172	The law is very clear, Mrs Deputies, and it has been passed by all of us here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u173	Everyone, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u174	It was approved by all those who wanted to integrate precariousness in the Public Administration. The truth is, there are situations that are outside the scope of the law. And many of the situations that you have mentioned are outside, cannot be integrated into the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u175	Are they out? Oh, my God! They're there in the galleries.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u176	Mrs Deputy, there are legal mechanisms to deal with these situations that are not within the framework of PREVPAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u177	Tell them that! They're there in the galleries!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u178	Therefore, what I appeal is that all people in these situations appeal to existing legal mechanisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u179	He's taking responsibility for people!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u180	I'm going to use a little strong expression, but we can't pollute what PREVPAP process is with these situations, because they don't fit within PREVPAP. In the investigation, Mrs Deputies, it is clear that the scholarships will continue — it is inevitable and healthy for the research process that the scholarships continue to exist. Scholarships in the investigation process will not be eliminated. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] So we have a very fundamental disagreement about how the investigation process should be conducted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u181	Yeah, we do, we do!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u182	Scholarships are an absolutely essential process in this mechanism. All processes of state laboratories, as well as all processes of researchers from higher education institutions will be completed in the coming weeks. It was necessary to do a very detailed work, once again, to ensure cross-cutting equity in all processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u183	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u184	In conclusion, we cannot risk creating situations of inequality and illegality when applying the law of PREVPAP. We're weeks from the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u185	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u186	Mr President, Minister, it is a matter of justice and recognition of a bond that all these people should have! We're not talking about the kind of confusion you referred to. The situations we are talking about here — and we would like to get answers — have to do with scholarships that constitute precarious work. What are the measures to ensure that, effectively, the pockets covered by PREVPAP, and which have applied, are entitled to their effective working linkage? Mr. Minister speaks within a few days. So, what we would like to know is whether you are actually in a position to ensure here that, in May, in INIAV, in LNEC, in IPMA and in all state laboratories, these people will have open competitions. Mr Minister, with regard to higher education and higher education institutions, it is regrettable what happened at the University of Algarve, what continues to happen in private institutions for non-profit purposes, and Mr Minister, we would like to know whether the government will seriously commit itself to combating precariousness, giving an effective response to the right these workers have to have a permanent bond. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u187	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u188	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, scholarships and internships do not correspond to the definition of precariousness. The law of PREVPAP set out exactly the criteria that should be followed so that all situations of scholarships, internships, term contracts, all situations that are listed in the original document that we made statistical survey for this law can be regulated. I can assure you, as the Government has done here today, several times, that all situations will be resolved, but we must continue to have this criterion: we cannot create situations of inequality in access to employment within the Public Administration. Therefore, all processes must follow the same criteria and this work is being done at this final stage, so that the very few situations that it refers to — which I am not devalued, but which, in the universe of precarious links, are not many — are resolved. And I can assure you that in the coming weeks this work will continue so that, perhaps by May, the competitions may be completed, but surely all the decisions taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u189	I have the floor to put questions to Mr Rui Riso of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u190	Mr. President, I welcome you. Ministers and the Ministers. State Secretaries. First of all, I would like to highlight something in PREVPAV: the precarious ones that are being integrated know what precariousness is, they know what they had, they know what they have and they know what they will have. So perhaps, for those who do not know the concept of precariousness, it would be advisable to ask these workers, who have already been integrated or are in the process of integration, because they will certainly explain-CL-that better than any one of us to the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who have doubts on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another aspect of this programme applied by this government — it is once again a socialist government that integrates barriers, and it is good to never forget that fact — is that this is an effectively transparent process that has been created to integrate precariouss, in the true meaning of the word and as defined in the law, and it is with these, yes, that we have to worry about today. There is, however, a defect in the processes, which I would like to explain. The process is transparent and has been controlled by all, indeed, just to remember all the initiatives in this Parliament, all the debates, all the questions, all the draft resolutions on PREVPAP, which means that the process deserved the concern of all of us in this House, and was widely debated. Therefore, at the moment, it is questionable why the process of integration of precarious workers is called into question. Besides, I wanted to remember two things and leave a question to Mr. Ministers, on the one hand, on the two-party committees and on the other, on all that has been added, in terms of more work for these committees, without extending the decision deadline. This is a great problem, because as more work was created, more interviews, more ways of controlling the process, the deadline for integration was not extended, which is obviously growing. Mr President, in conclusion, I would also like to remind you that those who make up the evaluation committees are not people who are fully engaged in that activity, they are people who have other activities, but who also do the evaluation committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u191	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u192	I would like to know how many thousands of interviews are to be conducted or to conclude with regard to the precariouss that are being interviewed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u193	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that during this debate a fundamental issue is being made clear: for what is the use of PREVPAP and for what it cannot be used. PREVPAP serves to regularize precarious links used to respond to the permanent needs of services, I repeat, serves to resolve the use of precarious links to meet the permanent needs of central administration and public undertakings services, and then, in a separate process, of authorities. You don't need PREVPAP to change laws! PREVPAP will not change the Statute of the Teacher Career, it will not change the Statute of the Military Service by contract, it will not change the Labour Code! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u195	If there are situations of institutions working in association with public institutions that have precarious workers to perform permanent functions, these situations should be resolved using the Labour Code in these institutions. It is not the PREVPAP that can do it, because it has no instruments for it, it only has them when it identifies false situations of service delivery. And there are some situations in which triangular relationships were considered relationships to regularize,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u196	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u197	... because the dependence of these workers, i.e., the labor criteria related to the public service. Then, as Mrs Rita Rato said, these cases were regulated. As for cases where there is no such relationship of dependence, of labour, with public services, but with other institutions, whatever they are, they have to be resolved in the field of these institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u198	You have finished the time available to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u199	I am sorry, Mr, because I do not answer all the questions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u200	Mr António Ventura has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring to the plenary a labour problem which, due to the laxity to be resolved, is becoming a work terrorism by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u202	Since 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u203	In the RTP delegation in the Azores there are more than two dozen precariouss, but there are four cases that are not understood why they are not yet resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u204	Because the PSD never submitted proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u205	In May 2018, four workers received a letter of dismissal from the RTP administration, which was even by email. They appealed to the court and, in December 2018, the court said « these gentlemen are workers of the RTP ». We are at the end of April 2019 and these workers have not yet been reintegrated into the RTP Azores. In other words, the government is out of the law, contrary to what the Minister says, when he says he is complying with the law. The government does not comply with the law and is therefore an outlaw. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] With this process being dragged, there are wages behind schedule. The government and RTP do not comply with the law, they do not pay the wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u206	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u207	Therefore, this government is complicit and it is a custodian, because, failing to comply with the law, it does not pay! It's a bald government. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ministers today are here the double perfect, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance, to tell these four workers, who are listening to us, when they will comply with the law and when they will cease to be bullies. Moreover, on 25 April, it has not yet reached this Government. Yesterday, it was celebrated on 25 April, but we are returning more than 45 years, because the rights of workers are not met. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mrs. Ministers, say here today, when they will comply with the court's decision, to be an example! You are tired of setting bad examples, you are no longer a bad example in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u208	Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u209	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will have the opportunity to give you the same answer as I have already given you to the Commission: when the honourable Member moves to work in the circle where he has been elected, he will be able to tell those four workers who voted against his integration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u210	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u211	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u212	You can tell these workers that it has always been against their integration in the framework of RTP Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u213	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u214	But you can say something else, you can tell them that this government has not only passed a law in this House that proposes its integration, as it is doing all the work that has to be done for this process to come to an end.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u215	You don't know what you're talking about! It has nothing to do with PREVPAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u216	Mr President, if it is a matter of a court sentence, as you know, the RTP Board of Directors will certainly provide for that judgment. It is not a process that passes through the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Finance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u217	He's in the Ministry of Finance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u218	...but I'm sure the Management Board will. I already mentioned that we are already on the third wave of assessments in the RTP process as a whole. currently, the CAB that deals with RTP processes is assessing for the third time a set of more than 92 requirements. It is a timeless process and I can understand that it can be seen as such, as a timeless process, but it is a very demanding process. Mr President, let us not forget to tell the workers of the RTP who voted against their integration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u219	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u220	To reply, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD had another methodology to solve the problem of precariousness. [[PS, BE, CFP, The Greens and the Government.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u222	Of course I had!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u223	He had a great methodology! What a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u224	You promised to solve it quickly! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u225	It is degrading to see a ruler apologize to the past for not ruling. This is degrading!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u226	I'm sorry! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u227	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u228	In other words, this is our democracy: a government that does not govern, because it apologizes in the past and looks at the rearview. When there are excuses not to rule, looking back, it is a sign that you do not want to solve the problems. And the government exists to solve people's problems, because you promised to solve the problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u229	PSD and CDS voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u230	More serious than that is having the judiciary say that workers are part of the RTP and you don't want to accept it! This is the problem! It is that they are out of the law and, above all, they do not pay what they owe the workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u231	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u232	Mr President, Mr António Ventura, may I also appeal to Mrs Berta Cabral to help her communicate to these workers who will be bound under a law... [[Protests by PSD Member Berta Cabral.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u233	You're not ruling!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u234	Tell me where the problem is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u235	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to let Mr. Minister continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u236	... under a law that the Mr. Ladies and gentlemen voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u237	The court has already said it is to reinstate the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u238	You may be sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u239	Tell me when it'll solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u240	You may be sorry, but what I can assure you...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u241	It is about respect for the law! The court has already decided that workers must be reinstated!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u242	Mr President, in the second part of the discussion you have in the Azores, say that the PREVPAP process is being completed, that we are in the final phase, that you had a hearing here and that it was fully clarified that all the processes are in the final phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u243	It is about respect for the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u244	As regards matters relating to court decisions, I have already told you, Mr President, that the RTP Board of Directors has this obligation and will do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Deputies Protests António Ventura and Berta Cabral.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u245	The next intervention is by Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, who has the floor to ask his questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Minister Vieira da Silva said, in one of the previous rounds of questions, that it was important to look at the numbers, and referred to the case of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, saying that this Institute is not like a school or a university. That is an excellent example, Minister! In higher education and science, the numbers are: 6891 requirements; only 170 already with contract and two are for the career of scientific research. I repeat, Minister : 6891 requests; 170 already under contract; two are for the career of scientific research. Let us give the example of the case of the University of Algarve : Mr. Rector approved much of the demands in January 2018, with the favourable vote also of the members of the Government ; in June he said that he had no money and that he wanted to re-evaluate those same demands ; the Government, on the basis of Mr. Rector's argument, that he had no money, accompanied Mr. Rector's vote, which in the re-evaluation said he did not vote favourably because he did not have money. Mr Minister, this is a declaration of irresponsibility of the government, which says that it does not guarantee the money or, then, what is the reason not to follow the favourable vote of the unions on the issue of the University of Algarve? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests from PSD Deputies Duarte Marques and Miguel Morgado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u247	Mr Vieira da Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u248	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying that, naturally, the Government is not responsible for the declarations nor for the positions of Mr. Rector of the University of Algarve, who takes them autonomously.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u249	But vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u250	If you vote and when you vote... the positions that government members hold in the CABs are those that are strictly related to compliance with the law. Mr President, on the issue of numbers, how many are or are not and how many of the procedures presented are whether or not they have been approved, it must be seen not in the light of these numbers but in the light of the criteria laid down by law and the interpretation which the evaluation committees make of them. The gentlemen. Members, and the workers themselves, can challenge these criteria, and they have room for it. However, Mr President, I would like to say again that PREVPAP has not been done to amend the law or the Statute of the Teaching Career of Higher Education. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] Mr President, I am not accusing you of anything, what I am saying is that many higher education teachers who do not fall under PREVPAP have applied for it and have therefore been excluded. It's the law! It is the Statute of the Teaching Career that organizes and disciplines work relations in universities. But the demand of the CABs was so great that, when the rules of the Staff Regulations of the Teaching Career were detected, these cases had a positive opinion and would be integrated by the universities, and I am referring to teaching staff. So this is the goal: to correct illegality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u251	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u252	... correct long-term contracts which are not supported by law and which do not meet their criteria. That's why PREVPAP was created and that's what he's building. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u253	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the law was exactly the same in January and June 2018 or January 2019. The government has been behind all the positions of the honourable Members. Rectors! When Mr Rector was in favour of promulgation, they voted with Mr Rector; when Mr Rector no longer wanted to promulgate these same demands, the government was behind Mr Rector! Exactly with the same law, which has not changed from January to June 2018 or to January 2019. Therefore, the problem is not the law, the problem is the government's position in the CAB, where he blindly votes behind any position of any rector of any Portuguese university. Mr Minister, I would also like to bring you here the case of state laboratories : LNEC, IPMA, INIAV.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u255	You've finished the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u256	I'm done now, Mr. President. Even in cases that have already been approved, these precarious researchers are waiting to have a contract because the Directorate-General for Budget does not release the funds for these contracts. That is the responsibility of the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u257	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u258	...it is not even the responsibility of the CABs, so it would be important for the government to answer why it does not release them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u259	Mr Vieira da Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u260	Mr President, Mr Member, the Minister for Finance has already made it clear that very soon the state laboratories will be completed. This is not merely a financial issue, which is also important, it is a question of equity, of dealing with different situations in a different way and equal situations. That's the point. But, Mr President, I would like to say that already in many CABs there has been a change in positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u261	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u262	I can assure you, Mr President, that the overwhelming majority of cases where there has been a change in positions has been in favour of workers and their integration, and you know very well that this has happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] This is because the government wants to comply with the law with all respect for its spirit and its letter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u263	The next questions lie with Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u264	Mr President, in this debate, making a balance sheet, what we can say is that this government, but also the PS, the Bloc and the PCP, in relation to the precarious, almost at the end of the legislature, has to present a list of unfulfilled promises.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u265	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u266	And we help ourselves with official numbers, Minister for Finance! [[The Minister for Finance's laughter.]] They would reduce the number of precariouss, but the fact is that they continue to increase the number of services and end-term workers. That's what the official numbers say. They promised that the process would be completed by the end of 2018, but we are at the end of April 2019 and there are countless precariouss that continue to await their integration. But the worst of all this is that they actually promised everything to everyone. The initial study said there were 116 000 precariouss. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a chart on ‘Evolution of the number of precariouss in PREVPAP’.]] The requirements, in fact, are 33 500. With regard to approved opinions, we are with 15 000, but there are currently 8500 vacancies open. This is what you have to introduce! These are the expectations that you have been feeding.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u267	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u268	This is what you have to introduce right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u269	It's a little bit!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u270	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u271	Is it too little, do you not think, Minister, especially for those who say that 'the word given is an honest word'? Oh, my God! Isn't that a little bit? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u272	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u273	Mr President, we do not know which, but it has been announced that the PSD had an alternative to the integration of precariouss. Probably, Mr. Deputy also has...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u274	It must be the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u275	...and maybe we've come to know that, apart from that which has been stated for many years, that it was the dismissal, there may be another.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u276	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u277	What I can assure you, Mr President, is that, of the 32 785 cases/required applications, 72 % of those which were part of the PREVPAP process are approved, are assessed, approved by the CAB with a positive opinion, with a favourable opinion. In the total of PREVPAP, more than 18,000 job competitions have already been opened, I repeat, more than 18,000 job contests. throughout this legislation, increased the number of public servants, workers in the Public Administration, especially in health, education and science, and the degree of precariousness of all these workers has decreased throughout this legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u278	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u279	Mr President, Minister, the first requirement for precariousness is not to deceive people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u280	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u281	The second solution to the problem of precariousness is not to increase the number of precariousnesses, which is what you have done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u282	That's what a responsible government does!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u283	The third question, Minister, is that it is essential that public services work better now than previously worked and that is not what is happening in health, education and social security, where we continue to have people waiting for the retirement pension for another year, up to two years, as the Ombudsman has come to draw attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u284	What does that have to do with it? Oh, my God! We wanted to fire 700!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u285	Do not deceive people, Minister, means not to speak in 116 000 possible barriers to integration, when what you now have to present is so little.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u286	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u287	And they do not respond to those who are the concerns of all those who await integration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u288	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u289	We are talking about the pockets, we are talking about all those who are waiting for you to fulfill the promise you have made right now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u290	Mr. Minister of Finance, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u291	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, what I know of what you have just said to me is that the honourable Member has not yet moved from page 1 of the Report — The lifting of temporary procurement instruments in the Public Administration, published on January 31, 2017, has passed more than two years. That is not true to people, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u292	This is the greatest intellectual dishonesty that has passed through this House today. I shall read to you, Mr President, the first paragraph of the second page, because you have not yet passed by and today you have lied to all Portuguese with the chart you presented here. [[CDS-PP protests.]] [[At the moment, Mr António Carlos Monteiro again displayed the chart on ‘Evolution of the number of precariouss in PREVPAP’.]] It says this report, which has been available for you for more than two years to read, but it has not, in fact, done so and preferred, instead, to come here lying with this chart...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u293	You're lying to the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u294	This report reads as follows: « However, it is not yet possible to identify in particular the extent of the precariousness in the Public Administration (...) to the extent that its identification will be associated with the misuse of the contractual instruments used (...) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u295	You're lying to the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u296	You've finished your time, Minister. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u297	You have not only read the report as you regret nothing about lying. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u298	That's for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u299	That's a dump! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u300	Leu?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u301	You're being monitored here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u302	You now have the floor to put your questions, Mrs Rita Rato, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, in November 2018, there was rectification of opinions by the IEFP trainers, and new favourable opinions were sent out, but it is also true that some were excluded. These, which were excluded, resorted to the previous hearing period in December. Now, we are at the end of April, May principles, and these trainers have not yet responded to their previous hearing request in December. So the questions I wanted to ask you are the following: will all the trainers with a positive response be integrated? How many vacancies will be opened? The other trainers, in order to respond to temporary needs, how will they become hired: by means of right-term contracts or will the government insist on false green receipts? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u304	Mr Vieira da Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u305	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, as you know, is the law of PREVPAP which creates for the IEFP a specific regime, different from that of the generality of services, given the specific nature of this sector. I already said here what is the forecast of opening invitation to tender: it will be, except error, 493 vacancies. Obviously, the law also specifies who can be opposed to this competition. It is not the only case in PREVPAP, where there is the possibility of more people competing for the place. in this case, we approved the same logic for employment-inclusion contracts. Therefore, this situation exists in some cases. What I can assure you is that, in addition to those who are integrated, the IEFP will establish a contracting regime with other workers who are worthy and in accordance with the law, and will not use, illegally and illegally, the figure of the provision of services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u306	Mr Rita Rato has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u307	Mr President, Minister, if we understand correctly, the IEFP trainers who will respond to temporary needs will become hired for exactly that, to meet temporary needs and therefore with a proper term contract. We note this and we understand that it is a step forward to the conclusion of a contract for the right term, replacing a figure that should not exist and that, moreover, there is not in many countries of the European Union, which is the figure of the false green receipts. The same is true of the bags. Mr. Minister for Finance said here that a scholarship may not mean precariousness. Mr. Minister of Finance, there are scientific workers from outside Europe who have never seen a scholarship, have always had a contract of work, with recognised rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u308	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u309	The fake green receipts and the bags are an aberration of this country. They do not recognize rights and must be abolished! So we also understand the following: the PREVPAP process is a process that has been removed from iron. It was a proposal of the CFP, approved here in 2016, which gave rise to the survey ; a proposal of the CFP which, in the 2017 Budget, made this survey correspond to the contract. It is a process that takes 20 years of delay and, therefore, it is to elementary justice to realize that every day that passes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u310	You want to finish, Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u311	Mr President, I do not have any more time and I will even finish in the remaining 20 seconds, just to say this: the fight against precariousness has to be a daily battle. It is not acceptable that, at the same time as this process takes place, the Government insists on maintaining precarious recruitment in many public administration services, because these workers respond to permanent needs, do not meet temporary needs, and, when it comes to permanent needs, there must be an effective link and recognition of the rights of these workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u312	Mr Vieira da Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u313	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, what I have said, and I repeat, and which goes to the speech of Mrs Deputy, is that, at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, a new model will be defined that respects the nature of the longer or shorter relationships than those that are not integrated continue to have with the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, in strict respect for the law and the figures that are provided for in the law. I can assure you that, and I am sure that the CFP will be very careful to check whether this commitment is met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u314	You can be sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u315	With regard to the scholarships, Mrs Deputies, what was done in PREVPAP was what should be done: to analyze the scholarships, to check when they corresponded to false scholarships, i.e. when they had, in particular, a temporary density that was a clear warning of a permanent relationship of labor, and to transform them into relationships of unending employment contract. This is a paradigm of the operation of PREVPAP :...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u316	You've finished your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u317	... to combat the use of figures that are legitimate in a specific framework to respond to the permanent needs of services, whichever are.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u318	I ask you to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u319	I believe that, with PREVPAP, you would see a page, because PREVPAP does not end when everyone is integrated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u320	The next questions lie with Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, at this debate and at this point we already see that it is only worth thinking about those who are really worried about the precarious and not about those who only speak in the precarious to do political chicana. So let's go to the point: PREVPAP is not the only tool to combat precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u322	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u323	It's been said here. For example, in education, there are 7000 teachers covered by the extraordinary linkage and the norm-work has improved, which, only in this year of 2019, will bind more 566 teachers. In the field of science and higher education, there are the diplomas of scientific employment, which, only in the transitional standard, already have 1630 contracts concluded. There are other instruments still under way. In polytechnic higher education, there is the transitional standard, the qualification of teachers. This is not about PREVPAP, but more than 500 teachers have already entered for the career in this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we need to know what we're talking about when we're talking about PREVPAP. PREVPAP is to combat abuses, it is not to change the status of careers nor is to change the legal framework of institutions, because we cannot use an instrument that is precisely to prestigious and dignify public service and careers,... [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] ...disrespecting careers and disrespecting the legal framework. For example, invited teachers must exist. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] We cannot want to end this figure, which is necessary for higher education institutions, at the expense of an instrument that is not for that purpose. But I wanted to leave a question on the question of laziness. We naturally worry about this, but it has to do with the seriousness of the process. For example, in education, many requirements of operational assistants were presented in a way that could not be accepted and the services had the work to help applicants improve the requirements, so that they could be presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u324	You've finished the time you had, sir, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u325	I will finish, Mr. President. The hearings of interested parties take time, but are important to ensure the rights of applicants. My question is this: to what extent should we not be satisfied with this process be persistent? It's just that he's fairer...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u326	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u327	...and will do what has to be done, as long as it takes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u328	To reply, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u329	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, it is exactly as he says: the law is being met and every request is a person, he is a worker, who must and deserves to have, as has been well explained today, all respect and all appeals bodies within the scope of the CAB. It is clear that all the legal framework in Portugal applies and all guarantees will be given to all workers. But it is also true that it is necessary to provide financial guarantees that there is a way in which the State honours all its commitments. And I wouldn't honor my position as Minister of Finance if I didn't remember him here in this house. On the other hand, a party that said, open - minded, honoring itself for the financial responsibility to be with him, now has a certain tendency to make decisions and see if, later on, forward, it is possible to pay or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u330	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u331	Mr. Deputies, with this government, ended up being irresponsible. There are no more rectifications, there are no more spills, we are complying with the law, we will continue to comply with the law and so we will do it until the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u332	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u333	Are you going to say why you voted against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country knows that the PSD was opposed to how the programme of integration of precarious workers was designed. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, time has made sense to the PSD. The problems, delays, injustices created by PREVPAP have been so large that even — see! — the Bloc and the CFP, partners of this government, recognise that this programme needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u335	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u336	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have anticipated all these problems, but the fact is that we never thought that precariousness was also used as a political weapon against Madeira, by this government, on the part of your Government, and particularly on the part of the Minister and his already known obsession with Madeira. We never thought that precariousness was used to discriminate and treat Madeiran workers differently. And they don't think it's a Levian charge. Let us leave only two examples: that of the Madeira RTP and that of the University of Madeira. Mr Minister, how does it explain that the RTP, contrary to what it has done in relation to the workers of the continent and the Azores, rejected all the applications of workers of the RTP Madeira? How does it explain that these workers in Madeira RTP were the only ones in the country to stay out of PREVPAP? When will these problems be solved and when will these workers of Madeira RTP be integrated?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u337	Look, the PSD, when voting against, only helped!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u338	Another question: how does it justify that the government has not yet paid the University of Madeira the annual amount of about €224 000, necessary for the payment of the 21 precariouss of this important institution? Mr Minister, when will this money be paid and when will the government intend to resolve this and all the matters of Madeira workers? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u339	To reply, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u340	Mr President, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, with all honesty, I give you the same advice I gave to Mr António Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u341	You don't have to! But it is good to be accountable for your governance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u342	When the honourable Member is on duty in Madeira, in contact with his electorate, he may tell everyone who voted against the integration of the precariouss. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u343	Give the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u344	It is good not to forget what position each of us has taken in relation to this Programme. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u345	But it's good for you to keep an account of your governance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u346	What I can assure you, Madam Member, is that the CAB that has dealt with all the RTP requirements had exactly the same criteria for all RTP workers — I repeat, for all RTP workers — that is, in fact, the same behavior that Mrs Deputy has in relation to all the deficiencies, which is zero integrations. Mrs. Deputy wanted zero integrations! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the funds for the University of Madeira, they are within the respective budget and therefore the budgetary problem of the University of Madeira, with this dimension, as with all others, is treated at the same headquarters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u347	For the reply, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u348	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I just want to tell you that we do not accept advice from this government,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u349	...that it is a government that promises and does not comply, that it is a government that does not pay what it owes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u350	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u351	Let me tell you, Minister, that if there was a party that, during this legislature, pressed and presented, in this House, legislative initiatives... [[Rice from PCP MEP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u352	The PSD? Oh, my God! PSD voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u353	...to solve this problem of workers of the Madeira RTP and the University of Madeira, it was the PSD. [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Let me tell you something else, Minister: if there was a government that has solved the problems that your government has not yet been able to solve, with regard to teachers and nurses, it was the Regional Government of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u354	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u355	It must also be said that, as far as this Government and the Minister are concerned, the great conclusion we have drawn from this debate is that of the honourable Members. Ministers were not able to explain the underlying criteria, delays and injustices created, because PREVPAP is an instrument at the service of the government, not to solve the real problems of workers, but to continue electoral manoeuvres, to continue to divide and put Portuguese against Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u356	Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u357	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, as regards electoral manoeuvres, I cannot compete with the Regional Government of Madeira. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u358	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u359	As for decisions on teachers and nurses, we will have to ask the Regional Government of Madeira if you have money to pay for them. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] If the Regional Government of Madeira shows that it is budgetaryly responsible for the decisions it makes, we then talk. Until then, I see in this bench exactly the same irresponsibility as in the Madeira Regional Government. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u360	To put questions, I have the floor of Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u361	Mr President, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, the RTP problem is not the law we have done, it is the fact that the RTP administration does not comply with the law we have made nor the court decisions. So the question to ask is this: what will the Government and the Ministry of Culture do with the RTP Administration, which is in compliance with the law every day? The case of the IPMA, whose workers are in the galleries, is different. in this case, the requirements of 126 of the 200 workers were approved, but so far only 14 contests have been opened. This happens because the word is not unlocked,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u362	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u363	... a situation which is the responsibility of the Government and, in particular, of Minister Mário Centeno. On the IEFP, I also have a question to ask, Minister. He told us that there are 493 vacancies, but we know that the number of workers who have had a positive opinion is much greater. Therefore, I wanted the exact confirmation that the other workers will no longer be hired through a false green receipt, i.e. that there will no longer be recourse to green receipts in the IEFP. I would like to have an answer to this question. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u364	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u365	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, the Government's commitment has already been made very clearly: the integration of workers under the law of PREVPAP, and the reformulation of the model of work with other necessary workers in strict compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u366	No green receipts?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u367	It would not be serious for me to say that this will abolish everything and any green receipt. If IEFP needs someone's service for two days and the only way to do it...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u368	You can make a two-day contract!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u369	You may enter into a two-day contract or use a service provision if it is legal. The provision of services in Portugal is not illegal, Mr! What is illegal is your use against the law! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u370	But if there's a time...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u371	Sir, I ask you to understand what I am saying. It would be demagogic on my part to say that there will never again be a green receipt at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. What I'm saying is that there won't be a fake green receipt to spread a working relationship that has a subordination, whether it's shorter or longer. In addition, Mr Deputies, I recall that the new social protection regime for self-employed persons was discussed and approved with the support of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u372	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u373	Why can they not also work for the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training if they do so in the strict framework of the law? Oh, my God! I am referring again to what the Minister of Finance has already said: the Government is finishing this process and not deviating — until the Minister of Finance is here — the importance of the financial dimension of these operations, as important as it is the guarantee that the integration processes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u374	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u375	... meet the relative criterion of justice among all candidates. This is what is being worked and completed in the state laboratories so that all opinions are quickly transformed into duly legal employment contracts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u376	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for a very small reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u377	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you a very specific question about the framework of love. The Minister said in January that he was working on a new specific framework for women, but so far these workers do not know anything. They had a meeting at the Ministry of Labour and what they were told was that they were probably going to the general career. Because they don't know where they are, it was important to clarify it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u378	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u379	Mr President, I ask you for 10 seconds only to leave one last note: on our part, we are deeply committed to the success of PREVPAP, and we are not only committed to the success of PREVPAP...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u380	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u381	... but also that, following PREVPAP, there is no use of irregular situations and precarious work, which have been fattened in public services. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u382	Mr Vieira da Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u383	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming days, the notice of the invitation to tender for the integration of women in social security frameworks will be published.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u384	In general career?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u385	No, a specific career. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u386	To put questions, Mr José Rui Cruz of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u387	Mr. President, I welcome you. Ministers and the Ministers. State Secretaries. Mrs. Ministers, the fight against precariousness was assumed by this government, which presented the National Strategy for Combating Poverty under the 2017 State Budget, which resulted in PREVPAP. The Programme represents a serious effort and commitment within the framework of the political parties which constitute the current majority of Parliament. This commitment established that by 31 December 2018 all situations would be analysed. It is a fact that its conclusion did not take place as expected, but this is due to the nature of the regularisation process itself, which has its own competition timings, and to the fact that the whole course, with regard to the bureaucratic issue, results for employees in an increase in work, because it is also necessary to realize that there are many resources that need to be examined. However, PREVPAP has already made it possible to regulate some 17 000 situations. The Government's bill included contributions from all parties that have been in favour of this regularisation. It was thus possible to ensure that no one was excluded from the opportunity to submit a request for an assessment of his situation. in the same way, transparency and protection mechanisms were introduced into the process, which qualify and credible the Program, in order to meet its objective, contrary to what Mr Carlos Monteiro said. All of this, as mentioned above, has been done on the basis of an understanding in Parliament between the parties in favour of eliminating precariousness in public administration. In all this process, the PSD and the CDS did not present proposals and always voted against. What I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, that is the point of the precarious situation in relation to PT 2020, what has been done in this situation and what is the forecast to analyze the only about 1300 cases that are missing in this whole process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u388	You have the floor to answer Mr Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u389	Mr President, Mr José Rui Cruz, during this day the nature of PREVPAP has been discussed and if anyone, in particular the Government, is misleading workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the number of requests for integration into PREVPAP was not set by the Government, it was not an administrative number, it was not a political choice, it was the result of the demands of workers who considered themselves to be in a precarious situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the result of the additional contributions brought by the unions and was the result of the additional contributions brought by the Public Administration services. No one has been excluded from this procedure by the will of the Government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u390	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u391	It is true that in these more than 30 000 there have been, for example, more than 5500 workers who have already competed with a lasting bond with the State. Nothing had to be fixed there! They were not objectionable in this PREVPAP process. For this reason, it was done on the basis of this reality of who was effectively in a precarious situation, proven by the work of the committees. That is why there are favorable opinions of more than 4000 education workers, of about 4000 health workers, of more than 2000 workers in the area of social security and work. That is why the process is being a success in regularizing these workers, some of them in precarious conditions for decades. We have heard about other methodologies, but the public administration workers know these other methodologies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u392	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u393	It was the way of requalification, it was the way of dismissal in time. This is the way of integration, dignity and labour rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u394	You have the floor to put the next question, Mrs Carla Barros, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u395	Mr President, Minister of Labour, several times has been mentioned here by the trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. Yesterday we received an exhibition, which we had the care to analyze, from the trainers of the Centro de Formatação Professional de Vila Real. Like the exhibition of these trainees in Vila Real, we have been receiving many others over the years when the government has taken on the commitment to the integration of these workers and has not met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u396	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u397	The subject is the same, the subject and the exhibition: the problems for the fellows, for the workers of the RTP, for the professionals of education, for the health professionals, for the beneficiaries of the employment programmes, through the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, and therefore all heard the promise of the government. And the promise continues, but these workers see that the government comes out of this debate as it has entered, from back to back to the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u398	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u399	Mr Minister, let me tell you that the next few months will be dangerous for you. You know why? [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Because I look at you and I remember your participation in the last government of Eng. José Socrates. He is the same Minister, the same Minister! It is that minister who, in perfect election campaign, alongside Eng. José Socrates, promised the increase in pensions and then cut off, promised the increase in salaries to public servants and then cut off. [[PSD applause.]] And it promised the resolution of precariousness and increased it. This is the Minister Vieira da Silva, is the face of the Eng. José Socrates, it is the face of the Socialist Party, which led the country to bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] That's it, Minister! I like to see you look at me, face your eyes, the information I'm giving you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u400	Please finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u401	I will finish, Mr. President. Let me just mention one missing fact in this debate: that the PSD Government ended its legislation in 2015 with less precarious than the ones Mr. Minister invoked by his Government in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u402	You should be quiet! What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u403	Our Government has had fewer weaknesses than Mr. Minister has already created at the end of 2018. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u404	In reply, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u405	Mr President, Madam Member, if there is evidence that a political party loses a debate is when it is obliged to resort to the past to justify its own absences. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]] The clock is counting, but I think the time will be discounted for the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u406	Mr. Minister, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u407	I'll continue if you give me conditions for that. [[PSD Protests and PS Protests.]] The honourable Member, who knows the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, knows that the trainers of the same Institute were, until today, always hired the green receipt!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u408	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u409	What you know after this debate is that there are hundreds of workers from the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training who will be part of the frameworks of this Institute, even though this methodology is different from the one that Mrs. But I never told anyone what was the methodology to reduce green receipts at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our methodology is this, it is to realize it, as it is being done. And today, after this debate, we leave here knowing that at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training there will be more people with long-term employment contracts and there will be a guarantee that we will never again use the fake green receipt to meet their needs, even temporary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u410	You have the floor to reply, Mrs. Carla Barros. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u411	Mr. Minister, I didn't mean to get so upset, but you, indeed, were upset with this memory, with the retreat I made to your past. But let me tell you, Minister, that the workers and the Portuguese know well what the Socialist Party has done to the country and what the Government of Eng. José Socrates has done, in which you have participated. Workers know well that if they want rigor and seriousness in governance they can count on the PSD. [[BE, PCP and PS rice.]] In order to be able to say today that we are on the workers' side, the PSD has even had to vote against the methodology of integration of the precariouss that you have proposed. And, Mr Minister, we still do not understand the justifications it gives to fail to comply with the law in order to integrate thousands of workers until 31 December 2018! We left here without that answer. The compromise is not fulfilled, you have missed the word and the truth for the workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u412	Your time is up, Mrs. Member. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u413	We are going for election campaign and the Minister will once again have the opportunity to promise what he will never accomplish, as he once again did. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u414	Mr Vieira da Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u415	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, about promises that are not fulfilled and commitments that are not made, we could be here a long time to discuss and remember who promised not to cut taxes and not to cut pensions and did what he did! We could be here all afternoon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the honourable Member, who has even had responsibilities at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, never worried about the fact that the generality of her employees is the green receipt. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u416	But, Madam Member, in any other debate, we can say that we have already integrated 300 workers into the IEFP frameworks and that we will integrate more than 500 workers. This is the difference between those who exclude and those who include, between those who promise and fail to meet and who assume their responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u417	You have the floor, for a question on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Carla Tavares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u418	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was by the hands of the Socialist Party that the public administration workers saw the end of the requalification regime, which was no longer a passport for layoffs in public service. It was also by the hands of the Socialist Party and by the hands of the Government of the Socialist Party that the public service workers saw the end of the pay cuts, as well as the replacement of the working hours of 35 hours and the full payment of extraordinary hours. In order to enhance workers and increase the productivity and efficiency of the Public Administration, the PS and the Government of the Socialist Party put an end to the regime of qualification and special mobility, where the PSD and CDS government had placed thousands of workers, who would supposedly not be necessary for the state to be dismissed. Words such as « special mobility » and « requalification », so feared by the employees of the Public Administration, simply disappeared from the lexicon of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u419	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u420	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the CDS does not feed workers' frustrations, the CDS has caused these same frustrations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the CDS was not alone in feeding and being the cause of these same frustrations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u421	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u422	The CDS was next to you, keeping you company, the PSD. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we understand why PSD and CDS voted against PREVPAP. That's because, in fact, PSD and CDS always wanted precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If it were not, both the PSD and the CDS, during this long process of PREVPAP had tabled amendments. They say they do not agree with the methodology adopted, but never, at any time, neither the PSD nor the CDS presented any proposed amendment to PREVPAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u423	They have no proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u424	And why is that? Because the CDS and PSD didn't want PREVPAP to go ahead.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u425	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u426	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, little is what the PSD and CDS did to the employees of the Public Administration when they were in government. No, actually, it was not a little bit: the CDS and the PSD did nothing, strictly nothing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ministers, I ask you whether or not it is true that this government has not only regulated the precarious and legitimate links in the Public Administration, but also if, and in addition, it has hired more workers to deal with the lack of people in the most various services of the State, much because of the redeployment and special mobility, carried out by the previous Government of the PSD and the CDS and which has caused the known constraints on the operation of these same services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u427	In reply, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u428	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate we draw two conclusions. The first is that PREVPAP is a law that is being fulfilled. The process is at its final stage, we have more than 16 000 favourable opinions for integration into the frameworks of the Public Administration, without the local authorities, we have all the opportunities and guarantees given to all workers that their demands have been treated as often as necessary to reflect the truth of the labour relationship. This is a process that arrives several years and several decades after accumulation of difficulties. It is a process that the Public Administration deserved and will be completed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u429	I ask you to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u430	Very quickly, the second conclusion is that we have a party that, after all, had an alternative, a party that created the « bad currency », which placed the « bad currency » as prime minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u431	Bad currency?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u432	Minister, the correct word is broken!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u433	And that, a few months ago, he almost chose the "bad coin" to lead the party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u434	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u435	But, after all, it seems that what you have to present today is a "money" much worse than that which you have not chosen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u436	We have thus reached the end of this debate by thanking the members of the Government. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I ask the services that prepare the system so that we can sign up electronically. In the meantime, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report on some initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u437	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 1205 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Entity's Organization and Operation Law for Transparency and proceeds to 9. the amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November—Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court, which falls to 14. the Commission and Parliamentary Assessment No 131 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Decree-Law No 44 / 2019 of 1 April implementing the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of civil protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u438	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please register electronically. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 199 presences. These are also those of three Members who have not been able to make their electronic registration, the honourable Members. Deputies José Luís Ferreira, dos Verdes, and Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Susana Amador, of the PS. That is why 202 Members are present. Let us then start the votes. Let's start with Vote No 814 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PSD Members ) — Despite the death of Ricardo Chibanga, that Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u439	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The tourner Ricardo Chibanga died on Tuesday, April 16, at his home in Golegã, following a stroke suffered in early March. Born on November 8, 1942, in Lourenço Marques, current Maputo, in the neighborhood of Mafallala, was with the killer Manuel dos Santos who came to mainland Portugal. After a passage through the Badajoz and Mário León School of Brothers, he attended the Master's School of Toureio Patrício Cecílio, from Golegã — a town that he adopted as his own until today. He took alternative bull slaughterer in Seville, in Real Maestranza, on August 15, 1971, and became a national and international figure of the bull on foot. The first African tourman generated followers and admirers in several generations, raising admiration for Pablo Picasso or Salvador Dalí, among many others. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses condolences to the family, wife, daughter and grandson, and to the friends and admirers of Ricardo Chibanga. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u440	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP, the vote against the PAN and the abstentions of BE, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u441	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u442	Mr. Pedro Bacelar Vasconcelos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u443	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that Mr Luís Graça and I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u444	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u445	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u446	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u447	Mr President, I would just like to announce that I have just sent a statement of vote on this vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u448	Be registered. We passed to Vote No 817 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR ) — I regret the victims of the tragic accident in Caniccio, Madeira, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u449	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last April 17th, a tourist bus took place in the area of Caniccio, municipality of Santa Cruz, Autonomous Region of Madeira, causing the death of 29 passengers (German tourists) and causing injuries to 27 other occupants of the injured vehicle, two of which are natural and resident in Madeira. All the entities involved—Civil Protection of Madeira, police and security forces, relief teams, firefighters, health professionals of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and of Dr. Nelio Mendonça Hospital— acted with remarkable effectiveness and readiness, providing a service of high professionalism and humanism in the face of such a tragic adversity. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep sorrow and sorrow for the tragic road accident that took place on 17 April in the parish of Caniccio, council of Santa Cruz, Autonomous Region of Madeira, addressing the families and friends of the victims their most sincere condolences, as well as their solidarity with the authorities and the German people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u450	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now pass to Vote No 818 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR ) — Condemning and regrets the attacks in Colombo, Negombo and Battaloa, Sri Lanka. Secretary Sandra Pontedeira will please read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u451	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On the morning of April 21, Easter Sunday, several Christian temples and hotel units in the cities of Colombo, Negombo and Batticaloa, in Sri Lanka, were the target of bombings, causing more than three hundred fatal victims and a significant number of wounded. These vicious and repulsive attacks deserve our absolute condemnation, because they are perpetrated against innocent citizens, against life and against freedom, challenging our values and our model of society, based on respect for fundamental rights. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of the attacks in Sri Lanka and expresses the feelings of its deep sorrow and solidarity with the families of the victims, including that of the Portuguese citizen Rui Lucas, as well as with the authorities and the people of Sinhala. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u452	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 819 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member ) — Unfortunately, in recalling the victims of the 1915 Armenian genocide. Mr. Secretary Moisés Ferreira will do the favor of reading this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u453	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 24 April, international signs were made of the start of the massacres against the Armenian population, since it was on that date in 1915 that the Ottoman authorities arrested and executed 250 Armenian Community intellectuals and leaders in Constantinople, under the command of the Turkish Youth Government. In the years during and after World War I, it is estimated that between 800 thousand and 1 million people were killed as a result of the genocide. Systematic exterminance by the Ottoman authorities addressed to the Armenian minority in their territory is considered by the international community of historians as the first genocide of the 20th century. Massacres, forced labor, forced deportations and the marches of death, which led to the Syrian desert, including women, children, elderly and sick people subjected to thefts, rapes and periodic massacres, marked a black chapter in the history of humanity. The thousands who survived the atrocities committed were forced into religious conversion, sold to slavery, and those who managed to escape formed the dispersed world diaspora of Armenians. Other native and Christian ethnic groups, such as the Assyrians and the Ottoman Greeks, were also persecuted by the Ottoman government and its treatment is considered by many historians as part of the same genocidal policy. The main organizers of the genocide were sentenced to death or to imprisonment for their crimes in Ottoman military courts — 1919 - 2020 — however, the sentences of these courts have never been applied. This evocation contains a lesson for our time, because in view of the current level of nationalism, xenophobia and intolerance worldwide, it is essential to remember the abysses of the past. It is also through the culture of memory that the Assembly of the Republic reiterates its commitment to the defence of human rights and stresses the importance of strengthening dialogue among peoples, among religions, between cultures and among civilizations. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its sorrow for the victims of the 1915 Armenian genocide, thus preserving memory as an essential element of reconciliation between peoples and the defense of the fundamental values of humanity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u454	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Moisés Ferreira. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from 4 PSD (Alvaro Batista, José Cesario, Nilza de Sena and Pedro Roque).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u455	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u456	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u457	Mr President, I would like to inform the House and Mr President that Mrs Nilza de Sena, Mr Álvaro Batista and I will present a statement of vote on this vote myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u458	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u459	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u460	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u461	Mr President, I call on the House to inform it that this vote was not the subject of prior evaluation by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u462	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u463	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u464	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u465	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will make a statement on an individual basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u466	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u467	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u468	Mr. Pedro Bacelar Vasconcelos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u469	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u470	Thank you very much, Mr. It's all recorded. Then we'll be waiting for the statements. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u471	We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2127 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, under the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of measures to put Portugal on a sustained path of economic growth and employment. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 2128 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Stability Programme 2019 - 2023 and National Reform Programme. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 2125 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — By asserting the sovereign law of Portugal decides its future, by responding to the problems of the country. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the PSD abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2129 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Rejects the economic and budgetary strategy provided for in the Stability Programme 2019 - 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u472	Mr President, that is not the draft which follows for the vote. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u473	I'll say again what's in the vote script. We have for the vote draft resolution No 2129 / XIII / 4. the PSD, which is following the PCP and before another PSD project, and which is entitled « Rejects the economic and budgetary strategy provided for in the Stability Programme 2019 - 2023 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u474	It was our mistake, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u475	Can we vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u476	Yes, Mr. President. I'm sorry, it was our organization's failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u477	You're sorry. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 2129 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Rejects the economic and budgetary strategy provided for in the Stability Programme 2019 - 2023. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2130 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — For a strong and sustainable growth alternative. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 2020 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the dissemination of studies on populations of wild boars in the national territory and damage caused to farmers and the development of a plan of measures to control populations of this species. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Draft resolution low to 7. the Commission. We also voted for Resolution Project No 2030 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of insurance for agricultural crops covering damage to wild animals, the opening of specific notice in the PDR2020 to support investment in crop protection measures and the implementation of measures for the recovery of pigmeat. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We generally vote for Resolution No 2031 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the territorial distribution of the population of boar in Portugal. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u478	Mr President, the vote on the CFP is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u479	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u480	The javalis thank you. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft resolution No 2031 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the territorial distribution of the population of boar in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and the PAN and abstentions from BE and The Greens.]] The draft resolution is down to 7. the Commission. Still on the subject of javalis, we proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2075 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — By drawing up a situation plan and controlling the density of the population of wild boars, compensation to farmers affected by the damage caused by this species, measures to protect crops and prevent zoonoses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2042 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government establish a temporary moratorium regime for the common roll hunt. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Pedro Delgado Alves.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2059 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the protection of the common roller by means of a temporary moratorium on its hunting. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP and with votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Pedro Delgado Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u481	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u482	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u483	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, for the last two draft resolutions we have just voted on, the CFP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u484	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u485	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u486	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u487	Mr President, it is also to tell the Bureau that I will present a statement of vote on the subject that we have voted on, that of the boars and that of the common roll.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u488	A plural statement, therefore. Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are now moving on to a quite different subject, with a legislative initiative on assistance to bathers. We therefore vote, in general, the Bill No. 568 / XIII / 2. a (The Greens) — Assistance to bathers. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2091 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government conduct a forensic audit to the accounts of EMPORDEF and the Naval Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 795 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enable works to be carried out at Dr. Isidoro de Sousa School in Viana do Alentejo. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We voted for Resolution Project No 1845 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enable structural works to be carried out at the High School and the Basic School No. 1 of New Sales. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 672 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends urgent measures to enhance the cemeteries of our heroes. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and PS, BE and PAN abstentions.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 910 / XIII / 2. a (The Greens) — Diligence to eradicate the use of glyphosate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The vote on draft resolution No 2014 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions to limit the use of products containing glyphosate. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2080 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends better credit conditions to the Government for financing forest cleaning. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and abstentions from the PSD and the Greens.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 1522 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Requalification of the Secondary School of Barcelinhos and 1534 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — By the urgent rehabilitation of the Barcelos Secondary School. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the Non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Deputies of PS Hugo Pires, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Soares, Maria Augusta Santos, Nuno Sá, Sonia Fertuzinhos and the PS abstention.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on Bills Nos 873 / XIII / 3, follows. a ( PS ) — Amends Decree-Law No. 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme, 913 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Amends Decree-Law No. 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme 1012 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Amends the Family Hospitality Implementation Scheme by strengthening family reception, promoting an effective policy of deinstitutionalization of children and young people, and 1018 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2008 of 17 January approving the Family Care Implementation Scheme in order to create new rights in host families. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 1328 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to a set of actions aimed at depolating the rivers Antuã, Ul and Caima, located in the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés, 1360 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the intensification of actions to monitor and monitor polluting discharges and the implementation of an action plan for cleaning the Ul, Antuã and Caima rivers, 1378 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures for the depollution of the rivers Antuã, Ul and Caima, as well as for the rehabilitation of its surroundings, and 1393 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Urgent implementation of measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the rivers Antuã, Ul, Insua and Caima. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u489	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u490	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u491	Mr President, with regard to the previous vote on family reception, I would like to inform you that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u492	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 2041 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Development of epidemiological and environmental study to evaluate the effects of the labor of the National Siderurgia in the village of Paio Pires, municipality of Seixal, 2060 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government prepare an epidemiological and / or environmental study to assess the effects of economic activities, particularly industrial activities, as well as environmental liabilities in Paio Pires village, Seixal municipality, and 2083 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake an epidemiological and environmental study to assess the effects of industrial activities in the village of Paio Pires, in the municipality of Seixal, as well as the environmental impacts there. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 1009 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Regulates the right of association of maritime police personnel ( first amendment to Law No 9 / 2008 of 19 February ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed with the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the National Defence Commission on Bill No 1009 / XIII / 4. a, from BE, back identified. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u493	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u494	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u495	Mr President, there was a geometry of votes other than that which existed in the Commission and therefore the replacement text, which had been approved in the Commission, had not now been approved in plenary. The speciality vote is therefore detrimental.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u496	Exactly. The same is true of the overall final vote on the same replacement text. We will move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 959 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establishs impediments in the decision on processes of institutionalization of children and young people at risk. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 150 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the regime for the exercise of private security and self-protection activity. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u497	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u498	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u499	Mr President, it is only to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a declaration of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u500	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u501	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u502	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u503	Mr President, it is for the same purpose that I will present a personal statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u504	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u505	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u506	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u507	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u508	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u509	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u510	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u511	Mr President, the vote script follows a request from the PCP for a full vote in the specialty of Bill No 349 / XIII / 2. a. I would like this request to be replaced by an oral request, which will be submitted by Mr Jorge Machado, in accordance with Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u512	The possibility of the application is to be presented orally and may not exceed two minutes. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u513	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party advocates for plenary all articles of the PCP bill that approve the status of the police condition, because what happened in the field of specialty is scandalous and deserves clarification at the center of discussion in plenary. After the legislative initiative had become invalid, the PSD and also the CDS, in an important part of the articles in which they voted against or abstained, rejected the bill. The creation of the status of the police condition, with its inherent rights and obligations, constitutes an important basis for progress and the conquest of rights for all professionals who contribute to the security levels that the country has. Having presented a proposal to meet the demands of these professionals, for their professional recognition and recognition, and after this proposal has been approved in general, it becomes particularly incomprehensible that, in the final phase of the process, the PSD and also the CDS, in the part where they voted against, have given the PS the votes that he alone would not have to lead all the articles of this legislative initiative and thus frustrate the expectations created by the personnel of the security forces and services. PSD, CDS and PS prove once again that all the words of praise and appreciation of the work in favor of the country are no more than conversation of circumstances and slots of any content that effectively values these professionals. The PCP Parliamentary Group does not give up this fair claim, so it has advocated to plenary all the diplomas relating to the status of the police condition and will not give up this achievement which is important for effectively valuing the professionals of the security forces and services that provide an important service to the country and which must be valued. Unfortunately, PS, PSD and also the CDS, in an important part of the articles, gave the saying by not saying...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u514	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u515	... and rejected the legislative initiative of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u516	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the request by the PCP for a vote by the plenary of the Bill No 349 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Approves the status of the police condition. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS and the non-registered Member and votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] I believe that, since there has been no approval in the specialty of any point, the overall final vote of this bill is damaged. In any case, if they demand... [[Pause.]] It is noted that it is damaged, with the agreement of all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u517	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u518	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u519	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u520	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u521	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u522	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u523	Mr President, the PSD wants to ask you to correct your vote on draft resolution No 2125 / XIII / 4. a, from the PCP, by the affirmation of the sovereign law of Portugal decide of its future, by the response to the problems of the country. We had abstained, but our vote is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u524	Mr President, this does not change the outcome of the vote, but this amendment is recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u525	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u526	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u527	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the bill No 349 / XIII / 2. a, to prove the status of the police condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-26.u528	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, paragraphs 47 to 57 of the Journal are hereby approved for the plenary meetings of 1, 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22 and 27 February 2019. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The next plenary meeting will take place on Thursday, 2 May, at 3 p.m., with the fifteen-year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Thank you all very much. Good afternoon and good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 59 minutes.]]
