ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries to the public. Mrs. Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the agenda for today, are generally assessed by Bill No 1144 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities. To open the debate and present the bill, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A market economy with ethical responsibility implies that if the State, on the one hand, should not interfere in economic life, on the other hand, it also has a duty to ensure healthy, transparent and without abusive practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u4	Especially because the distribution of the costs and benefits of regulation and supervision is normally asymmetric: the benefits benefit some while the costs are shared by everyone. We need a supervision and regulation that works, that actually works, that they are strong in action and vigilant in the zeal with which they guard the mistakes and abuses that, being only a few, are then paid by all Portuguese. This is only possible with regulation and supervision that are truly independent of the government, and not dependent on its instructions, preferences and complicities. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In recent years, we have seen attempts to support the regulation and the appointment of its members, which are at least a warning sign. Just as attempts to condition regulators through captivating are also completely unacceptable. Today we present a project that aims to change the rules for the appointment of members of so-called independent administrative entities, i.e. regulators and supervisors. We propose a tripartite method of appointment which can be briefly summarized in the following sentence: the Government proposes, the Assembly of the Republic hears and the President of the Republic appoints. In order to have stronger, more independent regulation and supervision, but at the same time more responsible and more scrutinyable, it is also necessary that its appointment method and people's choice correspond to that intention. We are not doing this now for the first time, as we have already presented a project with this same objective in 2009. In no field is it as visible the distribution of the costs of oversight failures as in banking and banking matters. Here, in fact, the costs have been shared by all in a loud way, and this has fundamentally affected two characteristics that supervision has to enjoy, but which also has to deserve: trust and credibility. over the last decade, we have been witnessing successive interventions and problems in many Portuguese banks. It began with the nationalization of BPN, whose account was increased over the years, after the collapse of BPP and the problems in the BCP and later with the resolution of BES. Even more recently, with the sale of Banif to Santander, with the recapitalization of the General Deposit Box and with the sale of the New Bank, the consequences of which still recently became evident and which unfortunately will probably continue to make themselves felt in the future. The CDS has always had a critical position with regard to financial supervision. It's been like this ever since. Even today, when we seek the origin of almost all the problems of the Portuguese banking system, there we find the supervision Vítor Constâncio. over the years, and already after this consulate, we do not stop asking questions and having a demanding position with regard to Banco de Portugal and the other regulators. Already at the Congress where the party president was elected in 2016, we considered supervision as one of the country's priorities. in this regard, the government has multiplied in interventions, many contradictions between themselves, almost always ensuring that the problems of the financial system are solved but is sadly denied by reality too often. In 2017, we promote here a debate on the subject, with concrete proposals, which several other parties joined together. at the time, the government acknowledged that the cases in Portugal showed several failures in regulation and financial supervision, weakening the credibility and reputation of the national authorities to which the relevant regulatory and supervisory functions were entrusted. However, the Government also ensured that the enormous difficulties faced by this system at the end of 2015 were certainly corrected by the Government with institutional cooperation with the Banco de Portugal, the CMM, the insurance association with all existing financial regulators in Portugal, in addition to ensuring that the government had been working with commitment and in depth on a proposal for the reform of the financial supervision model. Moreover, the Government said that this proposal, which would be known shortly, should provide the system of supervision of greater rationality, greater effectiveness, with less overlaps and redundancy and greater capacity to act by the supervisory authorities. The reality of these two years has shown that neither the proposal was known briefly - will only be known now, almost two years later - nor the difficulties of the financial system, to use an euphemism, have been corrected. The gross errors that have been made in the General Deposit Box have not, unfortunately, yet been duly scrutinized and their authors have not yet been held accountable. We had an excellent opportunity to do this in a committee of inquiry whose end was precipitated by the PS, the PCP and the Block, even before essential documents were known. We now have a new opportunity, with a new committee of inquiry. Portugal lost, however, two years. The sale of the New Bank, with a strange mechanism of accountability of the Loss Resolution Fund, has also shown how far the problems are to be solved.The Resolution Fund can of course only respond to these losses with large loans from taxpayers. And a few days ago we learned that these losses add more than EUR 1000 million in 2018 alone. We do not know what counts will be presented in the coming years, but assessing the future from the recent past will do nothing good in this matter. The Banco de Portugal has certainly to explain how the assets that have been transferred to the New Bank can now be causing such widespread losses. It is therefore particularly relevant to discuss now a method of appointment which preserves the independence of Banco de Portugal, but which also makes its performance more subject to scrutiny. But the government must also explain, as far as the New Bank is concerned, because it has chosen to move this account forward at the same time as ensuring that all problems were solved. along the way, we have also seen, in the last few weeks, one more problem with the Montepio Mutualist Association, which is the owner of a bank. After the failed attempt, but supported by Minister Vieira da Silva, to put the Santa Casa da Misericórdia in Lisbon to make a capital injection in the Banco Montepio, we now see the show of the Government and the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds to pass the responsibility for assessing the suitability of members of the Montepio Mutual Association, which is the bank's owner. In other words, in the face of exemplary sanctions—but not exactly prompt— applied to the President of this Association, it remains the same Association to decide who runs the bank. And between legal opinions and doctrinal discussions, the situation is dragged without anyone being held responsible for assessing their suitability. To strengthen supervision and regulation, we propose this method of appointment involving three different sovereignty bodies: the Government, which proposes, the Assembly of the Republic, which makes the hearings, and the President of the Republic, which appoints. The intervention of three different sovereignty bodies ensures independent regulators, consensual solutions and effective bodies. It is a solution that the CDS has been defending for almost 10 years and today, even though many amendments have already been introduced, in particular through a new framework law, it continues to make sense. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We want to apply it to the Banco de Portugal, but also to the Supervision Authority for Insurance and Pension Funds, to the CMM, to the Competition Authority, to the Regulatory Body for Energy Services, to the National Communications Authority, to the National Civil Aviation Authority, to the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport, I.P. ) , the Regulatory Entity of Water and Waste Services and the Regulatory Health Entity. In conclusion, it should be clear that this proposal does not intend to solve all the problems of the bank in Portugal or all the problems of regulation in Portugal. We do not confuse supervisory problems with very real management problems that have crossed several banks and we have brought here to Parliament many other concrete proposals that have been waiting for two years for the government to finally say what it wants to do in this area. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But we also know that the sharing of responsibilities and the increase of entities, which the Government now seems to defend as a supervisory reform, can improve efficiency, but it can also result in a shift from one responsibility to another, as we have seen in many cases in the past and apparently continue to see in Montepio. We understand that it is a proposal that can raise some issues, particularly constitutionally, because this competence of the President of the Republic is not expressly envisaged. For this reason, we put it again in front of the table immediately at the beginning of the Parliament in 2017, calling on all parties in this Parliament to reflect on it in time, with serenity and with responsibility. It's been two years, ladies. Members, and now, that we are now at the end of the legislature, there is something that seems, or will seem, obvious to all who are seeing us out there: if we all agree that this is the best way to name these regulators, then it will certainly be possible to approve this bill. There has been a lot of time to consider, now is the time to decide! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u5	Madam Member, six Members have signed up for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u6	I respond to two sets, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u7	For this reason, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has already given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cecilia Meireles : The idea of the appointment of independent administrative entities by the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government and after their hearing in the Assembly of the Republic, is an idea of the PSD which was launched in 2007.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u9	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u10	The PSD was thus the first party to defend the appointment of these entities in a tripartite manner at a time when another party did not defend it. at the time, as now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we advocate the imperative of independence of independent administrative entities. Organic independence, political, technical and organisational financial autonomy of these entities are fundamental to ensuring impartiality in regulation. The PSD has always defended greater independence from these entities before the government and a greater specialty, neutrality and technicality of regulation. We continue to believe that the intervention of the President of the Republic can strengthen the independence of these entities, promote the de-government and de-politicization of the economic sector. We do not give up on the idea or change our opinion, as other parties did, but, as we said in 2013, we believe that this amendment implies a constitutional review, since it is not possible to extend the powers of the President of the Republic on an ordinary basis. This, unlike the position expressed here by the CDS in this regard, has been quite sinuous. As we can verify from history, the CDS has already said something, now said its opposite. I am glad that it evolved into the PSD position, because in 2007 it defended the parliamentaryization of the appointment process and then changed its position, starting to defend the presidentialization. In 2007 the CDS criticized the unconstitutionality of the measure, but now we realize, so it was said in the intervention of Mrs Cecilia Meireles, who recognized the problem of the constitutionality of the measure. Even in February this year, the leader of the CDS admitted to advancing, still in this legislature, with a constitutional review for the Governor of the Banco de Portugal to be appointed by the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not think that the change of opinion, in itself, is not a problem, although the change of the CDS has evolved, but we find it appropriate to put some questions here to the CDS. Does the CDS believe that a constitutional review is necessary to assign these powers to the President of the Republic? So the CDS defended a constitutional review so that the President of the Republic could designate two vowels for the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry and no longer defend the same for the President of the Republic to appoint independent administrative entities? We would like to know the difference for the CDS in these two situations. The other question I want to ask, ladies and gentlemen. Members, stick to the path chosen by the CDS. Why did the CDS choose to present this proposal at this time and did not present it as an amendment to the framework law of the administrative entities and the Organic Law of Banco de Portugal? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much more important than discussing the form is discussing the content. It is undeniable that today there is a serious problem of disrespect for independent administrative entities by this left-wing majority. The Socialist Government and the parties that support it have done everything, but even everything, to weaken independent administrative entities. There are numerous examples and attempts to condition the independence of these entities. For the Government, it is worth everything: since launching campaigns to discredit these entities - it is good to remember that Antonio Costa regretted in March 2017 the failure in the forecasts of the Council of Public Finance — to compromise its financial autonomy. It is also worth remembering here that the left, in September 2018, led a PSD project to ban captive regulatory entities. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no more revealing example that this government is even available to everything to condition these entities than the frequent and usual socialist political appointments. Therefore, party militancy is more important than technical competence. I put a final question: do you not think the CDS is essential to combat the lack of independence of administrative entities and not to fight its model? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u11	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, with this debate and with the bill presented here, the CDS comes, once again, to praise the independent administrative entities. in the explanatory statement of the bill it is even read that « the State should not interfere in economic life ». Mrs Deputie, the constitutional challenge which euphemistically mentioned in your project begins, first of all, in this conception, contrary to the constitutional principles relating to economic organization, namely Article 80. the Constitution. in reality, the independent administrative entities serve, in a framework of liberalizing and privatizing options of the national economy assumed by successive governments at the expense of the Constitution, to facilitate the realization of these options and to disresponsibility of the State of its economic functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u14	But even though we are not aware of the differences in the concept of what the State should be doing in the economy, we can exercise our attention to the current reality and prove whether or not these independent administrative entities are fulfilling their role as market regulation. Let us see the financial market supervisory bodies, which have played an excellent role. Isn't that true? A decade ago, the Portuguese watched, astonished, at the collapse of a small private bank, BPN, under the beards of supervisors and regulators. A disqualification that has so far cost more than EUR 4 billion to the Portuguese. It was not necessary to wait long until, from the pleasing look of the independent supervisors, another private bank collapsed, the BES, at a cost of billions of euros, a cost not to increase, currently reaching about EUR 6 billion. Again, it was not necessary to wait long for another private bank to collapse, Banif, at a cost of EUR 3000 million for taxpayers. And while the PS, PSD and CDS feed the illusion that these imbalances can be avoided by the supervisory and regulatory action of the independent administrative entities, notably the Banco de Portugal, Portuguese are disbursing billions of euros to cover the holes of the private bank. The CDS has such a big weight in consciousness that it has retrained Carlos Costa to Banco de Portugal that now, with this bill, it intends to pretend that it has nothing to do with the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u15	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u17	The solution passes, as the CFP has persistently defended, by the public control of the financial sector and by the State fully assume its responsibilities in this sector, including in the supervision, as in other economic sectors, rather than withdrawing and handing over these responsibilities to self-employed administrative entities that do not defend the public interest, which are often captured by the sectors that should regulate and which serve the purpose of facilitating the realization of liberalizing and privatization options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u18	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u19	Mr President, first of all I reply to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, saying that if the PSD agrees with this proposal and if you want to discuss only the fact that you were the first to have this idea, I believe that we can leave this debate with a new bill, which can then become a law and a new method of appointing regulatory entities. But, Mrs. Member, I will have to tell you that the CDS has been defending this idea for 10 years. We presented for the first time a project in 2009 and did not give up the idea over the years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u21	If the PSD, over the years, has resolved to set it aside, be welcome now, because it is a good idea and can function fundamentally to change some important aspects of regulation in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] On the constitutionality of this matter, yes, we realize that some people...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u22	Some? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u23	... raise this question, but we understand that this law is possible. Why? Because the question that we are talking about simply has to do with the fact that this competence for the President of the Republic is not expressly envisaged for these bodies, which, in our view, can be exceeded by law. In fact, this is not just our point of view, because other parties also presented this idea over the years. But we were careful, above all, to put the idea on the table right at the beginning of the Legislature, in time and time and when there was all the time in the world to discuss it. If we all believe in that idea and if there is a large majority that supports it, then it is up to us to make it possible. If the other parties understood not to take care of this matter, then they cannot now say that the CDS has to forget the idea because they want it to be forgotten. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member spoke, and it is true, of the fight necessary for the lack of independence of the regulators and the subsequent attempts of the Government to support regulatory entities and supervision. Mrs Deputy, I agree when you say it is necessary to fight the lack of independence, so the CDS presented this project. But are we going to fight how? Shall we protest? That, yes, we did. I ask you: is that enough? I don't think so. I think this method is better, more institutional and gives a lot more assurances. Mr Duarte Alves said that the concept of the CFP on economics was different from that of the CDS. It's true! But I would like to remind you that, looking at the growing countries and, above all, the countries where people live better, the conception of the CDS has proved that it works. The concept of the CFP, looking at the countries of the world in which it has been applied—and unfortunately many have been—has not led to anything but to the misery of the peoples. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] If you have any doubts, I suggest that you go to Venezuela to see exactly what your conception means, in practice, in the lives of many people and what it is that there are no regulators, no independence, no private economy and the state all control and in everything command. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] What happens is that there are totalitarian States with people living in absolutely degrading conditions. So, Mr, yes, it is true: we start from different conceptions and with different results. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Now, and because we are talking about options, I would like to remember that the CFP argues, in relation to the bank, that everything must be nationalized, that the solution to all these problems would be the nationalization of everything. I draw attention to the following: in the case of BPN, this process only gave rise to a much larger account for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u24	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u25	Secondly, because we are talking about responsibility and this project also allows to increase the vote on regulatory entities, it agreed that the CFP, which has supported this government over the past three years and that it has not had any of these ideas, or at least did not impose any of these ideas on the government while supporting it, speaking of responsibility, scrutiny and taking the opportunity to explain, since it disagrees so much about all this, because it has adopted all the measures that the Government has intended to take and, in particular, because it has continued to approve — in the last budget — the money of taxpayers who will be lent to the resolution fund to pay for the holes of the New Bank. If they are so in disagreement, why do they continue to vote in favour? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u26	We moved on to the second group of requests for clarification. To this end, Mrs Mariana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u27	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, before we move on to the discussion of the CDS initiative — the Bloc will develop what it thinks about it and the problems it wants to solve — there are three questions I would like to ask you. in the project presented by the CDS is referred to—and Mrs Cecilia Meireles also admitted it in her speech—that some people question its constitutionality. I would like to densify what is meant by'some people', because among these people are the advisors and all of the technical consulting part of the Assembly of the Republic which made a technical opinion in which they say that this project is unconstitutional. These « some people » are those who make the legal advice of the Assembly of the Republic and « some people » are also the Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who gave an opinion approved by a majority and with the abstention of the CDS, in which the unconstitutionality of this project is pointed out. Therefore, these'some people' who think that the project is unconstitutional are so many that the CDS Members have not voted against the opinion that it alerted to the unconstitutionality of this proposal. The first question I would like to ask you, then, is the following: what does the CDS intend to do with a project that is unconstitutional and that so many people understand that it is unconstitutional? The other two questions I'm going to ask are about the content of what brought us here. The CDS makes harsh criticism of Banco de Portugal, harsh criticism of Governor Carlos Costa, harsh criticism of Banco de Portugal in the case of BES and the other cases of bankruptcy and overthrow of the bank. My question is relatively simple. In 2015, the commission of inquiry had already concluded that there were serious failures in the operation of Banco de Portugal. Why did the PSD and CDS government retrain Carlos Costa in front of Banco de Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u29	Sounds like a simple question to ask. There were already serious failures, it was already known that the Governor was incompetent and, still, the Governor was remanded in front of the Banco de Portugal for another five-year term. Why? Third question: if the problem is the incompetence or inability of Banco de Portugal to supervise the financial system, why does the project that the CDS now presents not fall within the rules of exoneration of the Governor of Banco de Portugal? It is that the problem is not the way it is named, the problem is the way it removes an incompetent governor. And about that I don't think this project brings anything new and solves the problem. In fact, it seems to me more that this project serves to solve a CDS problem and not necessarily banking supervision. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u30	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the CDS today brings up a draft law which aims to establish « the appointment and termination regime of the members of the governing bodies of independent administrative entities ». The CDS, with its desire to legislate to try to clear its past responsibilities, has forgotten to amend the framework law of independent administrative entities created by it. Therefore, should this project be approved, it would have to be asked: what legislation would apply at the time of appointment? The framework law or the current one? More: the CDS says that, with this initiative, it wants to increase the independence of these administrative entities. However, reality shows us that if there is a mark of the so-called independent entities, they are not independent at all. They serve only for the alleged technical neutrality, but, fundamentally, these regulatory entities serve as a second government that is not accountable to voters and with decisions on which the government says nothing. Let's look at the case of the Health Regulatory Entity. in the report published in February of this year on the deliberations completed during the 4. the quarter of 2018, it is found that of the 28 deliberations issued, only 6 are related to private entities, 4 to PPP ( public-private partnerships ) and 18 to SNS ( National Health Service ) institutions. This simple example well reveals the non-independence of these entities. Are there only problems in the SNS? Of course not! But it is easier and more desirable to regulate the public than the private one. Madam Member, I would like to ask you, in particular, when we have this pattern of action by the so-called "independent" entities, do you really think that it is changing the form of appointment that is changing? The PCP reaffirms no! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u32	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u33	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mrs Carla Cruz for their questions. First of all, by going to parties, I would like to explain why we abstained from the opinion of 1. the Commission. Mrs. Member, I have already seen many ways to prevent discussion of projects and I know very well that one of them is to put them in the drawer even before they arrive at the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u34	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u35	Well, we wanted to discuss it in plenary. Of course I do! We wanted to discuss this in plenary and therefore abstained from opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u37	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u38	Secondly, I would like to ask a question about constitutionality, because I hear many questions about this. The gentlemen. Do you really think that there is some fundamental, material reason, that is related to the material principles of our Constitution and that this project violates? Is there any aspect in which he violates the principle of the separation of powers or even the economic principles enshrined in the Constitution or independence between sovereign bodies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u40	Is there anything in this project that violates these material principles? Is there any reason for your unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u41	There! Article 133. Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u42	There! There!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u43	I don't think so, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. I don't think so! I believe that when we are faced with a project that does not really want to be approved, we invoke the question of constitutionality in order to have a good excuse for rejecting it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u44	That time has passed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u45	from our point of view, I think these issues should be kept for when they are really accurate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] On the question of Banco de Portugal, Mrs Mariana Mortágua says: « We believe that the problem is not just of appointment, it is of exoneration ». But if the question is to have rules on exoneration, we are available to discuss the subject in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u46	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u47	Let that be clear here! But this project is not just about Banco de Portugal, it is also about all regulators. Therefore, I would like to reply to Mrs Carla Cruz, who acknowledges and says that regulators do not work well and are not independent, unless the honourable Member defends her extinction, which is what I believe,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u49	... and I have had the opportunity to explain why I disagree with that solution and how far it can lead, giving some practical examples that, sadly, some Portuguese feel in the skin, such as the current situation in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u50	Have you stopped talking in the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u51	But I would like to tell you that if you think something can be changed, if you think that Parliament must also have a different role in this appointment, then you have an excellent opportunity here. Vote in favour and let your vote correspond to what you say. In fact, it will be a new experience for the PCP, which, over the past three years, has been systematically saying one thing and voting another. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u52	If you want to be a Member in Venezuela, you have to apply there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u53	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you have two further requests for clarification. The first is Mr. José Luís Ferreira of The Greens. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be a problem between the PSD and the Paternity CDS about the idea, but on that I just meant: you understand! Mrs Cecília Meireles will certainly be reminded that when we discussed in the House less than two years ago the amendments to the framework law of independent administrative entities, which had, in fact, a strong contribution from the Greens, we put forward proposals not only to seek to moralize the salaries of administrators but also to strengthen the system of incompatibilities and impediments and, above all, to ensure independence and transparency in the appointment processes. In fact, and without losing sight of the fundamental position that the Greens have in terms of independent regulation, the fact is that, since this regulation is effective, we believe that, while existing, it should be managed with rigour, exemption, transparency and, above all, with complete independence. It is even necessary to find mechanisms to avoid situations such as those that occurred in the past, when for example the PSD/CDS Government completely ignored the opinion issued by the Assembly of the Republic, having appointed administrators to whom it had been assigned a negative opinion by this House. In fact, one of the cases happened even with an appointment which passed directly from the office of the former Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro to a regulatory entity, despite the negative opinion of the specialized committee of the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, it is really necessary to change the appointment process. But it does not seem to us that the solution that the CDS-PP presents to us is the most appropriate one, as, moreover, we have already had the opportunity to say at other times. We believe that the solution goes through strengthening the role of the Assembly of the Republic, particularly in the appointment process, relativising the role of the Government, whose immediate interests on the markets regulated by these entities constitute a greater risk of instrumentalization. Therefore, it seems to us that, in order to ensure independence, it would be sufficient for the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic to be binding, i.e. the members of the board of directors to be appointed, after the mandatory and binding opinion of the Assembly of the Republic, at the request of the Government and accompanied by the opinion of the CRESAP ( Committee on Recruitment and Selection for Public Administration ). What I would like to ask you, Madam Member, is whether it is even necessary for us to enter into paths that conflict with constitutional requirements to ensure the independence of independent administrative entities, when it would simply be enough for the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic to be binding, without involving the intervention of the President of the Republic, which, as is commonly accepted, even by the CDS, conflicts with constitutional requirements. Madam Member, there is yet another more technical and formal aspect that has to do with the fact that the CDS proposes a specific law for the appointment of administrators of independent administrative entities when we have a framework law for such entities. In our view, it would be much more sensible and far more correct, up to the legislative point of view, that this matter should be envisaged and enshrined in the framework law itself and not in an avulge law. But this is a secondary issue in view of what is at stake, because what we want to see, in fact, are the reasons that lead the CDS-PP to escape from the binding nature of the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic and to literally exclude CRESAP from the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u55	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, we have listened carefully to the presentation you made of your bill, beginning with the proclamations and pious votes with which the CDS usually initiates these debates on regulatory entities. The first perplexity that arises, above all from the broad scope of your proposal, i.e. all the so-called "independent administrative entities", has to do with the responses that the CDS faces to the real problems of the country, the economy and the population. So I ask the following question: before the prices of fuels, for example, which are photocopies of each other, in view of the impunity that remains in this sector, the answer that you have is the appointment by the President of the Republic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u58	You have changed the law to withdraw powers from ANACOM (National Communications Authority) in the face of the closures of the mail stations while privatizing the TTCs, and now they are attacking ANACOM as no one has ever done?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u59	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u60	And now they respond to the people, the users, the postal workers, saying that the best thing is to be the President of the Republic to appoint ANACOM? Oh, my God! You have appointed the current president of ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), who passed from ANA Airports and Portway, i.e., from one day to the next, from regulated to regulator, and at that time allowed that person's maturity to go from 6000 to 16 000 € per month.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u61	Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u62	And now, after all they have done, the answer is that the appointment for the President of the Republic is the solution they have to propose? Oh, my God! I would ask the honourable Member to clarify the scope of your proposal, in view of the problems arising from the political options that you have taken, from the legislative options that you have imposed, and even from the appointments which you have made. Therefore, at the end of these years, bringing this proposal is at least doubtful, not to say anything worse. Now, as far as independence is concerned, there is one issue which cannot fail to be mentioned, about the regime of incompatibilities and impediments, which, in fact, has to do with the ANAC issue we have already raised. The link between regulators to regulated companies, to the power of economic groups, is also an issue and the question I am asking is very objective: why, in your proposal, do they not prohibit any contractual link or relationship, which is foreseen and in force in the framework law, referring only to the position with executive functions? Mrs. Member, what do you want to release? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u63	It is time for Mrs Cecilia Meireles to respond to these two requests for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u64	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr. José Luís Ferreira and Mr. Bruno Dias, starting by replying to Mr. Bruno Dias, who asked whether we now want to change something about the price of fuels with the method of naming the regulator. No, sir. In this respect, the answer we found was not in fact to change the method of appointment, it was to propose that the increase in taxes that the PCP, the Left Block and the PS voted here for fuels should be eliminated. That was the answer we gave to the price of fuels and its increase. Only that the honourable Member and his party voted against this proposal, so the increase in taxes made by this government with the help of the CFP and fuel prices remained higher. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u65	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u66	And we recognize the regulator's power. Attention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u67	In fact, I did not say, nor will anyone ever say, that changing the method of naming regulators solves the problem of governments and some parties, such as the CFP, want to increase taxes. In fact, this problem does not solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u68	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u69	What you want, I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u70	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever changes in the field of expertise, we have an opening to debate; what the CDS does not have to open is apparently what you are saying. Ladies and gentlemen, you think we should do something, that is, nothing! The gentlemen. Members believe that something cannot be done for this reason and for a number of reasons, but in reality they do not put what they think is possible to do in order to have stronger and more independent regulation. If you think that happens, too, by increasing Parliament's powers, we are available to discuss it, but the intervention of three sovereign bodies has a very different weight. Moreover, this method is part of the assumption that the President of the Republic will, of course, weigh the hearings in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u71	They have more confidence in him than in yourselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u72	Mr José Luís Ferreira, if you talk to me about CRESAP's intervention, I think it is better not to talk about what CRESAP has become with the intervention of this government. It is only if, in times of fact, you have been supervising appointments at this time, where this function of CRESAP is already going! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u73	We now move on to the intervention period. Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the PSD we are acquitted defenders of constitutional democracy, with the separation and limitation of public authorities, with a President elected directly and supraparted, with a plural parliament, a government with majority legitimacy, but also with independent courts and a Public Administration in which the criterion of public interest and technical capacity prevail. We believe in the free and competitive market economy that in the most sensitive competitive sectors it is regulated by specialized and independent administrative entities: independent of the interests of the regulated and powerful groups; independent of the political-party interests; independent of the interests of the majority and the conjuncural government; independent of the personal interests of the individual who, at each time, is in the regulator. Independence which guarantees a public decision guided by the public interest rather than the position of privilege, promiscuity or proximity to political power. in our view of democracy there are no absolute independences. All powers are limited, subject to some form of scrutiny and accountability. The Portuguese experience of two decades of independent regulation is globally positive. But, we have recorded, and we have recorded, several failures, omissions and errors that show that no power, nor this power of independent regulators, can be left out of control. Mr President, for the PSD, independence cannot be absolute, but there must be effective and protected independence. Unfortunately, this is not unanimous thought in this House. on the far left side, Left Block and PCP do not accept economic freedom, the more competition, even though regulated. They prefer direct centralism, always controlled by the party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u75	All the kids are missing for breakfast!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u76	The party at the beginning and the end. Worse: they forget the lessons of history, of the disasters of supposed democracies, effectively totalitarian, in which the freedom and well-being of the peoples were ravaged by tyrannys of supposed majority...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u77	Explain why you've been retraining Carlos Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u78	...or by populism demagogues.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u79	Tell Carlos Costa there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u80	Yes, I explain, Mr. João Oliveira. We could go back there and remember how in ancient Greece the Socrates « good» was murdered; or how, after the French Revolution, terror was launched.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u81	That's a diversion!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u82	But we can come to Portugal, for the post-25 April, and remember what, at the time, was called Sovietization, but today it can be called chavitization or venezelization of our country, who tried to... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u83	...in the hot summer of 75. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] But the Socialist Party, the current one, indeed, like that of Socrates "bad", which, in essence, is the same — they are practically the same to direct it and in the same way — is a little more sophisticated. in the words, defend the free and market economy, accept competition and say—in words! — in accordance with the independent economic regulation. But in practice, in practice, in the governance of the state and political powers, this Socialist Party... [[PS Member Protest Fernando Anastácio.]] ... what it does is to feed and live the privileges, to manage the proximity of power, to weaken independent institutions. And it begins right away by the Executive, who is not here today and is sorry. They razed all the republican ethics, consisting of a government made up of family ties that inevitably compromise mutual scrutiny and generate conflicts of interest that weaken the search for the public interest. But in the repeated socialist practice, the appointment, as we have seen, of successive party or family leaders for the most diverse top positions in the Public Administration and independent regulators is followed. [[PS protests.]] Let us not forget, and let us not forget, the attempt to appoint a socialist Member, without the minimum technical qualification, ahead of an independent regulator. Yes, by the hands of the Socialist Party, again and always of the Socialist Party, we live today, in Portugal, a new time...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u84	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u85	... threatening the independence of institutions, in particular independent regulators and supervisors. They were the attacks on the Public Finance Council,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u86	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u87	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! That's a shame! It was the attacks on the Council of Public Finance, with socialist Members who have since threatened the extinction of refusals of appointees proposed by independent entities. They are the capitulations of Costa and Centeno, which according to what many — all! — regulators told the Assembly of the Republic, prevented them from carrying out inspection actions, monitoring actions that were planned. It was the dangerous interference of the government — Centeno and Costa — in the central bank's provision policy, which is essential for giving a secure and lasting guarantee to its stabilizing function. These are the requirements for prior authorization of the Minister of Finance for the most basic contracts and recruitment of specialists by supervisors. All of this weakening the resources and capacity of supervisors. What does this socialist government do? No more than weakening independent referees and police and making life easier for players, who are more powerful. Mr President, we also have CRESAP, created to be independent. First, they disqualified it, putting before them people who didn't even know they were supposed to act independently, said it here in Parliament, and then even those who didn't know they were supposed to be independent saw their assessments of merit torn, ignored by the government, as we saw, for example, with the appointment for Director-General of Public Administration. [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] It is sad to escape the responsibility of Vieira da Silva in Montepio, and what he does to protect his complicity with Tomás Correia, throwing the responsibility, which is his, for an independent regulator, that does not have it in law. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] It is the reform of the financial supervision announced as urgent by the Minister but that, when it comes, there is a mixture of personal adjustment of Centeno accounts, with an attempt to govern and weaken the independence of supervisors. You, in the Socialist Party, live very badly with the independence of the regulators. in the PSD we prefer to fight for it, for merit and for the public interest as decision criteria. [[PS protests.]] in past legislation we created the framework law of independent regulators.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u88	It gave a result!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u89	today, we made several proposals against these captivations, ministerial dependencies, temptations about provisions, conflicts of interest and governmentization. They have always been plunged on the left, always plunged on that left that they do not want and do not respect independence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u90	I should have Socrates in the direction!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u91	in this debate, we use to strengthen the call for independence. We thank the CDS for bringing this proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u92	You're welcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u93	... having also submitted the proposal for appointment and intervention by the President of the Republic. Although it has actually come from the PSD, they are very welcome to the profile of this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u94	Are you welcoming each other? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u95	It's an important proposal. It is true, limits and indisputable constitutional difficulties, but the discussion at the centre of speciality also serves to take care of problems, of these or others, such as to wrongly abandon the proposal made by the CDS, that condemnation by practice of crimes in the exercise of functions is a cause of termination of the mandate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I finish by saying: today, in Portugal, there is a socialist problem,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u96	... of disrespect for the independence of the institutions. They live badly with that independence. in the PSD, not only do we live well with it, as we want it, we value and we know how important it is for Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u97	Mr President, the Bureau does not record any entries for clarification. Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a positive agenda of the CDS on the appointment of members of independent administrative entities. This debate, in fact, as it was already supposed to happen, is understood only by the frenzy that the CDS reveals in that one's desire to be the leader of the right, as it was perceived by the PSD's responses to the CDS, at the beginning of this debate. It is not more than a race between the CDS and the PSD to see who can actually lead the right, but without success, despite such frenzy, because polls do not confirm that leadership. The Council of Ministers approved a proposal for a national financial supervision system at the Council of Ministers last week when they are aware that the Government has, in fact, been public, announced by the Minister of Finance. I am referring in particular to something that will cover the Banco de Portugal, the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds ( ASF ) and the Securities Market Commission, three of the entities which are precisely touched on in this draft law of the CDS and which, according to this proposal, are withdrawn because they are, in fact, different. In fact, past experience shows us that we must have a different approach to these entities. For this reason, the Government's proposal for a law reinforces the transparency of the supervisory authorities and their independence vis-à-vis these regulated sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u99	And that's why they name Carlos Pereira? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u100	In conclusion, the options contained in the Government's proposal, which follow European experience, were deeply reflected by the sovereign bodies and also by the supervisory authorities and ultimately respond to the identification of the problems we have encountered in our financial system and which the previous government has treated very badly because it has hidden them under the carpet and has left this government to solve. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In contrast, what does the CDS do? A bill that's missing everything and has everything that shouldn't have. When I say you have everything you shouldn't have is precisely because the CDS presents a bill that violates constitutional law. But the CDS knows it well and then chose to qualify this project as a constitutional challenge. In other words, a violation of the law is a challenge! It is a very special way of looking at the Constitution of the Republic. Precisely in Article 3. the draft law, the CDS proposes the allocation of the appointment power of these entities to the President of the Republic. However, it is important that we check the rules laid down in Article 133. that of the Constitution of the Republic and is also Article 110 ( 2 ). the Constitution itself, which determines that « The formation, composition, competence and functioning of sovereignty bodies are those defined in the Constitution» and not others, contrary to what is intended by the proponents of this bill. In fact, it is expressly excluded by the best constitutional doctrine the extension of presidential powers by law. I know you may not even care much about constitutionalist opinions, but surely the CDS will be concerned about Mr Nuno Magalhães' opinion. And in that regard, if he didn't hurt me, I'd like to quote him. This is reported in 2007 when Mr Nuno Magalhães, in a debate on a subject similar to this one, indeed a PSD initiative, as already mentioned here, on the addition of the powers of the President of the Republic, said: « Not only legally, because of the difficulty we have seen in accordance with Article 133. the Constitution, which provides for jurisdiction over other bodies, which seems to us to be taxing, as politically we also find it difficult to sustain this scrutiny". My question, Mr Nuno Magalhães, is to know whether this opinion is maintained or changed. This answer will certainly be important for us to understand the coherence between the subscription of this project and its thought in this House. I also wanted, to finish, Mr. Members — and this part also seems important — to me to mention that for the Socialist Party's parliamentary group there is no doubt about the unconstitutionality of the matter. We can discuss solutions, of course, that we will all have room to discuss, but we can discuss unconstitutional standards and that have to do with the competence of the President does not seem to me to be the way to solve a constitutional challenge. This is a non-project, the fact that the bidders themselves were aware of presenting it, as they are perfectly aware that he cannot have another destiny other than rejection. I shall finish by clearly addressing the honourable Members. Members of the CDS, reminding them that the time in this Parliament and in the government was passed when standards that violated the Constitution were passed. That was in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u101	It's still, with the municipal civil protection fee!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u102	That was with the previous government. Today it is different, precisely because the majority is different and the government is different. Today we have a government and a majority committed to respect for the Constitution of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u103	Mr President, the Bureau records Mrs Inês Domingos' registration to request clarification. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Fernando Anastácio, it is interesting to come here today to raise the issue of the constitutionality of this proposal when, four years ago, the current Prime Minister had a proposal, finally, a little similar to that, which he later abandoned, because we know of the difficulty that the Socialist Party and the Government have with the independence of regulatory entities. Mrs. Members, the independence of regulatory entities is not an end. It is, in fact, a way, widely tested in our market economies to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of economic activities. It is therefore necessary to ensure independence not only in the face of the regulated but also in the face of political power. Here, the Government and the Socialist Party fail, unfortunately. With this government, independence has been permanently under attack, through undue captives, of limitations to the autonomy of contracting and, even of political despotted attacks. CMVM said in Parliament in 2017 that it was difficult to hire employees who were indispensable. In 2018, Mr Deputy, he was even forced to ask for legal clarification on the seizures. The President of the Competition Authority said explicitly in Parliament that he left inspections due to lack of resources. ANAFRE ( National Association of Fregueses ) and the Health Regulatory Entity complain of lack of means. Still about captivating, they also stopped ANAC's campaign on drones. Already this year, ANAC accused the government of ignoring drone legislation. The « cases » are a constant with this government, cause disruption in the proper functioning of the institutions and are indeed a danger to economic security. That is why it is legitimate to ask you, Mr President, whether these attacks are the result of mere incompetence of the government and of this majority of governments. In fact, the government's wrong choices and no long-term vision made it succeed in having the biggest public investment break in 2016. Could this be just the reflection of this incompetence or also represent, what is more serious, the true vision of this government and this majority? Nothing, besides management, no activity, thought or vision other than this majority of left and extreme left! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the way in which regulators treat them is the reflection of a very well-defined mission that they don't even hide. They cannot let anything escape the control of the State, and this is demonstrated by the statements of politicians and even of rulers themselves. Just mention a case that happened here in the Hemicycle, in 2016, in which the Minister of Finance admitted a statisticizing view of society, when he said, and I quote: "It is not possible to attribute status of independence(...) when acting...", referring to the Banco de Portugal, "... it must be done with the Ministry of Finance". The Minister of Finance does not believe in the independence of the Banco de Portugal vis-à-vis the State. The broad consensus that exists in the main institutions dealing with good practices of regulation and economic governance in Portugal, with an intolerant ideology towards independent institutions by the Government, the PS and the extreme-left parties that support it, and this must end, under the penalty of compromising the security of citizens and the sustainability of economic growth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u105	To reply, Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u106	Mr President, Mrs Inês Domingos, your ideological conceptions prevent - in fact, from seeing the reality and your questions and the claims underlying these questions - from causing it to collide with the wall, which is our reality, day by day, the life of the Portuguese. The ideological conceptions referred to are those that have allowed the tax to be lowered, to increase the economy, to make the lives of Portuguese better. That is what Mrs Inês Domingos cannot see and, as she cannot see, she has to hold on to this speech. He has come to talk about captivating, but I remind him that this government has not so far needed to make any amending budgets, he has not had to do anything about what you did. [[PSD protests.]] You did not agree with a budget forecast and needed to make eight budgets. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why they become uncomfortable and find it difficult to understand when a government can predict, execute and improve the quality of life of Portuguese. This is why you cannot overcome it, and for this reason you do not understand what is happening around you and are still closed on the back of that thought which, I assure you, will not take you anywhere, in fact, perhaps lead to a great electoral defeat, of course! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u107	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Far from me wanting to get into all the debates that we are having and that nothing has to do with the project under consideration. I just wanted to remember that there was even a amending budget, which was the one that allowed to inject several hundred million euros into BANIF, and it only passed because the PSD abstained and allowed the PS to inject the money into BANIF to then donate it to Santander. For the sake of the truth, I just wanted to clarify this fact. The CDS presents today a project that aims to change the form of naming of regulators. Instead of the regulators being indicated by the Government, after a non-binding opinion of the Assembly of the Republic, they are indicated by the Government, in the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic, and indicated by the President of the Republic. And that is how the CDS believes that the problems of supervisors' independence are solved and that a free and competitive market economy is guaranteed. Forgetting a detail of form, which has already been mentioned here, because the proposal is unconstitutional, I wanted to raise two other questions about this project, one related to its content and one related to the moment. We know that the CDS needs and insists on this narrative and on this fiction of an independent model of competition and supervision to justify its choice of privatization of strategic sectors, and sectors that will never be competitive. Water regulator, energy regulator, civil aviation authority, Competition Authority, authority that oversees communication, so many supervisory bodies, so many independent entities, the truth is that people know that they pay the revenues to EDP because EDP controls the market in almost monopolies; they know that the liberalisation of communications did not lower the communications prices; they know that there is a settlement between the gas stations that has never been resolved; they know that the liberalisation of the air line to Madeira has provided a worse service to the citizens of the Autonomous Region of Madeira; they know that the privatization of the CTTs was what it was; and they know that, where the water was sold, the water became more expensive. Therefore, there is no model for the appointment of regulators that alters the effects of privatization of strategic sectors that have monopoly characteristics and therefore should never be delivered to private individuals. The second question is about the moment. We know that the CDS proposal is old and therefore we ask why this debate is now, in fact, completely stratospheric, because everything has been discussed less than the proposal itself. Why now? What is this debate really about? We believe that this debate is really about the Governor of the Banco de Portugal ; we believe that this debate is really about Carlos Costa, that everyone knows for a long time that has made serious failures and has no conditions to be Governor, but, in truth, no one wants to take it away, no one wants to make that decision. We may even admit that the law should be clearer under the conditions of exoneration of the Governor, but this project does not change that. The truth is, Carlos Costa does. It worked with the PSD and CDS, when it took all the responsibilities of intervention in the New Bank, and worked in such a way that they even renamed it, even after the conclusions of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u109	And it even works for the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u110	But Carlos Costa also suits the PS, because the PS knew about the losses of the New Bank, sold the New Bank with a guarantee of €3,9 billion and now comes to throw the blame on the Banco de Portugal. And even a committee of inquiry suggests — you know what! ... — invoking a hidden audit by the Governor, who, in fact, is already known to be hidden two years ago, that the Left Block has come to demand and that the Socialist Party has never done so. Now—you can imagine! - It's good to remember the Governor and the audit! Therefore, we understand very well what this debate is and what the centrality of this debate is today in Portuguese politics. The question here is that the intervention of the President of the Republic does not solve these problems and the intervention of the President of the Republic gives more guarantees of independence...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u111	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u112	... of the Assembly of the Republic, with its democratic power, and of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic. I don't think Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa gives more assurances of independence than we, ladies and gentlemen, to evaluate Carlos Costa's intervention in the BES case or the suitability questions of Ricardo Salgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u113	Give me more assurances, give me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u114	And I don't think Cavaco Silva should have an intervention in the choice of the governor who dealt with the BPN case, nor do I think Cavaco Silva should have an intervention in the choice of the governor who handled the BES case. And if we want to talk about the independence of Presidents of the Republic, we will talk about the independence of Presidents of the Republic. In 2011, and I quote a newspaper article « (...) there were 43 people who individually gave Cavaco Silva more than 20 000 euros and 29 people who even gave the maximum allowed by law: 25 560 euros. », for your presidential campaign. at the top of the donation table appear the names of bankers, administrators of the old Espírito Santo Group, who, in all, gave Cavaco Silva 253 000 €: Ricardo Salgado, Amílcar Morais Pires, José Maria Ricciardi, António Roquette Ricciardi, José Manuel Espírito Santo, all financed the campaign of Cavaco Silva in 2011. It can be seen that even José Guilherme, the builder, financed the Cavaco Silva campaign in 2011. We look back, for when funding to the parties included large entrepreneurs, and PSD accounts also show funding by large entrepreneurs to the PSD in rather large amounts. That is why I understand when Mr Leitão Amaro comes here to hate the independence of political power, to hate the big economic groups, to talk about the promiscuity between political and economic power. I understand why the PSD knows this is so complicated! But we do not measure ourselves by the PSD and refuse to measure political power by the PSD. It is that independence cannot be achieved by relinquishing the democratic power to intervene in the regulation of the economy, that independence can be achieved when the democratic power of economic interests is protected. That is where independence is, in the protection of the rules of democracy from the great economic powers. And there is no position to protect this republican ethics of protection from economic interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if it is to discuss Carlos Costa and if it is to discuss the Governor of Banco de Portugal will arrive at the Assembly of the Republic a bill on the new supervisory model. Let us do what needs to be done: let us take this bill, we will alter the privileges and powers of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, create ways to evaluate the work of the Governor of Banco de Portugal and, yes, create conditions for exempting it. The independence of Banco de Portugal cannot serve to have incompetent people in front of Banco de Portugal for five or seven years, unmovable. We need to create rules! As for the other supervisory and regulatory entities, the understanding of the Left Block is that if anyone should have a definitive word that person is not the President of the Republic, it is the Assembly of the Republic, with all its powers, respecting the democratic legitimacy given to him in the legislative elections. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u115	Mrs. Members, the Bureau shall not make any request for clarification to Mrs Mariana Mortágua. [[But there is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u116	The Bureau did not guess, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u117	Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a request for clarification to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u118	Then, after all, there is a request for clarification by Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão of the Social Democratic Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after this intervention, the PSD does not have many questions to ask the honourable Member not to be warned that the independence of the Banco de Portugal will only be achieved or assumed, effectively, with the presence of Dr. Louçã and the Left Block in the General Council, appointed by the Government that supports it. Only your presence will make this independence effective! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u120	After all, there was a Louçã!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u121	Now, I would like to ask you just one question: what is the proposal of the Left Block for the de-governmentization of the appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u122	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u123	Mr President, I think that no question has been raised, except on the proposal from the Left Block for the de-government of the Banco de Portugal. I must remember that this question is part of a mistake, because if there were any governmentalization, then it would have been possible to remove Carlos Costa, something that didn't happen. The PSD has other explanations to give to the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u124	Louza!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u125	... in particular why he renamed an incompetent person — Carlos Costa — in front of Banco de Portugal, after a commission of inquiry concluded that there were serious failures, and why he continues to protect the Governor of Banco de Portugal. And since you are so concerned about the effectiveness and efficiency of the institutions, what is the PSD proposal to prevent an incompetent person who questions the stability of the banking system when it is necessary to intervene in it, which is its role as a regulator, to stand in front of the Banco de Portugal? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u126	Is that a Louça? Is he competent or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u127	That's trailing politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u128	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I was just going to say that I had no registration for requests for clarification to Mrs Deputies, but after all I had ; the second part of my statement was that I had no further entries for interventions, or for whatever it was, and it remains, because the Bureau does not record any entries. [[Pause.]] Therefore, if there is no further registration, I will give the CDS the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u129	Mr President, if I may, I would like to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u130	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr João Oliveira. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Market regulation and supervision systems are a fraud and there is no CDS bill correcting this, much less a bad bill and with bad solutions, copied from a PSD bill, which was discussed 12 years ago and whose unconstitutionality has been recognized at the time and, even more, a bill that, instead of fighting, facilitates the promiscuity between regulators and large companies and that is only today under discussion, because the CDS has a great weight on its awareness of the appointment decisions of members of regulatory entities in which it participated, and wants to alleviate that weight. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's easier to choose this or that regulator and burn it...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u132	Ah, the PCP is Carlos Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u133	... in the public square — this even gives the government, which eventually has a biombo in order to hide — than to go to the bottom of the matter, which is to know what to serve the regulators. Regulatory entities are an American invention that has been imported into Europe by Mrs Thatcher to follow the process of privatization which has developed and which has meanwhile expanded to a number of other countries of the European Union, and serve only to create the illusion that there is someone who imposes rules on the wild functioning of capitalism. In fact, the crisis of capitalism that we have been going through for a very short time reveals what good it is for regulatory entities to serve. They are, in fact, a risk to peoples and States, because they create the illusion of rules and conditions, which, indeed, do not exist, to the wild functioning of capitalism. In Portugal, we see the examples of Banco de Portugal, in successive bank scandals. See the performance of ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity ) and the Competition Authority in respect of the cartelization of fuel prices. We see the action of other regulatory entities, in matters that are flagrant, and in which there should be, but there should be no State intervention. In the name of what? the balance of markets and the need for no suspicion of the functioning of the markets, which means that the interests of the large economic groups should not be confused with one. Therefore, the existence of regulatory entities serves to create this illusion and to disresponsibility of governments. The bill presented by the CDS is a bad project, with bad solutions, copied, as I have already said, from a 12-year PSD bill, which was soon recognized as unconstitutional, which, above all, does not articulate with the existing legal rules and that, moreover, is even less demanding than the law that exists today in relation to the matter of which it deals. This project is presented because the CDS has, in fact, a huge weight in consciousness, because it has renewed the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, because it has appointed the leaders of ANAC, ERISE and the Competition Authority, ANACOM, as well as in the framework already mentioned here. What the CDS wants is to get rid of, at all costs, the weight of these responsibilities that it has on its back, or that, for this reason, it has to say today exactly the opposite of what it said on March 3, 2007, when Mr Nuno Magalhães himself acknowledged the unconstitutionality of the project that they have been copying and that they present today. We already know the CDS doesn't like the Constitution very much. In fact, we must even ask ourselves what kind of constitution the CDS would be defending when it voted against the democratic Constitution in 1976. From there they have learned nothing and refuse to comply with the Constitution. Between 2011 and 2015, Mr Nuno Magalhães, while you were in the government with the PSD, were more than a dozen declarations of unconstitutionality of diplomas produced by you. And you want to know more? There's still another one here today! A further declaration of unconstitutionality has arrived today, that of the amendments which you have introduced to the retirement status to penalise pensioners. One more for your role of unconstitutionalities! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u134	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u135	This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and in conclusion, Mr President, to say the following: approving this draft law of the CDS would not only mean making a contribution to the extension of promiscuity between regulators and regulators, it would mean not only making a contribution so that the Government could continue to deresponsibility, pushing the regulatory entities what should be their competence, it would also mean another more serious thing, that there would once again be a law passed in the Assembly of the Republic against the Constitution, which should govern the action of the CDS in presenting its initiatives but with which the CDS has continued, since 1976, not to comply. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u136	Mr President, you have been distracted by the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u138	Don't thank me for distracting me! [[Laughing.]] No one has signed up to ask for clarification from Mr João Oliveira, so we move on to the next intervention. Mr Luís Testa, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The institution of regulation in Portugal has evolved over the years and the proof of this are also the amendments introduced in the Framework Law of Independent Administrative Entities, already in the course of this Legislation, in December 2017. at the time, one of the main purposes was to adapt the level of remuneration of the boards of each regulatory entity to the situation of the country, but above all to the structural situation of the national economy. This objective was achieved and for him they competed all parties — all, without exception — in a working group constituted for this purpose. Many would have guessed the success that we have come to achieve. Many found it impossible to reconcile positions. Many have determined an end that has not been verified. However, it seems to be an element of justice to clarify that the main success of this amendment, produced in December 2017, is not reflected in the remuneration of the administrators of the regulatory entities. It is, in our view, significant that progress has been made at the level of scrutiny introduced in the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors, which are indicated by the member of the Government responsible for the main economic activity area on which the act of the regulatory entity is concerned, and are designated by the Government after the hearing of the competent committee of the Assembly of the Republic, at the request of the Government, to which the opinion of CRESAP is attached. The Assembly of the Republic, through the competent committee, shall prepare and adopt a reasoned report on the hearing, which shall inform the Government. Such an opinion, although not binding in nature, has taken on such a preponderance that the government's political observation of the same has become imperative. This Government has recently approved for consideration by the Assembly of the Republic a bill establishing the National Financial Supervision System ( SNSF ), covering four entities : Banco de Portugal, ASF, CMVM and Competition Authority. The creation of the SNSF, composed of the supervisory authorities, presupposes the harmonisation of the statutory regimes of the entities making up it so that these entities can effectively constitute a system. Consequently, CMVM and ASF shall be removed from the scope of the regulatory entities'framework law and their own rules shall be established for all institutions of the SNSF, including their composition, duration of mandates, selection procedure and designation, inter alia, internal segregation of functions in order to prevent conflicts of interest. This bill reinforces the transparency of the supervisory authorities and their independence from the regulated sectors. The Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the other members of the Board of Directors shall be appointed by the Government, by resolution of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the member of the Government responsible for the field of finance, after a reasoned opinion of the competent parliamentary committee of the Assembly of the Republic, before hearing in it. The designation of the presidents and other members of the board of directors of the ASF and the CMVM shall apply-CL-like rules with due adaptations. In December 2017, he said here that a strong State ensures effective market regulation and this is achieved only by the effort of regulatory and supervisory entities. It is therefore important to have truly independent regulators. Only this independence ensures its effective action. But I said more! He said that this was, then, the commitment of the Socialist Party and be-CL - it would - in the next few days: to defend the State through effective regulation of the markets; to give power, powers and responsibilities to regulators to fulfil their role and, in fact, to allow them to function well, because thus, the economy also works well, which also needs strong regulation, as well as the State needs strong and well regulated markets. After more than two years, the commitment remains intact and the path continues to be made. If there is debate that deserves to be held in the Assembly of the Republic, this is subject to the framework of the regulatory system in Portugal. It is essential that the country deal with the overlap of functional competences of the various regulators, which gives debate on the possibility of returning to the sphere of public administration of areas of action which are clearly competent to it and which, above all, can and should be under regulatory scrutiny. This is the commitment of the Socialist Party: to continue to make the way, to continue to bet on strong and independent regulation and always, but always, in respect of the constitutional principles of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u140	Mr Luís Testa, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD, wrote to ask for clarifications. You have the floor, Mr. Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regulatory entities are independent entities that act in the defence of the public interest, protect the rights and interests of consumers, promoting the defence of competition in the private, public, cooperative and social sectors. It should be clarified that the vast majority of criticisms that are made today are related to problems and situations occurring with supervisory models that no longer exist, are related to a time when supervision has not seen or wanted to see. in this Parliament, very important steps have been taken, and it is good to remember them, which have led to a substantial improvement in the way of monitoring and controlling sectors which were deregulated. in this circumstance, I would like to recall the 2013 Framework Law of Independent Administrative Entities, which had a very significant impact on market regulation, namely by preventing the retraining of supervisors, submission of individuals to the CRESAP curriculum filter, parliamentary scrutiny prior to their appointment, strengthening their budgetary autonomy through the creation of revenue from the entities themselves, strengthened powers in the field of supervision and transparency and, no less important, the creation in 2011 of the Competition, Regulation and Supervision Tribunal. These actions aimed at de-government and depolitization of market regulation, reducing the area of regulatory capture and consequent immunity to electoral cycle changes. They would also increase financial self-sufficiency, through the principle of the regulated-payer, leaving the State with budgetary burdens. It is also important to say that not everything is perfect. What cannot and should not be done is, the pretext of some cases of relevant size and which have been the target of attention by the Portuguese, to come the government attacking the independence of regulators, weakening the institutions and spreading their responsibilities. The relatively recent attacks by the Prime Minister of the Socialist Party's parliamentary leader to the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, which have certainly sparked the intervention of the President of the Republic to protect the independence of the Banco de Portugal. See what happened to the appointments of the administrators of Banco de Portugal and the new members of the Council of Public Finance, when they were on the table names that were not about boys and girls of the Socialist Party. See what happened with the appointment of the Attorney General of the Republic. But let me tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not be surprised. This is the Government which, through the seizures, prevents regulatory entities from conducting very important investigations due to lack of human and material resources and, in some cases, the seizures reached even 40 % of the annual budget of those entities. This is clearly a situation that is detrimental to the interests of the State and Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is clearly a weakening pattern of regulators, carried out by this government, not only in their mission, but also in their independence. Otherwise there is an attempt at political appointments for regulatory entities, such as the recent indication of a Member, or also the proposals of various members of government offices. But this is also the same Government of the Socialist Party, in which, after almost all of its mandate, what we have, with regard to financial supervision, is no less than reliable conversation. See what happens in Montepio: they do not comply with the law, the law approved by them is not verified by the Socialist Party, the law does not serve them and, in this case, there is no problem, the law is changed — Mr. Prime Minister's announcement, in the last fortnight debate. Mr Socialist Party Member, after having heard his speech, in fact, it does not raise any question to me. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u142	We've been suspicious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u143	But let me tell you that we cannot continue to compact with this form of being of the Socialist Party. Therefore, these situations cannot continue to exist, under the penalty of the State failing in its role as a regulator and protector of consumer confidence and rights. on the part of the PSD, we will not give in, nor will we allow this government to continue to challenge the independence of the institutions and thereby weaken the proper functioning of the economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u144	Mr Luís Testa, I assume you would like to answer the question that has not been put to you. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u145	Mr President, at least Mr Carlos Silva gives me the opportunity to recall something that you have just done. It is that you bring here a written intervention, prepared,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u146	It seems that the honourable Member has recently made an improvisation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u147	... and in which it is disqualified for a simple reason: because you describe, in general, the recent history of regulation, passing « as a sold-wine dog » above the changes made in 2017. And they are very significant, because only from there is that the Assembly of the Republic began to exercise effective scrutiny. In fact, sufficient and sufficient examples have already been mentioned here, in which the Government which you supported in the previous legislation was perfectly marimbar for the opinions of the Assembly of the Republic. And only this government now has regard for the opinions of the Assembly of the Republic, and it has two ways. He has this because he has regard for the legislative body, because he is aware that his legitimacy is born in this body. But it also concerns the opinions of the Assembly of the Republic because the amendments were introduced in 2017. That is the fact that you are afraid that you will not know and forget and that you should never have done so because of the respect that you deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u148	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to leave only a few notes that allow me time. The first is to say that this draft law of the CDS, as has already been widely said, is not new, since it has already appeared in the X Legislation and XI Legislation. It's clearly unconstitutional. We cannot add, however small, competence to the President of the Republic without making a constitutional review. I think this is peaceful. In fact, according to my records, Mr Nuno Melo himself, in 2007, said that this measure could generate undesirable tensions between sovereign bodies. I believe you have changed your mind, and there is no problem with that, but it would be important to understand why. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] Next, this project has another problem: it confuses Banco de Portugal with independent administrative entities. The Banco de Portugal is governed by the Statutes of the European System of Central Banks, which in turn have the Court of Justice of the European Union as the last resort. Therefore, the independence of Banco de Portugal is processed in a completely different way from the regulatory entities. In fact, this gave rise to an interesting debate here because there were people who wanted to attack Mr. Governor and used this diploma to attack him; and there were people who spoke about regulatory entities because they were more concerned about regulatory entities. In fact, these are two completely different realities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u150	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u151	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying only this: it is unfortunate that the CDS did not allow the withdrawal of other bills, which would have allowed this debate to be enriched.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u152	For an intervention, you have the floor, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating something that is extremely relevant to Portuguese society and to the functioning of our economy, which is the positioning and behaviour of regulatory entities in the face of political power and economic power. This debate has allowed us to see different ways of looking at society and how society should be organized. For some, more to the left, we know that everything must be state,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u154	And to the right is all Carlos Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u155	... everything should be State and therefore does not enter into its logic the existence of independent entities. If they do not even accept a normal political system, because what they have as a model for a normal political system would be the model of a single party, in which opposition Members should only exist in prison, somewhere in Siberia, how will they accept independent societies and entities and regulatory entities? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] You understand, it is consistent with your thinking. But, dear colleagues, it is not what your logic is, it is the logic that the Socialist Party here has customised and, above all, throughout these years, its behaviour. [[PS protests.]] It is that the Socialist Party is with one foot inside and one foot outside. He knows that it is politically incorrect to say that it is against independent regulators, he knows that society does not accept it, that the economy in which we see ourselves has powerful independent regulators in Europe and America and therefore does not dare say that it is against. And he's doing something different, which is, by his behavior, manipulating, controlling, and, if possible, legislating them so that they will remain under his height, under the height of political power. Now, this is worse than your behavior, because you, at least, have the courage to say that you are against it. But there are others who say that they are in favor and then, day by day, they act in a way that shows that they are also against. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u156	And they do what? Very simply appointing persons directly from the ministerial offices for the management of these entities. And independent? Independents of the Secretary of State who appointed them! ... Independents of the Minister who appointed these personalities! ...and how? Handling the budget of these entities. Do you need money? So you have to go there by hand, to be able to hire, to be able to control, to be able to act! Where is the independence of these entities with this behavior? Oh, my God! But it's the Socialist Party's behavior. And, to the limit, through legislation, the supervisory model is amended, if necessary, to adjust accounts, to show that whoever sends it is the Minister of Finance, also in financial supervision. And the independence of Banco de Portugal can go to the other side, it doesn't matter, because what matters is to control independent entities. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate has been important. It's clear, it's very clear what separates us. There are those who, for years, for the practice they have had and for what they defend, defend truly independent regulatory entities,... [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] ...for example, inviting even the opposition leader to indicate personalities for administration, because we are not afraid that the personalities who come from there will undo the work we are developing. This is how we did, for example, with the President of CRESAP, when the government was mostly led by the PSD and the CDS. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u157	But now it is better to appoint someone under the protection of the Minister for Finance so that their independence is perfectly clear and clear to all! Open... You see the difference in postures? There are those who speak and there are those who do. We prefer to do, while others, unfortunately, only speak. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u158	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of this afternoon's schedule, there was a hope that he would allow us to debate, seriously, matters about regulation, its challenges, how to structure organically and how to proceed with appointments—optimism which, eventually, would be underlying ingenuity or age, which, on my part, is not yet beneficial. I therefore hoped that the debate could focus on things such as ensuring the independence of the regulators, without, however, removing the political decision-making space from the democratic decision-maker, because the regulator should not be a way of disresponsibility of the bodies that must decide on public policies, the regulator should not be responsible for things that are the responsibility of democratically elected bodies to decide, without confusion, with a good delimitation of the spheres of intervention of each one — we could have discussed this. We could have discussed the continued appreciation of Parliament, which has been done over the years in the process of intervention of designations. The debate could have been in depth or helped, which now begins, around the establishment of the National Financial Supervision System, which the Government recently approved in the Council of Ministers and that the Assembly of the Republic will have an opportunity to debate when the bill enters here. But none of this, we didn't have any of these elements. First of all, we saw a complaint between the PSD and the CDS about who had the original prizes of an unconstitutional proposal, which we dispensed, which we do not find useful and which basically recalls with nostalgia the times of the previous coalition, in which effectively they were champions in the sum and in the cluster of unconstitutionalities declared by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u160	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u161	But the debate continued. And it continued with historical diversions and diversions around the globe. It was necessary to go to Venezuela on certain points to argue about this debate. But it was also necessary to return, as Mr Leitão Amaro did in 1975 to find arguments on economic regulation in 2019. But nothing hit the intervention just ago, in which Mr Duarte Pacheco's mouth was able to do both, because he was able, at the same time, to go away and go to the Soviet Union in the past, to find arguments about this debate on regulation in 2019. in this sense, it is not with the escape to the debate, nor is it also with the fulanization in attacks that affect the Socialist Party, but truly fail directly the target about this way in an un elegant way, little friend of the truth and manipulative, which the debate goes forward. We have recently heard — as we have heard in a debate, I remember — about the possibility of appointment by the President of the Republic of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal or even other holders of independent authorities — to invoke itself as an argument for the terrible manipulation that the Government and the current majority make the recent appointment of the Attorney General of the Republic, which, however, was made by the President of the Republic! So apparently, what is the big argument and what is presented as a novelty in this debate does not serve if perhaps the choice is not a choice compatible with the attack you want to put on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is also curious to hear that the idea of the direct exit of supervisors is scandalous. It is also interesting that those who say it do not remember that this happened during the previous government, but with a substantial difference to those that were currently proposed on the table and that in some cases did not happen. The PSD and CDS government were well aware of this reality. And he lived so well with this reality that when the Assembly of the Republic seemed negative, it continued to live so well and to appoint it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What happened differently in the current legislature was precisely the fact that, although there were proposals that could have the same need for parliamentary validation, it was not at all concerned to anathematize someone who, being in a cabinet, is unable to always be appointed to a regulator. There are mechanisms that allow you to assess your competence and, to the limit, subject you to the scrutiny that, democratically, this House can do. And exactly what Parliament has done — indeed, against the views of this bench and against the views of the government — was in some cases understood that no appointment should take place. And what did the government do? He respected Parliament, respected the regulator's independence and did not make the appointment. It seems to me that this is the serious way of dealing with the debate and of changing the procedure of designations, which take place and which must continue to take place. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would say even more: regulators are the State. Regulators are a public entity whose main mission must be to defend the public interest. That is why it is also strange that, when the regulator finally shows muscle, there is discomfort on the right benches. When the regulator comes to say that there are certain sectors whose transfer to the private sector is destroying the quality of the public service, yes, we already have some allergy to the regulator's independence because, fundamentally, that is the difference: there is no tremendism or absolute character on the side of this parliamentary bench. We understand that regulators have their role, but they are also not an ex-machine god who replaces the public decision maker, who must be the only and main source of truth and public policy. What is needed is balance. Finally, this debate is also interesting because, systematically, it has always been seeking to pull the debate, or at least to focus on the current Governor of Banco de Portugal and on the process of retraining, or rather on the process of possible cessation of functions. Let us remember what has already been said in this debate. The reality is that they have failed all the arguments that were necessary for this debate, because it is not recognised that this matter is regulated not only at the national level, but by rules and their integration into the European system of central banks. It is a debate that takes place without any willingness to wait for the illusions that can be withdrawn from the various parliamentary work, within parliamentary committees of inquiry,... [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] ... that they can help us to understand what is lacking in supervision, what must be included and what must be done in the future, thinking that the appointment by the President of the Republic is a magic wand that would solve all the problems. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS, who bring us this proposal, will say the following: the Constitution is not, as it has been said, an excuse not to approve a measure. The Constitution is what guides us in the adoption of the measures, it is not a detail for us to refer to the specialty and, curiously, it is not something that concerns the CDS when there are two legislatures, it has presented these initiatives. But — we found ourselves! — it could have contributed so that the CDS did not present them in the past legislation, because in fact it forgot them when it had a majority in this Parliament, when it was part of a coalition that, if it wished, could have introduced these amendments. He did not do so because the seriousness with which this debate took place on that occasion and on that occasion is not the one which would be at the level of the employers in an integrated review of this system. Therefore, we sincerely hope that we can continue to discuss this issue, discussing supervision, but with the study and the seriousness it requires. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u162	Not registering entries for requests for clarification, Mr. João Almeida of the CDS has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two classic ways to intervene at the end of these debates. One is to do what Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves did: hold a little, here and there, of what each of the Members said and try to make a ping-pong parliamentary on each of the issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u164	That's what you're doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u165	... adding very little from the point of view of the substance and adding absolutely nothing from the point of view of the concrete debate of the question which is being considered here. There is another way of doing this debate — which I will modestly try to do — which is the following: take the initiative and examine it by the points on which it should be examined.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u166	Don't get into it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u167	The first of all points is about its relevance. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing independent entities and we are discussing regulators. We all believe that what exists in Portugal from an institutional point of view is sufficient to ensure the serious, independent and effective intervention of regulators and supervisors? Can we not agree with the point where each of us looks at this situation, but do we not think that all of us do not have any shortcomings in the functioning of independent entities and in the functioning of regulators in Portugal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u168	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u169	If we understand this, and we have all said it here at different times, then we have an obligation to take part in this debate seriously,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u171	... contributing to proposals or proposing alternatives to those presenting proposals. in our case, we presented them and, therefore, we had the legitimate expectation that those who did not present them, at least, would present them. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u173	Another key point in analysing the initiative is knowing its relevance now. There is indeed a need to do more for the effectiveness of regulators and their independence, but why now? It is now that you have a very good context to do so. The Socialist Party had two types of action, as a government, during this legislature. On the one hand, in matters in which he committed to change, he always postponed his realization. Even now, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves said: «But supervisory reform comes here». Mr President, it comes with three years' delay, and it is not in relation to a time limit that we have defined, it is in relation to the time limit that your Government has defined to present this supervisory reform. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But this is still the case where you admit to doing something, because there are other cases, of several regulators who have been constantly boycotted by the action of this government and the majority who support it, whether by captivating, were through unclear naming processes. If this legislation is marked by something it will be by the successive interventions of regulators who have come to tell this Parliament that they did not have sufficient conditions to carry out their duties. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't in the previous legislature, it was in this!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u175	It was in this legislature that several regulators came to say they couldn't do inspections because they didn't have enough personnel.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u176	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u177	Why didn't they have enough personnel? Because the government wouldn't let them hire them. [[CDS-PP applause.]] They said they could not ensure the regular functioning of the law of the Republic attributes to them. Why? Because they had captives that, for example, did not allow inspectors to make the necessary trips to be able to monitor the area in which they were responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u178	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u179	So that boycott is real. It existed in this legislature and existed within the framework of a Government of the Socialist Party and within the framework of a majority of the PS, the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens, in this Parliament. That is why this initiative is relevant, because it discusses the independence of regulators and supervisors in the context of a government and a majority who have limited the performance of these regulators and supervisors. Then, the question of the proposal in concrete, third and last criterion to analyze this relevance and the virtues that the initiative has. It will, or will not, be the best solution for the appointment of someone who must be independent: to allow all the sovereign bodies, within the powers they have, to intervene in this appointment, making a tripartite appointment, making everyone responsible, and making Parliament the hearing of those who may be appointed, because this is where the legitimate representatives of all Portuguese are. It is a transparent solution, it is a power balance solution and it is, of course, a solution that will allow citizens to see themselves more in the appointment of independent and supervisory bodies. Finally, there is also a fundamental question: Mr Pedro Delgado Alves gave here a view of society that differs from what we have in society. He said: « But the regulators and supervisors are the State and it is up to them to realize the public interest». The difference is this: for you, the public interest follows the State ; for us, the public interest comes before the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u181	It is the State that exists to serve the public interest, not the public interest that is an instrument of the State. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u182	Thus, at the end of the assessment, in general, of the Bill No 1144 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities. Therefore, as the CDS-PP has requested, we shall proceed to the vote, as we have reached the end of the debate. As long as the Services prepare the electronic record, Mr. Secretary of the Bureau will do his best to read a set of important information on the future, relating to legislative initiatives. Please, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 2035 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the triangulation of agri-food markets in the outermost regions of Portugal through air cargo transport, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2036 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government integrate the School EB 2, 3 Mário de Sá Carneiro, de Loures, into the list of schools to intervene and proceed to the immediate removal of all fibrosis plates containing asbestos, 2037 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government comply with the Court of Auditors'recommendations to avoid undue payment of social benefits down to 10. the Commission, and 2038 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt positive action measures in favour of workers with oncological disabilities and diseases, which falls to 10. the Commission. He also entered into the Bureau draft Law No 1164 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Change the form of the designation of the RTP Board of Directors and establishes the obligation to define a strategic programme of public television service, which falls to 12. the Commission. Finally, Parliamentary assessment No 125 / XIII / 4 was submitted to the Bureau. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, which establishes the remuneration regime applicable to the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u184	First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 202 presences to which 5 are added by the Members. Deputies Nuno Sá, from PS, Luís Vales, Sandra Pereira and Sara Madruga da Costa, from PSD, and Antonio Carlos Monteiro, from CDS-PP. We therefore have 207 meetings, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 1144 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities. [[Subject to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u185	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u186	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u187	Mr President, it's just to say that I was able to vote, but I didn't get enough time to sign up. I therefore ask you to report on my vote, as you have already done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-14.u188	I did that. Keep the record back. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we finish the work, I inform you that tomorrow's plenary meeting will start at 10 a.m. in the first point, we will have an up-to-date discussion required by the PSD on the theme « Implementation of the Community Funds ». of the second point is the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 1976 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement measures to prevent and combat domestic violence and 1998 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government increase measures to improve the capacity to respond to situations of domestic violence. The third point follows the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 2001 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on working conditions in contact centres ( callcenters ), 1948 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — by regulation of work in call center, 1949 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and regulation of the profession of contact centres operator, strengthening of rest, rest, hygiene, health and safety at work and 1985 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Establishment and regulation of the profession of call center operator. of the fourth point is the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 1088 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates and regulates the career of health assistant technician and 1122 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Approves the Charter for Public Health Participation and the terms of its disclosure, implementation and evaluation. The fifth point follows the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1995 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reject the amendment of the European Union decision-making process in the field of tax policy by unanimity for qualified majority and 2005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the reservation of national sovereignty in tax policy within the European Union's construction process. in the sixth point, we will have the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 824 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of the application of the sustainability factor to long-term involuntary unemployment pensions and provides for the revision of special schemes and measures in anticipation of the age of access to old age pensions, 825 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the sustainability factor and restores the legal age of reform to 65 years, 826 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of penalties to workers who have already acceded to early retirement, 827 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Appreciates long-term contributions, ensuring access to pension without penalties and regardless of age, to workers who complete 40 years of discounts, 911 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Eliminates the sustainability factor and replaces the legal age of reform at age 65, 916 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Remove the penalties applied to workers who have already entered the early retirement pension, 1136 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Resets the retirement age of 65 years and establishes the customized reduction of the retirement age for workers with 40 years of discounts or more( 11 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 187 / 2007 of 10 May ), 1137 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates an extraordinary complement to compensate pensioners with long careers contributing to the cuts resulting from the application of the sustainability factor between 2014 and 2019 and 1138 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Elimination of the sustainability factor of pensions required under special schemes for access to disability and old age pensions, the early retirement scheme, in particular in long-term involuntary unemployment and the replacement of the legal retirement age in 65 years. of the seventh point is the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 1026 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns the collection of samples of water and biofilms in situations of clustering or outbreak to environmental health technicians (first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ), 1068 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Allocation to environmental health technicians of public health units the collection of water samples in the context of environmental research in the identification of sources of contamination and dissemination of legionella ( makes the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease ), 1077 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease, and 1084 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August, in order to confer on environmental health technicians competences for the collection of samples of water and biofilms in the field of epidemiological research ( first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ). of the eighth point there are regiment votes. We have a very demanding agenda and certainly a very long one. Thank you all very much and good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 4 minutes.]]
