ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, Mrs Emília Santos will read the file. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, the Proposal for a Law No 198 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the requirements for access to the profession of the professional activity of seafarers, to define the criteria for equivalence with other professionals in the marine sector and to define the rules for the nationality of crew members on board ships or vessels subject to the regime of the professional activity of seafarers, which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u3	Let us then begin our work, with the debate, in general, of Bill No. 1204 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Approves the guidelines of the National Railway Plan and an investment programme for its implementation. To open the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Heitor de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative proposal which the Left Block brings today to this House aims to comply with the recommendation to the Government, adopted on 27 November 2015 for the « presentation to the Assembly of the Republic of a national railway plan ». After waiting for more than three years, after several hearings in this Parliament with various public and private entities, where the need for a national rail plan has been defended, this Parliamentary Group decided not to let the deliberations of the Assembly of the Republic die and present the proposal, now under discussion. It should also be noted that this proposal is inspired by the ideas and suggestions we collect, from north to south of the country, including municipalities, railway defence associations or even individual contributions. We started from the survey of the situation of the national rail network, which allowed us to build two diagrams and place side by side the current rail network in view of what existed in 1985 [ Picture 1 ]. Comparing the two maps, it is clear that the railway network lost connectivity and disappeared in various areas of the territory, especially in large part of the northern, central and southern interior. For about 30 years, the rail network has caught more than 30 %, in extension, and, above all, more than half of the services have disappeared. In contrast, the extension of the main road network — IP ( main routes) and CI ( complementary routes) — was multiplied nine times [ Picture 2 ]. These choices have had direct consequences on the modal share of passenger and freight transport in Portugal. The particular car is largely prevalent in passenger transport, in view of the other modes of inland transport — 85 % of the total passenger / km — while in goods the road mode is even more omnipresent: 90 % of the total goods transported. This is the result of the wrong strategic options of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, starting in the mid-1980s of the last century.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u6	Since then, the absolute priority in mobility policies has been to promote individual transport against collective transport and road transport against rail. In 1985, a National Road Plan was approved which, over three decades, consumed the large portion of public investment, having as a collateral effect the abolition or disqualification of the railway. The behavior of public investment in the last 18 years, according to data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), reflects this huge disparity between road and rail [ Picture 3 ]. From a total of around 26 billion euros of infrastructure investments in these 18 years, 76 %, about 20 billion, went to the highway and 24 %, about 6 billion, to the railway, with the railway investment falling peak from 2011 onwards. Ferrovia 2020, submitted by the Government and the Board of Directors of IP ( Infrastructures of Portugal ), in February 2016, resulted in a fully failed planning exercise, having not completed any execution schedule. In 2019 the accumulated delays in some cases exceed three years. Thus, the network that will result from the 2020 Railway will not change substantially in relation to what we know today. The characteristics of the infrastructure remain in a single way, in Iberian bottle, even in the new 100 km line between Évora and Caia. The remaining investment will be directed towards the electrification of several lines — Mining lines, Douro lines, Beira Baixa, West and Algarve lines, a total of 484 km ; to complete also the modernization of the North Line ; for the infrastructure of the North and South International Corridors ; and for the links of the main ports to some Iberian destinations for freight trains with 750 m extension. As the current Minister of Infrastructure and Housing acknowledged this week, here in Parliament, all the Railway 2020 is very late and part of it will have to be done in the 2030 NIP ( National Investment Programme 2030 ). It will therefore be almost impossible to fulfil the strategic objective of rebalancing modal transport quotas so that 30 % of travel, goods or passengers in 2030 are carried out by rail, unless new impetus is given to rail investment. It was time to make a fundamental strategic choice: to bet on the « most friendly transport of the planet — rail transport », which means deciding on a modernising proposal of the entire rail network and making the investments necessary for rail transport to effectively replace road transport and to accompany the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality in 2050 [ Picture 4 ]. [[Congratulations from BE.]] To this end, the future rail network should integrate, in the next decade, a subnet, corresponding to the lines forming the Atlantic Corridor of the Trans-European Transport Network ( TEN-T ), namely: the North International Corridor ( Porto-Aveiro-Viseu-Mangualde-Villar Formoso-Salamanca ), the South International Corridor ( Sines-Lisboa-Setúbal-Poceirão-Evora-Badajoz ) and the North-South Coast Corridor, connecting the two corridors, including a third railway crossing of the Tejo. The Atlantic Corridor, constituting one of nine multimodal priority European corridors, was designed to ensure total interoperability in rail traffic, requiring for this purpose common technical characteristics at the level of infrastructure as well as services offered. At infrastructure level, these characteristics are: dual road, service-adjusted built-in profile with high performance or high speed, international bike ( ICU ), 25 kV catenary, traffic control and control system and common signalling ( EMRTS) and freight trains with 750 m in length. Only this proposal for a 2040 rail plan guarantees these objectives, as it is designed to respond to international commitments relating to the modal distribution of road/railway and timing of its implementation in 2030. [[PSD protests.]] The concept of rail network that presides over this proposal is based on the following network hierarchy: a main network, consisting of two networks, operating in parallel with two bits (international and Iberian bitola), integrating the subnets. [[PSD protests.]] A subnet will be formed by the Atlantic Corridor of the Trans-European Transport Network ( RTET-T ) — these three lines in dual-way, UIC bitola and high performance profile for mixed traffic — and a national rail network, in Iberian bitola, consisting of links covering the main urban centres (north/south and coast / inland) and ports, airports, border links or logistics centres. There will also be a complementary network, trained for intercity service, formed by connections between the main network and urban centres of regional or interregional influence, and designed to rebalance the territorial coverage of the network in the country, both in the north and in the south. in this sense, it defends itself a new rail corridor of the interior, connecting all the interior of the country between Guarda and Faro. There will also be a secondary network, directed towards regional or interregional rail services, recovering railway connections in territories that have lost them or designed new links. Finally, a subset of urban, suburban and sub-regional networks, dedicated to the service of passengers in large urban and metropolitan areas, either with trains on the most demand axes, either with slight surface rail, on its own site, in medium-sized urban conurbations, complements the fundamental categories of the future national rail network. The objectives that the railway plan aims to achieve are the following: the whole network must be electrified and managed on the basis of automated electronic systems, connecting all regional or district capital; there should be links between the various logistics systems in rail mode — ports, airports, logistics platforms and borders; full accessibility should be guaranteed to citizens with disabilities or conditional mobility; in 2040, the rail modal quota should be 40 % for passengers or goods. We built an estimate of the total cost of investments in the 2040 railway plan, equivalent to EUR 8, 2 billion, to be distributed over 20 years of implementation [ Picture 5 and Image 6 ]. Considering the investment that existed in the time of the former REFER ( National Railway Network ), this does not represent a substantive change, because it is a value close to the average investment of the first decade of the 21st century. This value is in line with the railway investment provided for in the 2030 NIP, which will be subject to Community financing with 65 % shareholding. The proposal we bring here opens the way for the configuration of a national railway plan, the list of which, in annex, contains the projects that are part of it. To promote its implementation we plan to create an IP — Railway, with exclusive competences for the evaluation, design, implementation and monitoring of the plan, including guidelines for its financing model. The entities that must support the modernisation and re-qualification of the rolling stock by rail, centred on EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, S.A. ) and, in particular, at the Entrance facilities, as well as at CP ( Portugal Trains ), from the re-qualification of the Campolide, Barreiro and Guifões workshops. The challenge is to regain the constructive capacity and assembly of rolling stock in the country, placing on a reindustrialisation process in the rail transport chapter in order to create employment within the framework of a reindustrialisation process with high potential for the creation of value and the affirmation of national technology in the international rail transport market. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an essential proposal for the future of the country, a strategic objective and a change necessary to respond to the climate urgency. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u7	Mr Heitor de Sousa, three Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u8	I shall reply together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u9	All right, Mr. Deputies. I remember that the time available for requests for clarification is usually 2 minutes, but in this kind of debate it can go twice as far as possible. I appreciate your respect for this rule. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Heitor de Sousa, the Block on the Left today brings us a debate on the railway, which is an important debate, but, let us be clear, this debate clearly reveals the misconsciousness of the Block on the Left and its political opportunism. [[BE's laughs.]] They approved, cheerfully and convincingly, four State budgets. Budgets that have led public investment to the lowest levels in recent decades. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u11	They were the parliamentary support of the announcements by Pedro Marques and the children of Centeno. And now, on the eve of European elections, do you come with a plan for the railway? Oh, my God! Mr, if your budgets had maintained the 2015 level of public investment, we would have had more than EUR 2000 million of public investment than the one that was implemented these years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u13	It was the gentlemen who didn't want it. You are the real enemies of public investment. It is that public investment, Mr Deputies, is not measured by promises or announcements, but by the work carried out. And in this particular, the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens Ecological Party and the PS were the best allies that Pedro Marques needed, and he had. It's your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u14	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u16	Year after year, they voted and applauded the Budgets of Costa, Centeno and Marques. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u17	This debate is the launch of the electoral campaign of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u19	Today is one of the days when the Block is in mode of opposition; tomorrow it will be again the cruising of Costa. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u20	It's always been like this! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u21	Mr President, this is the time for the European campaign. It is still early for the campaign of legislative elections. Above all, they do not use Parliament as a campaign piece. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u22	To see, at this time, that it is the balance sheet of the legislature, to propose a railway plan is not serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u24	On the one hand, they say in the parliamentary committee that the 2030 National Investment Programme is not to approve in this legislature ; on the other hand, they want to condition the next government to your model for the railway and, above all, a model that will drink so much, but so much, to the legacy of José Socrates. Mr. Member, see, in the final provisions of your bill, that the Government must present here, in this Chamber, within six months, the plan implementing the national railway. Six months, Your Honor? Oh, my God! It can only be a joke! The country will choose a new government in five months! After all, I wonder, what does the Left Block want? Announce your railway plan? Do you realize that it wasn't Pedro Marques' crutch for four years or just and just wash your conscience before the electorate? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u25	In order to make your request for clarification by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has now given the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u26	Mr President, Mr Heitor de Sousa, the CFP wishes to appreciate the importance of this discussion on the national rail plan and on the strategic options for the future of the rail network in our country, but the fact is that if we are taking this discussion in these terms is not exactly for the best reasons. We are only discussing a bill of the Left Block on this matter because the government did not comply with what the Assembly of the Republic approved in this legislature, in 2015. So we are facing a discussion that, in fact, we shouldn't be doing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u27	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u28	... if the Government had achieved what even the Socialist Party voted in favour, when the proposal of the Green Party and the Left Block was voted on here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u29	It's just a bad conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u30	However, over the course of time we have been raising this problem, and the fact is that the fact that we are now having this debate — without having to question the legitimacy of the legislative process — also puts a bias in form in the procedure, within a process which, in good rigour, begins and ends in the Assembly of the Republic. We ask what is the role of the Higher Council of Public Works, what is the role of entities defined under the law, such as the CP itself, or how the current IP, unfortunately with that aberration of the merger that the previous government has made. We are therefore faced with a disadvantaged situation resulting from the inaction of the government itself. On the other hand, as regards the technical detail of this discussion, we do not fail to recall that, even last year, when the CFP presented a draft, and it was approved, by decision of the Assembly, for the purpose of the Government to draw up the national plan of rolling stock by rail, Mr Heitor de Sousa at that time criticized the CFP for presenting a proposal which, not going to the details of the trains that the country needs, in terms of the proposal submitted and approved, placed this responsibility on the Government, which, in fact, is where it should be. But at that time, Mr Deputies criticized us for raising the problem of trains and because they did not have to be the Members discussing the trains that are needed in the country. And we have admitted that, even more so than the proposal we made was not in those terms. Now, this bill, as you have already mentioned in your speech, calls on Members to discuss, by the 2040 horizon, the technical options, from the voltage of the catenary to the rail signaling system. Therefore, there is a degree of risk here in a technical debate which, at the moment, at the political level must be carried out, then to the strategic aspect. And, in the political debate and in the strategic aspect, there are two issues that we cannot fail to raise. One is about financing — Article 11. that of your bill—and I would like to ask you whether the prospect that this PS government has been defending, that the financing for the railway must essentially come from the revenues of the railway and the carbon background, has now also become the perspective of the Left Block. It is that we do not agree with that reading. Funding for public investment and rail development should be made through the contractualization of the service, also in relation to infrastructure, in a stable, predictable, transparent way and not through a carbon fund, as it is practically the only source of budgetary transfer. This is an issue that we cannot stop putting, and that is what is in Article 11. or, as we can see. On the other hand, the question of detailing lines and investments. If you know, as we know, that the Lusoponte concession contract ends in 2030, why do you establish that until 2040 the bridge on the Roof is only rail? It is now, even at the level of the railway system itself, that technicians and specialists consider that, in terms of the rationality of the investment, to abandon, throw off the planning work, the technical discussion that has been carried out for many years and that has established a third crossing of the railway timber as an appropriate solution, to abandon this discussion and this technical consensus is something that raises the greatest doubts. That is why, of course, Mr President, we cannot stop asking these questions. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Bruno Dias, despite having exceeded the four minutes. [[Laughing.]] For the last request for clarification to Mr. Heitor de Sousa, Mr. Hélder Amaral has now given the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u32	Mr President, Mr Heitor de Sousa, there is a huge advantage in today's debate: to make it clear to the country which is the solidity and usefulness of the Government of Management. And it is clear that we are at a time when it is each one and « I had nothing to do with what happened last summer». After four State budgets and 1253 days after the failure of the 2020 Railway, which did not do more than RIV ( integral renewal of roads ), because there is no single new work, after 18 000 complaints in public transport only in 2017, after 12 000 trains deleted in 2018, after 37 % of inactive circulating material, with the collapse of EMEF, this means that you are responsible for the greatest destruction of public transport services to which the country has ever witnessed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u34	And in view of this, what does the Left Block do? Well, I could say 'we have cheated', in fact, as Mr Pedro Nuno Santos now says, 'we have been too ambitious, we have not prepared the ground and we must recognise that the work is late'. No, the Left Block takes on the 2020 Railway and turns it into a story of illusion. But I must recognize some development by Mr Heitor de Sousa. It is because in 2010 he wrote an article saying « With TGV and cakes the fools are deceived » and in 2011 when the Socialist Party saw the light and had an assemblage of responsibility – he cancelled the third indent of the TGV, cancelled six or seven sub-concessions and revised some railway lines – and the CDS said « good, since the financial circumstances of the country are degraded, since it is necessary to review, we suggest the suspension of the TGV », who saved the Eng. José Socrates and the Government of the Socialist Party, so that there would be more TGV and more PPP? Nothing more, nothing less than the Left Block! Therefore, the Left Block has stopped being deceived by the « cakes » and the TGVs and has started to support the Socialist Party, creating a set of PPPs. It's just a review of the story. In 2019, Mr. Heitor de Sousa, with problems on the way and on the brakes, moved forward and proposed a national railway plan. Everything's great! [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] This says a lot about responsibility! A main network, a complementary network, secondary, in bi-bitula, in double line. Anyway! ...and then does not explain how it is paid, being of course it is curious that this model, this plan, is only possible in a government where the Left Block is not, where the Left Block does not participate. [[Rice from PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] The honourable Member says: 'Well, this is similar to the National Roadmap'. Truth! It was approved unanimously, it was a plan discussed, consensual and 30 years old. Do you know what originated the National Roadmap? It has caused the descalability of PPPs that you hate so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u35	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u36	It is EUR 1100 billion from the State budget for this year, only to pay PPP! Or does the honourable Member guarantee here that this national railway plan will not require collaboration, partnerships with the private ones, in PPP? Oh, my God! The Left Block, which makes an ideological war to the private, which makes an ideological war against PPPs in health, now proposes a plan, whose accounts are so certain or so wrong that it is enough to look at what is already in the 2020 Railway, in Aveiro-Salamanca, to realize that, as to the accounts that are in the plan, «the boot does not hit the loser»! But then there is an ideological subtlety of the Left Block. And what is that ideological subtlety? « We want everything big, beautiful trains, the best in Europe ». It takes a third crossing on the Roof. « Yes, but there we no longer want a third railway crossing, only rail». So how is it that, in the main investment in the largest metropolitan area of the country, where mobility is necessary, for example, to exist at Montijo airport, you say 'no, there we only want a railway bridge'? Oh, my God! You then explain why: why is it in the contract that a new railway bridge over the Tagus will have to be handed over to whom? Oh, my God! Ah! The Left Block here was honest: "We don't like private people, we don't like the Engil Mota and therefore we want a little bridge, little one, which is an attack... [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u37	Friends of Lusoponte!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u38	Mr President, making only one railway bridge, in its whole plan, is the same thing as trying to eat soup without spoon! You did not realize that, in fact, ideological embarrassment leads you to say wrong and to question your own plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u39	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u40	I will finish, Mr. President. The answers that you will have to give say a lot about the seriousness of this plan, and I will even spare you more citations than you were saying about how a plan of this size should be discussed and approved, not six months from the elections, not, as Mr Bruno Dias said, forgetting the Higher Council of Public Works. But, finally, the Left Block today is the Left Block, it's just be careful! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u41	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor, which has 6 minutes to do so. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u42	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the very relevant and very revealing questions asked by the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS, with regard to their past and their responsibility for rail transport, and of course I also thank the questions raised by Mr Bruno Dias,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u43	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u44	...that they deserve a separate answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u45	Is it a boyfriend? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u46	In fact, both Mr Emídio Guerreiro and Mr Hélder Amaral do not say a single word about the proposal on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u47	I mean, I mean! Speak about Article 13. Oh! Six months? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u48	They make many blooms around the proposal, but in reality, in relation to what is actually proposed—as opposed to, for example, the questions asked by Mr Bruno Dias, which were quite concrete in relation to the proposal on the table—either Mr Emídio Guerreiro or Mr Hélder Amaral do a sort of style exercise around the elephant in the middle of the room, without even referring to that same proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u49	Explain Article 13 there. Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u50	The gentlemen. Members have, in fact, a great deal of weight on their conscience. The only planning exercise that existed during your Government, PETI 3 + ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure ), had a number of chapters that did not have a single line or a single idea in relation to rail transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u51	Four years! Less than EUR 2000 million of investment! It's your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u52	All he was turning to rail freight transport, all he was turning to privatization of rail freight transport and all that was rail passenger transport was to be handed over to private. Therefore, there was a deliberate de-investment both in the rail network and in the rolling stock by the PSD/CDS government, which then led to the collapse of the circulating material that we have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u53	You in the government rejected the proposal to buy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u54	Mr. Emídio Guerreiro, buy a carriage, a train or a meter surface is something that is not done in a stand. There are no stands where trains will be bought, which, after giving a certain entry, will stay at the service a month later. It takes strategic planning, in time, for the rolling stock to effectively correspond to a set of investments on the network, so that when the network is ready there there are trains to put up, it will circulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u55	Be serious! In three years, they have always rejected the CP proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u56	So, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, to conclude, I do not think we can be accused of trying to "put the car in front of the woods" because this proposal is to be discussed as widely as possible, more than it has ever been. And if, in general, this House were to approve this proposal, it would necessarily have a way to go, in particular by consulting the Higher Council of Public Works, to consult all entities which intervene directly or indirectly in this matter. This path would be open as soon as this document of a strategic nature was eventually approved in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u57	Be serious! It was a project to be presented after October 6th!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u58	in the same way, Mr Hélder Amaral, what you say, with regard to the lack of consistency in the defence of rail transport, is completely wrong or, then, Mr Hélder Amaral had a 'white', in his memory, because you simply ignored that we, the Left Block, have argued, from the beginning of this legislation, that this Government of the Socialist Party should review PETI 3 +...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u59	They approved four State budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u60	... and include the transport of passengers, the modernisation of rolling stock and the rehabilitation of a series of railway lines and accessibilitys that have ceased to exist in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u61	Third crossing? Oh, my God! Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u62	Therefore, Mr Hélder Amaral, the friends of oil can be perfectly rested with their intervention, with the argument that we want everything to be great and that we are too friends of the railway, because what you say about agreements and policies against climate change, about favouring rail transport, is certainly not a mere chimera and you are effectively concerned about the private and energy model supported by the exploitation of oil resources, which is farming, every day, our planet. Finally, Mr Bruno Dias, your questions are quite relevant. I would just say that a railway plan, such as a national road plan, must also include some design of the technical characteristics of the rail network that we want to build. And in the rail network that we want to build, there is one component, which is the link to trans-European transport networks, at the level of collective rail transport, which, whether we like it or not, has technical characteristics different from those in Portugal and which cannot be ignored in a project to include the national plan in this trans-European transport network. The Atlantic Corridor has a set of technical characteristics which constitutes up to a condition of Community financing itself to be implemented. What we do in the proposal is integrate the construction of this Atlantic Corridor of the trans-European transport network into the first phase of the national railway plan and defend a continuity of this Atlantic Corridor between the three lines that constitute it, the North International Corridor, the South International Corridor and the Atlantic Corridor, by rail. in this context, it is up to us to see a rail crossing. And why a rail crossing? Because, Mr Bruno Dias, we cannot ignore that the PSD and the CDS have triggered the first great public-private partnership, through Lusoponte, to build the Vasco Bridge of the Range and that, in the concession contract of the Vasco Bridge of the Range, which ends in 2036,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u63	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u64	... all the exclusive road crossings is committed to Lusoponte. If we make a railway bridge we will be falling into a litigation process with Lusoponte, which will demand for you the need to build the roadboard. It is to prevent such litigation from taking place, to resume some of the good examples of river crossings that exist in the world,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u65	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u66	... many of them, exclusively railways, and also to give a sign of the importance of rail transport in the fight against climate change that we advocate that this crossing should be exclusively rail. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u67	Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government of the Socialist Party elected mobility as one of the central aspects of its governance. With this choice, it became clear that it was essential to make a final bet on the Portuguese railway.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u69	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u70	However, the diagnosis carried out did not give any margin for doubt: while the road has benefited with many investments, making it one of the most competitive in Europe and placing it on the world front line, the railway has been degraded and the sub-investment to which it has been subjected over the years has made Portugal one of the European countries with one of the least modern and suitable rail networks to the challenges of mobility. In practice, the Portuguese railway is only 16. a and 30. the most competitive of Europe and the world, respectively, requiring enormous financial efforts in the country to recover it. taking into account this worrying diagnosis, the Government of the Socialist Party intended to give priority to investment in the railway and made it through an ambitious programme called Railway 2020,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u71	Top!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u72	... comprising more than EUR 2000 million of investment, which is being implemented and whose continuity is already ensured in the National Investment Programme, in which for rail more than EUR 4000 million is planned, about 18 % of the overall total planned for the next decade. There has never been any ambition of this greatness for this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u73	But everything went wrong! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u74	Nevertheless, we are aware of all the difficulties and will speak of them in an unsurpassed way, so as to contribute to a frank, useful and understanding debate for all Portuguese. Therefore, it is important to stress that the ambition of the 2020 Railway did not integrate all the difficulties that have arisen, until many of them have proved unexpected. Some have emerged from the operation of public procurement, which requires transparency and equality of opportunity, as it cannot fail to be, but, as everyone knows, with a cost of time that often disrupts and destroys the scheduled timetables. But, as I said, there are unexpected causes, such as the tremendous lack of qualified human resources to respond to the project phase or delays in environmental authorisations. But the process of baldness and difficulties that the country is subjected to does not end here. After the design and competition phase, which also introduces more complications, the work phase returns the drama of recruitment difficulties on the part of companies or, no less important, of the technical difficulties that projects did not anticipate. It is obvious that all of this involves working hard enough to further fine-tune the planning and ensure the cancellation of the already identified barriers. That's what we're all focused on, that's what the government's focused on. But, Mr President, if it is true that much still needs to be done, if it is true that some of the approaches implemented do not fully correspond to the expectations defined for this Legislation, it is also evident that the requirements deposited in the railway for this Legislation have grown much faster and deeper than the potential capacity of the country to respond in time and in the right dimension to avoid blockades, delays and constraints. We found a country to lose passengers in public transport and we needed to reverse this trend. In fact, this investment is under way, also in rail, but we have fallen into the situation of success in this effort with another problem: the capacity of the national rail system, which, as we know, has been abandoned over many years to respond to demand growth, which occurs because of government incentives, such as the case of cheaper social passes, or the growing dynamism of tourism. We are therefore faced with a situation in which the rate of demand growth greatly exceeds the country's ability to modernise and extend the capacity of the national rail system. In practice, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the rigidity of the supply, in this matter, is quite superior to demand, making some delays already widely discussed. If it is true that these constraints delay and draw forward investments, there is still another issue that cannot be ignored: the state of the CP. This public enterprise is absolutely central throughout the process and has revealed fragility of capital and human resources in order to meet all challenges. That is how we found it and still persist with some problems. On the other hand, EMEF, an absolutely essential maintenance entity to deal with a rather old fleet, has in the past suffered a process of dismantling and governance that has compromised the expected response. Therefore, we are faced with recruitment difficulties in two essential aspects: in the operation and repair of circulating material. And, Mr President, despite the effort to recruit in these two areas, which is easily demonstrable, there is still a need that needs to be met quickly and that the Government should go beyond what it has recently mentioned in the House, the Minister of Infrastructure. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] But, indeed, and in spite of all the inconveniences, there is an enormous effort which has allowed us to move forward with some works that are under way and to conclude so many more that we can point forward during the debate. In addition, for the first time in 20 years the COP had a rolling stock plan that would allow it to restore the appropriate quality and service on the regional lines. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for all this and for the importance of rail and its modernization and expansion, we do not hesitate to mention that we are facing a relevant, current and relevant discussion for the country. But it is also important to clarify what we are discussing. The proposal of the Left Block, called « National Railway Plan », is much more an investment plan in the railway — is more one — than a long-term planning of the national railway. This finding, more or less obvious to those who read the initiative carefully, raises some problems that hinder, on the one hand, the ongoing investment — Railway 2020 — and, on the other hand, the planned investment plan for the railway within the framework of the National Investment Programme. in this context, we emphasize and congratulate the effort and initiative capacity of the Left Block, but we believe that everyone understands to be unwise to follow a path where investment projects mix, run and some of them, despite their structural impact, were not even the target of a wider debate and discussion throughout the country. [[Protests by BE Heitor de Sousa Member.]] In practice, Mr President, we consider it very important to build a national railway plan, but its design implies diagnoses, assumptions, including the demand for and size of urban nuclei to be linked, for example; alternative scenarios, mixed lines of goods and passengers or only goods, for example; identification of models of connection to Spain and Europe more competitively and environmentally supported, comparing with other means of transport; cost/benefit analyses; evaluation of trends, for example, the role of each transport and the effects of energy transition; and appropriate integration into the national mobility strategy. All these and other matters, which exceed the determination of effective investments, imply, or should involve, a broad and deep discussion throughout the country, involving civil society, whether the authorities, or business associations, or still the movements of citizens and consumers. In a very clear way, none of this happened to the initiative now presented, being this conclusion absolutely demonstrated by the project of the Left Block, which emerges without debate and, above all, when the cloth falls at the end of the legislature. Moreover, if the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has considered the extended discussion of the National Investment Programme absolutely essential in order to generate consensus, it will not change its opinion now, even if we are only before an investment plan that aims to be a national railway plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u75	Mr President, three Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u76	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u77	You have the floor, then, first of all, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u78	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, as you will know, the transport sector is one of the largest CO2 emitters in Portugal. In 2017, 72, 4 % of emissions originated in this large energy sector, in which one fourth came from transport. In fact, between 1990 and 2017, transport emissions increased by 68 % in a sector dominated by road traffic. We know that we have made progress in curbing the fight against climate change in this front. In fact, one of the main victories of the majority of this legislature and one of the main points on which the Socialist Party approached the Left Block was in recognition of the need to stop the ongoing privatisations in public transport planned by the previous Government. And it was this approach that allowed us also this year to implement social passes and rates throughout the country. These have been extremely important steps, but not enough to deal with the Paris Agreement and the necessary carbon neutrality, Mr. Portugal remains in Europe's tail, as regards rail density, and at the top of CO2 consumption, because it occupies the fifth place in the densest road network. The private car continues to transport 85 % of passengers and the trucks 90 % of the goods. The national and international territorial connection is clearly weak. So, Mr President, the question we put here in this debate is not only of greater justice in mobility and territorial cohesion, but also of measures to reduce emissions that have caused the climate chaos that we live in, measures that guarantee a populated country and that deal with climate change. And the concrete question we are asking here, in this debate, is whether the fight against climate chaos is the priority of the Socialist Party or not. It is that, so far, and as this schedule demonstrates, we continue in fact « waiting for the train to stop the bus». Mr President, we are indeed in the face of climate chaos, and we also say that there is no planet B. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u80	Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u81	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, today, the Socialist Party has a much more moderate narrative on public investment, particularly on investment in rail, than it had about three months ago. I think Mr. Carlos Pereira was present last Tuesday at the meeting of the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, where the current Minister of Infrastructure presented a genuine motion of censure to the former Minister of Infrastructure and now candidate of the Socialist Party for European elections, Dr. Pedro Marques. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u82	in this hearing, the current Minister said: « Clearly, I want to say to you what you know: we are late for the 2020 railway ». And he reinforced his idea, saying: « And in some works we are very late». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u83	It's a lot of abuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u84	Mr President, do you remember what former Minister Pedro Marques said in February?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u85	And the honourable Member too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u86	He said that « Ferrovia 2020 has an implementation rate of 40 % ». And the honourable Member here strongly defended this execution by 40 %. Who's right, sir? The current or former Minister? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u87	And with regard to the COP, Mr. Member, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos said: « CP must be honest and punctual ». Former Minister Pedro Marques once said: “The CP's regularity went between 98 % and 99 %”. [[PSD laughter.]] The current Minister of Infrastructure said: "We have a CP with a capital and investment insufficiency detrimental to its activity. We must guarantee its financing through the conclusion of a public service contract". Former Minister Pedro Marques said, in September 2018 : « Until the end of 2018, a public service contract will be concluded between the CP and the Government ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u88	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u89	What was done? Zero! What do you have to say about these differences of opinion? But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be deceived by this speech, now supposedly moderate by the current Minister. Minister Pedro Nuno Santos also said: "We are making an action plan to return to the COP." Now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u90	Five months from the election? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u91	After four years of government and five months of elections? Oh, my God! What has Minister Pedro Marques been doing? Did you make a PNI to run in 2030? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u92	The Block, there, does better, makes a railway plan!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u93	It's just, sirs. Members, the former Minister, Pedro Marques, when he came to Parliament, both in plenary and in committee, spoke as if he were the Marquis de Pombal da Ferrvia and the trains. [[PSD applause.]] But today we know it wasn't the train Pombal Marquis. It was, yes, the White Woman of Public Investment and Railway. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u95	In conclusion, Mr Carlos Pereira, also in this area, the government drags itself — it drags itself to the end of the legislature — and drags itself "without a king or a rock", without any strategy, present or future, for our railway. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u96	To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u97	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Pereira, over the years, railway links in the Alentejo and, in particular, in the district of Beja have suffered loss of services, highlighting the closure of the links between Beja and Algarve on the Alentejo Line and the end of the direct links between Beja and Lisbon and the degradation of the service provided. The CFP has put forward proposals in this House for solving the problems. However, the government has not followed us up and has even given answers in order to aggravate the problems that exist. The responsibility is certainly the successive governments that have transformed the Alentejo Line, an important railway link to the development not only of the Beja district but also of the country, in a branch of connection between White House and Beja, with successive limitations to the mobility of populations, aiming above all—and it is important that this be said — the definitive closure of the railway link in the Beja district. This was the purpose of successive governments, for which this government has also contributed. They now also want to transform the link of the Alentejo Line to the East Line, i.e. the connection of Évora to Elvas, into a genuine corridor, without the realization of the technical solution with three channels, which would allow the loading and unloading of goods and also the transport of passengers in New Sales, in Évora and also in the so-called « marble region ». Instead, they prefer the populations to watch the trains pass. The PCP has been alerted to the need for investment in rail connection to the district of Beja and Alentejo. Tell us, then, Mr Carlos Pereira, if he, like the Government, also defends the accelerated reduction of the deficit, to the detriment of public investment, necessary for regional development and the fight against depopulation. Tell us, then, honourable Member, whether or not you are right to the Alentejos to feel completely abandoned by this government and by the former Minister of Infrastructure, who completely turned his back on everything that is mobility in Lower Alentejo. Tell us if, in view of the low implementation of the 2020 Railway, this money can still be used to invest in modernising the link between Casa Branca, Beja and Funcheira. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u98	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u99	Mr President, I begin by thanking you for the questions that have been put to me. First of all, I will answer Mr Virgílio Macedo, saying the following : after the PSD has contributed to « lending a loan » of EUR 800 million per year in the country's budgetary capacity in the way the whole country has assisted, it seems to me to be a little over-exaggeration and even a very large development to speak in this House in options and in responsibilities on the part of the Government and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u100	It was your responsibility! They've captivated everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u101	Anyway, I would like to say the following: we all accompanied Mr. Minister of Infrastructure's hearing and it seems to me that all the parties present were satisfied with the political realism that was introduced into the discussion of such important issues as that of Railway 2020. This satisfaction was clear in the interventions of all, including those of the Social Democratic Party. And I would like to tell Mr. Virgílio Macedo that a statement that the 2020 Railway is carrying out 40 %, as demonstrated by former Minister Pedro Marques, is not incompatible with a statement that the 2020 Railway is late.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u102	They're different lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u103	Until then, Mr, if the 2020 railway ends in 2020, with a 40 % implementation, it seems to me easily to me that this declaration is not incompatible. [[PSD Member Protest Fernando Virgílio Macedo.]] Therefore, this political realism that has been introduced is absolutely essential for the process of supporting investment in the 2020 Railway to continue as it is and to be placed as a priority by the Government. On the question of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block, as I said in my speech that the Socialist Party's Government has put investment in the railway at the centre of its priorities. And he did it precisely because he also had as his main objective the fight against climate change, which seems to me to be an obvious finding. If we say — and we point out, Mr Heitor de Sousa — that a national railway plan is an important instrument for the country, the Socialist Party's Government also had to implement an urgent investment plan, because it was necessary to urgently combat the decarbonisation of the country and therefore climate change. Therefore, this is a matter that is perfectly assured and assumed by the Government of the Socialist Party. Mr. João Dias, there are obviously many investments that are still about to be implemented. In the case of Alentejo, investments are planned and are not yet under way. But it's planned. And the certainty that we can give is that they are planned for the 2020 railway and will continue in the National Investment Programme—and this is a truth that we cannot go beyond. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u104	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have long said that Portugal needs a new transport paradigm, both at the level of passengers and goods, both at the level of internal mobility and at the level of its connection with Spain and with the rest of Europe, a new paradigm, which focuses on the railway component, which responds to the mobility needs of populations and the transport of goods, in particular for the removal of local and regional production, which promotes territorial cohesion and harmonious development of the country and, finally, not least, giving a more efficient response to the global environmental challenges faced by Portugal and the planet. In addition to all this, and in view of the economic and financial situation in the country, affirming rail transport as a key strategic option for development is an option that will contribute, in a sustainable way, to reactivating the economy and employment, to improve the planning of the territory and to mitigate regional asymmetries. These were also the assumptions that led The Greens to present a legislative initiative in November 2015 in order to recommend to the Government the development of a national rail plan. Thus, and following this Greens initiative, which joined another of the Left Block, this House would adopt a resolution recommending to the Government the presentation of a strategic document for the railway system, which would serve as the basis for a future national railway plan. I recall that the resolution determined that the Government should present this strategic document, guiding the future national railway plan within one year. It happens that never happened. In fact, the Government has limited itself to taking on the Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure, and has adapted it, with some improvements, it is true, but it was neither that nor the strategic document to which the resolution referred. In other words, the government, instead of presenting the strategic document, opted to resume PETI from PSD/CDS governments and, with some alterations, transformed it into the guiding compass of its investment in this structuring area. And yet, if you have reconsidered, in particular a more focused look at the interior, it is largely due to the constant pressure and tireless contribution of the Greens. Pulling the trains and pulling the Government to the trains has been a constant in the intervention and action of the Greens in this legislature. The train to roll campaign, Portugal advancing, renewed last summer and in which The Greens traveled more than half of the current rail network, denouncing the many problems that exist, is an example. More: the recent parliamentary days that The Greens promoted in Beja, in addition to the intensive olive tree, had the railway as a topic, namely the railway links between Beja and Funcheira and between Beja and Évora ; the proposals at the headquarters of the State budget for investment in circulating material and for the strengthening of workers for EMEF and CP ; the campaign of the postals for the construction of the station branch connection to the city of Portalegre, now under pressure from the Greens, with open door in the PNI 2013 ( National Investment Programme ) ; or the recent walk through the reopening of the Corgo Line. These are some of the many actions of the Greens that have forced the Government to look more at the railway and its needs. However, after so many years of disinvestment, there was an urgent need for greater and faster strengthening, geared towards a planning strategy for the future. If this did not happen, it must be not to the lack of knowledge of the situation, because there is no need for passengers for trains, but rather to the obsession with the deficit and the need of the PS government to show itself as a good student, a well-behaved student in the European Union. As for the project that today the Left Block presents to us, despite making an excellent and faithful X-ray of the railway situation, it sins, in our view, for not properly valuing the interior of the country. In fact, the initiative under discussion completely ignores the Ramal de Portalegre, which aims to connect the current station to the industrial area and also to the city of Portalegre, a branch that is fundamental to that district, which continues to be a struggle of the Greens and has deserved strong adherence by the local populations, in addition to being absolutely structural to that region of our country. On the other hand, from the reading we make, this initiative welcomes the existence of a Tua Line, which does not link to the national rail network, part of a caller in the area of the dam, in Brunheda, and extends to Spain, without any connection to the Douro Line. A solution that, in our view, could serve more Spanish or Blue Douro than the people themselves. Even so, although it does not value the interior as desirable and necessary, the Greens will not vote against this legislative initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u106	There are no entries to ask for clarification, so we move on to the next intervention. Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings to the debate a draft national railway plan, a timely issue, because we believe it to be a priority for the future of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u108	But it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u109	Mrs. Members, about two months ago, by the hand of the PSD, a debate was held in this Parliament on the issue of rail pipe, which is in line with what we are discussing today. I remember that, then, the Left Block ignored the subject, even calling it "enigmatic"! Mr. Heitor de Sousa, the enigma was not in the debate proposed by the PSD. The enigma is exactly in your bill, since, after two months, they completely change their paradigm and now come to defend much of what the PSD defends for the railroad. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a national railway plan is crucial and critical for the development of the country, but your bill has significant shortcomings. Of course, because it proposes railway axes where there is no evidence of demand to justify such an investment, and it is very likely to constitute a few more white elephants without any economic sustainability. [[Protests by BE Heitor de Sousa Member.]] Your bill, with the exception of the European bottle, is largely no less than a transcription of the Government's National Investment Plan 2030. In short, it seems more like a agenda for the realization of works without their respective sustainability, a set of promises and announcements in electoral time. Therefore, the enigma is exactly in your strategic disorientation, but we are not surprised, as you are users and workers trying to deceive the Portuguese. one day, they demarcate themselves from the government, defending more public investment in rail, the next day they support the government and vote on the main strategic documents,... [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] ... that have withdrawn the possibility of investing in the railway, supporting captivating as never before seen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u111	one day, they support users, who see public transport being constantly abolished, the next day, they vote disciplinaryly in favour of the State budget, which establishes maximum cuts in public investment. [[PSD applause.]] But let's go to the point. What matters to the Portuguese is to understand the real reasons why we came to this state of chaos on the railway. Yes, chaos! Proof of this is the fact that public transport companies guarantee, in 2015 — see, in 2015! — better public service than today. The quality of services indicators are there and they are not wrong! The current government, with the support of the Left Block and the PCP, which found a sustainable public finance framework in 2016, is responsible for a disastrous act that led to the paralysis of railway mobility. It is therefore time for the Portuguese to call on the government and the parties to support it in its inaction. Otherwise, let us see the timeline of this government, supported by the Left Block and the CFP. We returned to 2016, when they accused, in chorus, the previous government of not leaving projects in the drawer. After all, the PETI 3 + program was there. Quickly, the government made small adjustments, seized him, as if he were his father, and named him Ferrovia 2020 pumping. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] From this programme, how many works are completed, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Zero! How many were started? Few! What is the execution rate? It's 9%! The government is obliged to explain this programme, and this is too bad to be true. Minister Pedro Marques has come to announce — I would say, to lie! — in the Parliament which had, in its work, 300 km of roads. We are in 2019, almost at the end of the program, and what we have are 10 km of electrified route on the Mining Line. [[Protests by the members of BE Heitor de Sousa and Jorge Costa.]] They don't have work, but advertising has a lot! In 2017, the previous administration of the CP presented to Minister Pedro Marques a plan for the acquisition and modernisation of trains. What did Minister Pedro Marques do about this 2017 plan? Oh, my God! Nothing. You put him in the drawer. In 2018, the maximum year of the captive and historical records of public de-investment, came to the top of the investment in two consecutive years, to be less than the public investment in 2015, the last year of the Government of Passos Coelho. [[Protests by the members of BE Heitor de Sousa and Jorge Costa.]] Notable, for a government that said austerity had ended and that it was going to bet on public investment! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u112	Minister Pedro Marques, now on the way to Europe, spent his days announcing phantom trains, repeating works announcements—always the same! — some even without prior study. It ended in a catastrophic summer, with trains falling to pieces, without maintenance, and being suppressed more than ever had happened. [[PSD applause.]] The Government has allowed the public transport service to be degraded, in some cases to the point of need. The CP received more than 24,000 complaints. See: on average, 66 complaints per day! This never happened in the years of the crisis. The life and reality of the rail users' daily life is now much worse, much worse and worse daily. But the militants of the Socialist Party, who travel on freight trains to the CP, these are always on time, with priority over trains! They circulate in front of the public service contract. This situation is a shame, and it is not the first time! The Government did not rent, the Government did not buy, the Government did not recover and still boycott and cancelled the ongoing procedures that the previous Government had left. And, with that, he delayed the delivery of the trains in three years. By political option, it kicked the acquisition of regional trains for the 2023 - 2027 legislature. And so far, what can users expect? Oh, my God! Nothing! This is a government without a strategy, which puts a strain on the development of the economy, torments the lives of Portuguese people who need public transport to get to the workplace. For all this, it is essential to look at the future and, in this way, the PSD will shortly come to propose an investment programme which will, as a matter of priority, modernise regional lines as a form of strengthening territorial cohesion, promoting sustainable social, economic and environmental development, and, moreover, the integration of the national rail network into the trans-European transport networks in an interoperable way, thus helping to avoid not only the railway Brexit but also that the Portuguese economy rests on Spain's logistics centres, ensuring that our ports are linked to Europe and preventing us from becoming a true railway island. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u113	Two Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u114	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u115	Mr Fernando Barbosa, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Silva, spoke often in Portuguese and still well, because the Portuguese know well the responsibility that the PSD government has in the state of abandonment in which the railway was left in Portugal, whether due to lack of investment in the railway,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u117	Tell me about your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u118	...for the lack of acquisition of material,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u119	They never reached the 2015 investment levels!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u120	... whether due to lack of human resources hiring,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u121	Tell me about your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u122	... even because of the difficulty in collective bargaining, either because of the non-wage increase for more than 10 years. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] In short, for the PSD, the railway in Portugal was even a PSD railway : private, simple and direct to profit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u123	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u124	Tell me about your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u125	Today, the Portuguese know that the railway must be a factor of territorial cohesion and the investment that is made today has to be for the next generations, because they will thank us. And one thing is certain: today, the cost of investment, however much it may seem to us, will certainly be less than the cost for what is not done today and that will have to be done in the future. It is therefore important to clarify this House and, above all, the Portuguese and therefore my question is very simple. The PSD recently defended all Portuguese in this Chamber, criticizing in particular the PART ( Public Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme ). It is important to know whether you were just making opposition when you criticized the PART because it is not for the whole country and if you are now willing to follow the Block's proposals in the need for a serious investment in the railway,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u126	He's confused!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u127	... with a view to providing the country with rail connections that allow for increased transport capacity of goods and improve the mobility of all Portuguese, including the train, throughout the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u128	That's conversation! It was very confusing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u129	The second request for clarification lies with Mr Pedro Coimbra of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal has invested significantly in the road over the past few decades. Although still lacking, it is important to correct, in fact, it is recognized that Portugal has a good road network today. On the other hand, given the political options of various governments, that no party with government responsibilities in the past is free, the railway has suffered many decades of abandonment and clear disinvestment. The current government, led by António Costa, relaunched the railway as strategic for the mobility of citizens and goods in Portugal,... [[PSD protests.]] ... launching an ambitious investment programme for the coming years, called « Railway 2020 », already in place. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some examples of this investment effort: one, the work of the South International Corridor, the largest rail investment of the last 100 years in Portugal,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... with work already awarded, a very important investment for the country that will boost the connection of the Port of Sines to Europe and vice versa, strengthening the link of Portugal to Europe and the world; two, the work of modernization of the Line of Douro, which has also been in progress since November, which has as great priority to promote greater safety in the railway infrastructure, especially in tunnels, bridges and thaludes; three, the work of the North International Corridor, the link between the Lines of Beira Baixa and Beira Alta, with the work to be carried out since March 2018 and with the completion planned for the current year 2019, aiming to modernize the line, increase security and increase its capacity, allowing the circulation of electric trains throughout the Line of Beira Baixa ; four, the works on the North Line, such as the intervention between Alfarelos and Pampilhosa, already completed and opened, or, still, the works for the modernisation of the Line between Espinho and Gaia, Gaia. [[PSD protests.]] These are important investments in one of the main rail corridors in the country, which is a priority for the Government, which aims to improve the conditions of movement of people and goods, reducing the travel time between Lisbon and Porto. Continuation of PSD protests. In addition to the investment in the requalification and expansion of the national rail network, there is also an effort...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u131	Sir, excuse me. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not mind creating conditions for you to finish your speech? [[Pause.]] Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, in addition to the investment in the retraining and expansion of the national rail network, there is also a significant effort in the investment in rolling stock with the purchase of 22 new trains for the regional lines of the CP, worth more than 168 million euros. It was adopted in a Council of Ministers last September.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u133	When do you get here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u134	With this decision, the COP had, for the first time in two decades, a plan to acquire rolling stock that would allow it to restore the level of appropriate service requalification on the regional lines. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whether or not they want to listen to it or not, the railway plan, the 2020 railway is a reality with this government and it is due to the commitment of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Carlos Silva, you said recently that there is no investment in the railway. of the works I have mentioned, some in realisation, others that have already been inaugurated, what I ask you is whether you know them, whether you have visited any and whether you think they are important to the country and to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u135	If the gentlemen. PSD Members wanted to create conditions for Mr. Carlos Silva to be able to respond, it was no worse idea. Mr. Carlos Silva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u136	Mr. President, thank you very much. I was hoping that the Members of the Socialist Party and the Left Block would come to talk to me and ask questions about the last four years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u137	However, the Member of the Left Block has asked me questions from 10 years ago to this part and Mr Pedro Coimbra has asked questions from 8 years ago to this part. The fact is that in the last four years, what is essentially and generally characteristic of the railway in Portugal is: delays, suppressions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u139	... trains falling to pieces, constant suppressions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u140	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u141	... constant delays,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u142	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u143	... lack of trains, calls of warning from the President of the CP to say « Get me workers, otherwise I have to reduce the supply! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u144	This is the reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u145	This is your reality. [[BE's protests.]] Mr. Bloc de Left, your reality and your responsibility is another, that I spoke about recently. It is the lack of public investment, in which about 1500 million have been cut off in the various State budgets, which you have consistently approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u146	Four years! Four Budgets! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u147	So, about that circumstance, we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u148	Four Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u149	What about the previous four years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u150	Mr. Pedro Coimbra, regarding the time of the CP trains, I have to say the following: they are increasingly late. at this moment, they are at the rocket level of the 70s! [[PSD laughter.]] It's not from now on! It's from the '70s rocket! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Even to finish, as to saying that Sines is connected to Europe, it is not! That's the problem! The connection to Europe from Sines is made through a line with several, highly complicated pens, one way, one way, one way, in Iberian bottle. That's not about calling Europe! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u151	You know everything is when you're in opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u152	We're going back to the speeches. It is now the turn of the Socialist Party. Mr. Hugo Costa, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rail debate is clearly structural for the country. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group assumes this importance and the need for a clear bet on this transport vector. Railway is therefore a priority of this Government which can be enshrined in the 2020 railway strategy and in the work of the National Investment Plan. We are talking about the bet on decarbonisation and encouragement on the use of public transport and we must be effective in this bet. We all recognize that a quality and effective CP is needed, but without demagogy, and we are aware that years and years of investment are difficult to recover. This government, for example, with the acquisition of 22 new regional trains, is making the largest investment in the acquisition of rolling stock over the last 20 years. Portugal needs investment in the network and rolling stock, breaking years and years of delay, in particular by investing in the de-investment strategy of the previous government, with clear responsibilities of the PSD and the CDS, which put in place, for example, a plan to dismantle EMEF, which is crucial for the country's railway situation. The dismantling of EMEF was the strategy of PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u154	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u155	And what is yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u156	We also do not forget that it was against the right that it was possible to create the plan to support tariff reduction, which obviously raises questions on the network due to the natural increase in demand. This positive outcome obliges new answers. Public finances and, after all, all accounts require budgetary restraints. The needs are unlimited; however, economic science shows that there is always a budgetary restriction. This is the strategy in which we must have responsibility and we cannot afford everything, because we will certainly not be able to do anything. We know that budgetary responsibility issues have always divided the Left Block PS, but it would not fail to be normal to see the PSD and CDS behind the easy proposal. Returning to reality, the bet on requalification, for example, of the North Line is a priority present in the 2020 Railway and the National Investment Plan. This improvement, with a budget of about EUR 1, EUR 5 billion, is crucial for the country. For example, the link between Santarém and the Shipyard is more than 200 million euros. This is the way: to place rail as a priority, but following a strategy of responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u157	Since no one has signed up to ask for clarification from Mr Hugo Costa, we are going to proceed to the next intervention. Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has always agreed, with the need for a clear bet on the railway, and this is visible and mirrored in the votes made over time. Yes, there is a systemic view of the national transport network, where we include maritime motorways, where we include logistics areas, where we include air transport, where we include maritime transport, the connection of ports to railways, logistics areas, to maritime highways. That is, it is a coherent view, where interoperability and intermodality are planned — we have always said so. That is why we have always made consistent votes, either in relation to the National Road Plan, or in the need to link ports to rail, or in a government that renegotiated the Trans-European Transport Network and links to the North, Central and South corridors. That has our brand. What we say is that a plan of this size, which requires a long-term financial effort, must necessarily be discussed with serenity, consensus and also with responsibility. That is why, despite having agreed on all these projects, we were also those who proposed the end of the TGV, not because we disagreed with the TGV, but because we were facing financial circumstances in the country that required it, a country with a debt of EUR 150 billion. I would remind you that today we are, according to Banco de Portugal, EUR 247 billion. In fact, that was exactly what the Socialist Party at the time proposed in the government. I remind you, or better, I advise you to review Mr. Minister of Teixeira Finance of the Saints's office when he cancelled the third crossing of the Tagus, when he cancelled the sub-concession of Vouga, of the Star See, of the International Tile, of the Ribatejo and of the High Alentejo. What was the government's argument at the time? Oh, my God! It was the degradation of the country's financial circumstances. Therefore, a responsible government, a responsible party or a coherent party, such as the CDS, agrees with the need for investments, agrees with the need for renewal, but always taking into account the financial circumstances, not exhausting all Community funds or all the financial capacity important to the national economy in projects that are no more than megaloms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u160	That is why we made a bet either in the working group on value-added infrastructures, with which we had broad consensus in this House, either in PETI 3 + ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure ), widely negotiated and with the agreement of the Socialist Party, the largest party of the opposition, at this time. This is exactly the basis: to take in PETI 3 +, where a set of works, such as international corridors, the North Line, territorial cohesion, with a set of renewal of roads and extension of other railway lines, the connection to ports, which are largely in Railway 2020. What's the matter? Oh, my God! The problem is that the country faced a germination, with a Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the Left Block, the PCP and the Green Ecological Party, which was unable to execute almost anything of that plan that was important to the country. But they will not be able to do so in the future, because when we look at the National Reform Programme, what we saw is a cut of EUR 470 million in relation to what was planned in the State Budget of 2019 for public investment. In other words, what you bring to the country, what the Block brings today to Parliament and to the country is a set of ideas you do not want to achieve. I repeat: this plan, with some positive aspects, those already planned for the 2020 railway, with which we agree, is not possible to implement in the current financial circumstances nor with the current Community framework. There is only one reason for the Block to bring this matter here today: it is to say that it was mistaken in support of the Socialist Party, that it was distracted during these four years in which it approved Budgets and was unable to force the execution of the Mining Line, whose minimum need was electrification and did only 10 km, or the West Line, whose execution had been planned in all plans for 20 years. I ask the Member of the Left Block and the Socialist Party what is the implementation of the West Line today. It is necessary to wait for an intervention by the Socialist Party, by Pedro Coimbra, in fact, already a little late, because still in the time of former Minister Pedro Marques the subway of the Mondego, or now the World Mobility System, was proposed by the Socialist Party, not executed by the Socialist Party, once again proposed by the Socialist Party and, Mr Pedro Coimbra, what is the execution of the Mondego metro, now the World Mobility System, today? Which one is it, sir? Oh, my God! It's "ball"! So we need to have a lot of courage, we need to have an electoralist spirit, so obvious that today it passes from the Left Block to the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party, to come and say, "Well, we haven't done anything, we have the EMEF completely paralyzed." At the beginning of the legislature, the Government asked Parliament for time for the new action plan for EMEF and presented five scenarios. Four budgets later, four years later, what does the government present for EMEF? He says EMEF is completely paralyzed. I end with the example of CP, which in addition to being the champion of captivating, in fact, as the entire business sector of the State in the field of transport, being the Ministry of Infrastructures the champion of captivating, today presents fewer trains, less personnel and less response capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u161	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u162	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we have actually left work done. It was called Railway XXI and had the entire plan of reformulation of the CP and all the need for circulating material, in regional, international, long-term and suburban services. What did the government do in the plan? He did not do anything, because for this it was necessary to govern, it was necessary to act, it was necessary to make choices, it was necessary to decide investments and, therefore, you have never been able to! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u163	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP wishes to reaffirm what it transmitted to this House in 2015, when the national railway plan was discussed in the framework of the draft resolutions presented first by the Greens Ecological Party and then by the Left Block. By then, the PCP stressed the need for rail to be thought as a whole, truly on the net. If it is true that the link between means of transport is crucial and indispensable, it is no less true that the railway must be considered as such, as the framed rail system, as it should be, in a national transport plan. over the decades, it was agreed that the successive diplomas which, by state determination, defined the nomenclature, hierarchy, systematization of the existing road network or to be built were called "national road plans". However, one of the fundamental differences in rail is precisely in the strategically integrated design, which should at the same time include rail infrastructure and rolling stock, for reasons not only of rationality of planning, but also of defence of public service and even as an important factor in operationality and even in promoting the safety of rail transport. It was a real crime that was committed in this country, not only the major dismantling of the national rail network, but also, of course, the segmentation of the CP, the separation of the REFER and then the merger with the Estradas de Portugal. They separated the round from the lane and then mixed the lane with the tar!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u165	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u166	What needs to be done is to establish an objective and work towards the reunification of the railway. We do not give up defending the reintegration of the entire EMEF into the CP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u168	We have been alone in this legislature to defend this measure, but life is there demonstrating that it is an unmistakable necessity and with strategic importance. We will not fail to emphasise that the rail transport operation must be developed in an integrated way with infrastructure management. However, we reaffirm the requirement — I would say, the emergency — to carry out, as soon as possible, the approval by the Government and the implementation on the ground of the national plan for railway rolling stock, as approved in this House last year by the proposal of the CFP. On the third crossing of the Tejo, a structural project for the territorial development of the region and the country, which must be a railway, we already refer to the contract that is in force and to this disastrous PPP (public-private partnership) with Lusoponte, which has caused so much damage to the populations and to the public interest. The BE has already acknowledged that this contract ends before the end of the implementation of this proposed plan, which is already relevant to the issue, but the fundamental problem, which is a substantial political problem, is to subject the country, its development, its strategic options, the sovereignty of those who decide their future to manage PPP and the fear of litigation with economic groups. In fact, we recall the discussion that has been held on this subject in the Committee of Inquiry on Excessive Income. More than that, this is an option to subject and define strategic planning options not only on the basis of the European Union's budgetary determinations and taxes, but also on the basis of political concepts that we do not follow, translated from the model of financing based on railway own revenues, tax revenue and the Carbon Fund. What is required is that the responsibilities of the State are effectively assumed on the basis of contractualization and regular, programmed and predictable transfers in the State budget. Strategic planning also reflects policy options and development models. in this sense, what the PCP advocates, defends and reaffirms in this debate is the need to defend and value the public service, an integrated rail network, with the transport service itself at the service of the populations, the productive sectors, the economy, the country and national development. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u169	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. Pedro Murcela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : We cannot hold a debate on the national railway without mentioning the work that represents the largest rail investment made in Portugal in the last 100 years, which is the South International Corridor, Sines-Caia. This government has betted on the expansion of the national rail network rather than what has been done in the past. The South International Corridor, Sines-Caia, is a railway route that integrates all the districts of the Alentejo : Évora, Beja and Portalegre. They are projects like this that have contributed to the development of the interior of the country. It will be an electrified and prepared for the circulation of 750 m long freight trains. This investment is absolutely essential to improve the country's external competitiveness and internal cohesion. On a national level, it is important, because the port of Sines represents more than 50% of the load enlivened in national ports. At European level, we all recognize that the new railway line will promote cross-border connectivity by enhancing the link between the Port of Sines and Europe, thus promoting Portugal's integration into the Atlantic Corridor. As you know, on February 11, 2019, it was awarded the construction of the new piece Évora Norte-Freixo. This is the first of three sections of the Évora Norte-Elvas link, with 20, 5 km, representing a public investment of 46, 6 million euros. The Sines-Caia International Corridor will bring enormous benefits to the transport of goods, as it represents a reduction of the extension by 140 km and the duration of the transport by three and a half hours, thereby reducing costs and, on the other hand, increasing the capacity for the movement of trains, from current 17 to 30 days. In addition, there is also an opportunity to boost the economic dynamism in this region. I recall that this is a region with important economic activity in the marble industry, and it is also possible to induce other economic activities in the region. We hope that, with the construction of the South International Corridor, Sines-Caia, companies will look more closely at the Alentejo and can see in this infrastructure an opportunity to have better conditions to export to Europe or to the whole world, from the Port of Sines. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u171	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In accordance with European rules, Member States should draw up national plans to phase out all accessibility barriers identified in the rail system. The reality is quite different. In the Lines of the Algarve, the West, the Douro, the Minor, are rare accessible trains. In the Beja branch, they are not rare, they are completely nonexistent. Intercity services are all inaccessible. of the 426 existing passenger stations, only about 130 allow boarding and landing of passengers in wheelchairs. But, in these 130 stations, only in 60 there is a support service for these customers on boarding and landing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 22 years after this House unanimously approved legislation requiring the adaptation of railway stations, this is the situation. It is 22 years of incuria and exclusion of persons with conditioned mobility. In order to have access to this lousy service, disabled people are still required to seek support 24 hours in advance. This requirement of the CP is clearly a discriminatory practice against persons with disabilities, according to Law No. 46 / 2006, an illegality which unfortunately remains unpunished. Accessibility in general, either in the built environment or in transport or in communication, is fundamental to eliminating discriminatory practices that people with disabilities are subject to on a daily basis and an essential condition to enable their social inclusion. It is urgent to end this discrimination. People with disabilities cannot continue to be second citizens and citizens forever, and that is also why we present our national railway plan. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u173	Mr Jorge Falcato, the Bureau records the registration of Mrs Helga Correia, PSD, to request clarifications. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jorge Falcato, four years later, everything is the same! It could be the name of a good film, but it's not. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u175	This is the reality that we have and that is what the Portuguese watch in the Real Country. Today we can say that the debate is presented a new Left Block. Where has the Left Block been? I'm talking about the one who approved four budgets,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u177	...the same which opposes Fridays until noon and which, after noon, returns to the side of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u178	Was he wrong? Will you be sorry? Mr President, do you think it is normal for the Left Block to watch the Portuguese rail sector safely and only now wake up to oppose the supporting Government? Do you support it? Doubt it! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u179	Support, support!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block now clearly presents itself today in an attempt to take off the train in progress,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u182	... with fear that the same will drop. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's too late to take off! Over the past few years, the left, and the Block of Left in concrete, closed its eyes and struck palms, along with the government, to the captivating of Superminist Mário Centeno,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u183	They're all Centeno!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u184	... the engine of the automobile that fell on the Mining Line,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u185	... to successive delays and suppressions. It does not fail to be curious that the only trains that were not suppressed or had no delays were those of the Socialist Party, as happened last Saturday in Aveiro. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Deputy, is this normal? In the face of all this, the Left applauded the announcements of millions made by the palate of investment and the low rate of execution, his former Minister Pedro Marques, the worst minister of the government! Mr President, do you think it would be acceptable for us, four budgets later, to be worse than we were? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u186	To reply, Mr Jorge Falcato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that you have not heard anything that I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u188	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u189	Four budgets have passed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u190	It is 22 years of insecurity and exclusion of disabled people. It's 22 years! Where the honourable Member has walked these 22 years, I don't know! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u191	Is that your answer? Oh, my God! Four budgets have passed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u192	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u193	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, Parliament is attending an act of left-block contribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u195	The socialist drift towards left extremism caused the Bloc and PCP to approve four State budgets. PS, PCP and Block are responsible for government failure on the railway! Never in Portuguese democracy has a government made so little public investment. Without public investment, with a left-wing majority lost in parliamentary and government arrangements, Portuguese were condemned to the degradation of public services. Portugal wasted the effort made by the Portuguese in the years of the troika, left to overcome and returned to the tail of Europe. at the same time as the government presented families with the highest tax burden ever, witnessed the degradation of the health, education and justice system, people wait for one year for reform. We live times of illusion. Promises and more promises that, instead of turning into investment, allowed the collapse of the public transport system. The Block, for four years, asleep by the dream of becoming a PS mule in the government, allowed everything. Now, on top of the elections, he is looking for votes and importance. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last four years, this majority has done nothing to save the railway. Structural investment, pointed out year after year as a national priority, turned into chaos: overcrowded carriages, abolished trains, falling engines, an absolute breakdown due to lack of investment. They delayed the review of regional trains and wasted hundreds of thousands of euros in renting Spain. Every day we have a feeling of bipolarity: two countries. of people, we heard reports of the abolition of trains, accompanied by warnings of the administration of CP. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] from this majority and from the Block we are left for a sad silence of those who changed principles by ambition. To the people of nothing is worth this theatrical act of contrition. The Block not only allowed the enthusiasm of this government. They are partners in the sharp degradation of public services. [[BE's protests.]] The Portuguese effort allowed the agreement to be fulfilled with the troika. We have created bases for the recovery of the country, for its development. After four years, we should be like the best, but on the contrary, we have anchored at the bottom of the European championship. Let's ask ourselves, where has the Block been these years? Outside of time, like Pilates, they now present a proposal for the future of the railway, which sands for the eyes, forgetting that for four years they were responsible for Portugal's lowest public investment in democratic history. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Delays in the 2020 railway in some cases exceed three years. The level of implementation of the investment was less than 10 % in January of this year. In 2018, they only executed 50 % of what they had planned. In every year, there has been a lack of investment, there have been cuts left, there has been a lack of demagogy. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are all well aware of the successive announcements of former Minister Pedro Marques, always selling illusion and blaming the past, the past of those who, with enormous sacrifice, left the country that allowed António Costa to announce the turn of the page of austerity. I refer to an example of my district: the Government of the Socialist Party started the cars in 2010 and then abandoned the works. [[PS and PCP protests.]] It was the same government that at the time undertook to close 800 km of railway in the country. And then what did we have? On the eve of an authentic election, Minister Pedro Marques promised the BRT ( Bus Rapid Transit ) and, on the eve of the European elections, he again launched the first competition. And what did the Portuguese see? Nothing, so far!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u196	But you were almost going into that story!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u197	Although this government has inherited a country without a troika, people are still waiting for everything. [[PS, PS and PCP protests.]] The Block has enabled each of the four State budgets, have always been complicit in this governance and are now trying to get rid of the blame they bear. Question: Why did the Block never require the government to invest in the railway? Why did they allow the government to keep the processes for the purchase of rolling stock in the drawer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u198	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u199	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we face a forgotten left, the left that criticized the government for the lack of investment, forgetting that we were in pre-banking inherited from the PS, is the same as, already without troika, trying to forget that it approved four State budgets. [[PSD applause.]] Those responsible for the damage caused by this government must assume their responsibility. Strong democracy requires a fight against populism and responsibility. It is not possible to be government three and a half years and now, on top of the elections, to try to be opposition. Portugal is not stage theatre and requires seriousness. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] The discussion of a structured and future railway plan should always be done at the beginning of a legislature. Now, it's time to live the present. It stresses the need for staff recruitment and evaluation of the lack of public investment made in the last four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u200	Everything the PSD didn't do! If it wasn't so bad, I'd laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u201	People on the waiting list in hospitals, people waiting for trains, who do not appear, are the reviews of the Real Country! to the Block, there will be no act of contrition against the guilt of this government! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u202	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The intervention of the PSD bench reveals a complete disorientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u204	You're the ones who're out of sight!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u205	In fact, they are so fluent when they are in opposition, but when they can really do a real job for Portuguese and Portuguese, what do they do? Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u206	But the government is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u207	They call for impoverishment, call for emigration and thus fill the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow them to try to rewrite history and, with this scenario of theatre done here in Parliament, try to be credible. In fact, today the debate should be serious, it should be about the railway, it should be about how to view the country's future with this important element, as the Socialist Party's Government has wanted to demonstrate, even with a plan of carbonization and carbon neutrality, and we, in the PS, regard it very seriously. That is why we believe that thinking and discussing this matter is always positive; however, as we have seen, it seems more that it is being done in a somewhat electoral way, let me say so. The national investment plan is currently being discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, we call for all banks to contribute and build a consensus, where, of course, railway is included, and everything is ignored, in this bill, trying to do again. A discussion of these cannot be separated from the responsibility and the need for programmatic prioritization, and that is why, without prejudice to discussing and planning the country, we should concentrate on implementing what is already planned and I think with everyone's agreement. As has been said here, these are infrastructure projects, as outlined in the 2020 Railway Plan, the Mining Line, the North Line, the Douro Line, the North International Corridor, the South International Corridor. We have this plan in progress and it cannot be minimized. We have more than 2000 million for investment in this plan, which adds more than 4 billion to the NIP. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also have other instruments that coordinate with this, such as the PNPOT ( National Territorial Policy Programme), the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality and the PT 2030. These are strategic investments that are under way, for example, as I said, the North International Corridor. And I remember that, for example, the Beira Baixa Line had been stopped for more than a decade and it was this government that resumed its electrification, which is already in progress, and the reopening of the Covilhã-Guarda section, as well as the connection to the Beira Alta Line, called the "Concordance of the Beiras". [[P.S.'s applause.]] We still have to invest, as far as the system is concerned, in an important company, which is the CP, and also in EMEF. It has already been said here by the Minister that resources are needed to strengthen it, both in terms of capital and in terms of human resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying that it is necessary to take into account that the CP, in this year 2018, transported 126 million passengers, which means a lot about the service provided, which needs to be improved, which has to be taken into account throughout the country, which we have a lot to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u208	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u209	Therefore, with seriousness and responsibility, we will continue to fight for a better railway, but taking into account all that we have ahead of us for its implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u210	To close the debate, on behalf of the proposed parliamentary group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor, which benefits from the one-minute transfer by the NAP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate we brought here today, unlike some of the accusations made, is not new. The first draft resolution presented by the Left Block to this House, in this legislature, still in 2015, aimed at the realization of a national railway plan. The fact that we now come with a bill is because for these four years the government has not done what the Assembly of the Republic has recommended. And, register, because there seems to be a memory loss on the side of the PSD and CDS benches,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u212	Yeah? Oh, my God! It's been four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u213	... that the problem of them with the railway is not solved by the rhetoric they brought here today, but is seen in the votes they have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u214	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u215	It is that in 2015 the PSD and the CDS were the only parliamentary groups that voted against this left block proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u216	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u217	Therefore, if any act of contribution would have to exist today, here, for this proposal to be viable, it was the PSD and the CDS, recognizing that they were, in the past, against the railway and that, now, they would be in favour, something that has not happened, because we know that in the present they are against the railway in our country. on the side of the Socialist Party, the accusation also appears as a sneeze, because we have given the government the opportunity to study, to dialogue, to do so, and the government has not done what the Assembly of the Republic has recommended.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u218	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u219	So when it was expected that the PS Parliamentary Group would take its vote seriously and now it would be consistent, not allowing it to be a lost legislature in practice, it would also shield itself in rhetoric for nothing to do. As a result, we are here, by the hand of the PSD, of the CDS, but also of the PS, to see « the trains pass ». Therefore, Mr President, it is fact that we are close to elections and, if I were the driver of this train, I could only ask you to speed up, because this station clearly is not up to the defense of the country's railway, it is not up to the country's climate emergency and at the time of the step forward that this bill meant. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u220	In the second item on the agenda, without time allocated for discussion, there is motion for a resolution No 87 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola, signed in Luanda, on 18 September 2018. In the third point, also without time allocated for discussion, there is motion for a resolution No 89 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru on the Reduction of Research and Prevention and Combating the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, signed in Lisbon on 30 January 2012. We then turn to the fourth point on the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 200 presences, to which Mrs Carla Cruz ( PCP ) is added, making a total of 201 Members, so we have quorum to vote. Let's start by voting vote No 820 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — Despite the death of Commander Ángelo Azevedo, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco. The family is present in the galleries, I join in the grieving of the family.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u221	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Yesterday, on 25 April, the day of freedom, the Commander Angel Azevedo died, born on 17 November 1936, in Cesar, Oliveira de Azemés. He served the public case for decades in defense of the interest of all the olive trees. He was President of the Municipal Chamber of Oliveira de Azemés and President of the Municipal Assembly, President of the Board of Freguesia de Cesar, having played an essential role in the development of the school and road network as well as in the creation of sports spaces. Mr. Angelo da Silva Azevedo was thanked in 2003 with the Order of Merit and the title of Commander. He was a man who developed his political activity always in favor of the interest of his parish and his council and a diplomat in his family, business and political life. It will remain in history as one of the men who praised and empowered the growth of the municipality of Oliveira de Azemés. The municipality of Oliveira de Azemés became so poorer. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic manifests to the family and friends of the Commander Angel of Silva Azevedo his most significant grief».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u222	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of us to keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on vote No 821 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD member ) — From praise to the futsal team of the Sporting Club of Portugal for the conquest of the Futsal Champions League. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on vote No 822 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD Members ) — From praise to the football team of the Football Club of Porto for the achievement of UEFA Youth League 2019. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on vote No 823 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — From praise to the futsal team of the Sporting Club of Portugal. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 824 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) :— From praise to the team of sub-19 of the Football Club of Porto. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote on draft Law No 1204 / XIII / 4 is now under way. a (BE) — Approves the guidelines of the national rail plan and an investment programme for its implementation. [[Subject to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 87 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola, signed in Luanda, on 18 September 2018. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall vote on resolution No 89 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru on the Reduction of Research and Prevention and Combating the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, signed in Lisbon on 30 January 2012. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 703 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Flexibility of daycare hours by means of social security cooperation agreements, incentives to establish them by companies and promotion of agreements between childcare establishments and employers. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 704 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the increase of three to five cycles of assisted drug reproductive treatments shared by the National Health Service. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We will vote on draft resolution No 715 / XIII / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote reconciliation between professional, family and personal life. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 2013 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government step up control of invasive species in the National Park of Peneda-Gerês. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 2076 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national forest control and eradication plan for invasive species in protected areas. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the project we just voted down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 2089 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national action plan for the surveillance and control of alien invasive woodland, giving priority to protected areas. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this project is also down to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 2104 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Action plan to monitor, control and eliminate woody invasive species, in particular in protected areas and in areas covered by fire. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this project is also down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 2107 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government step up the fight against invasive exotic species. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The project that we just voted also goes down to 11. the Commission. The final text presented by the National Defence Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 172 / XIII / 4 shall be voted on in the speciality. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. Let us begin by voting for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since for the final overall vote of the final text, whose indicative votes we have just taken, if an absolute majority of Members are required to be effective in their duties, we must resort to voting by electronic means, so I ask the services to prepare the system. [[Pause.]] We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the National Defence Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 172 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 168 votes in favour (PSD, PS, CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira), 18 against (BE) and 17 abstentions (PCP, The Greens and PAN).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u223	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u224	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u225	Mr President, it is to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u226	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u227	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u228	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u229	Mr President, it is to inform me that my vote was not recorded, but I abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u230	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u231	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u232	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u233	Mr President, it is also to announce that my vote has not been recorded, but it is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u234	All right, Mr. Deputies, it's registered now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u235	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u236	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u237	It is to inform you that my vote has not been recorded, but it is against, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u238	All right, Mr. Deputies, it's registered now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u239	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u240	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u241	Mr President, it is only to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u242	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u243	Mr President, I just want to inform you that my vote has not been recorded, but it is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u244	Be registered now, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the statement by the honourable Members. Members who have not been able to register, it should be clarified that the final text submitted by the National Defence Commission on the proposal for Law No 172 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act, in a comprehensive vote, obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 170 votes in favour ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira ), 19 votes against ( BE ) and 18 abstentions ( CFP, The Greens and the NAP ). Mrs. Members, we now turn to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Health Committee on Bills No 1007 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Access to the civil identity of donors of gametes by persons born as a result of treatments or procedures for assisted medicinal products and creation of a transitional standard for donations prior to 24 April 2018 ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), 1010 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Access to information on the civil identification of donors in assisted medical procreation processes, 1024 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( Law on the Processing of Medicinal Products Assisted ) — Properly the system of confidentiality of donors under Judgment No 225 / 2018 of 24 April 2018 of the Constitutional Court, 1031 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the regime of confidentiality in assisted medicinal product breeding treatments ( fifth amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July 2006 regulating the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques ), and 1033 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June, allowing access to the identity of the donor of gametes or embryos by persons born as a result of assisted medical procreation processes. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the vote against the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u245	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u246	Ask for the floor to what effect, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u247	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u248	At the end of the debate, you will make the statement of an oral vote. Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u249	Mr President, I have entered for the same purpose, i.e. for an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u250	All right, Mr. Deputies, it's registered. Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u251	Mr President, I have requested the floor for exactly the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u252	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. He will also orally make his statement of vote following those previously announced. We shall now proceed to the vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u253	I'm sorry, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u254	Mr President, I am sorry but we are in the middle of the vote. We shall generally vote for Law No 39 / XIII / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — The third amendment is made to the Labour Code and the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 in its current wording, in order to strengthen the protection regime in parenthood. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Now, yes, you have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u255	Mr President, I had asked the floor before this vote because it seemed important to us that it had not happened, by the following fact: there is a replacement text, voted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on the subject of which this proposal for a law of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which, moreover, took into account this proposal for a law of the Regional Legislative Assembly. It therefore seems to us that the replacement text should also include the proposed law of the Regional Legislative Assembly as replaced text. I therefore asked for the floor before the vote, because, of course, if there were any agreement between all the banks, we would not have done that vote and would give the replacement text as a substitute for the proposed law of the Regional Legislative Assembly. Nevertheless, even after the vote has been taken, I would like to make this suggestion to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u256	Mr President, in any event, the Bureau must follow the indications given in the script and is not in a position to make amendments without knowing in detail what has happened in their committees. So let us continue the votes, as planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u257	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u258	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u259	Mr President, I would just like to point out that our abstention comes from what Mr. João Oliveira said earlier.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u260	Mrs. Members are informing me that the services have asked the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira if they intend to withdraw the proposal, but have not yet obtained an answer. We must therefore follow the indication of the services. We now proceed to the vote on an application by the CDS-PP for a vote by the plenary on amendments to draft Law No 431 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approves the Labour Code, making the parental leave exclusive of the father flexible and extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents to their children, and 455 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 which increases the period of parental leave in case of birth of children with disabilities or rare disease within 60 days and creates parental leave for premature birth, associated with disability or rare disease, more than 6 weeks before the presumed date of birth. The CDS will present the request orally and then proceed immediately to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u261	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u262	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u263	Mr President, if I may, as there are two requests for counsel, propose that the two requests be voted on together and that each parliamentary group have only two minutes to discuss its articles. of our part, we waived the submission of the application.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u264	Mr President, what is expected is that each group presenting a request has two minutes, followed by the vote. This is what will be done. The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group shall use the floor to submit its request.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u265	Mr President, I am sorry but what I was trying to say is that the CFP is not presenting the request, since there will be debate after the approval of the requests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u266	There will only be debate if the request is approved, Mr. Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u267	Mr President, on this assumption, and since the CFP is absent, the CDS-PP also excludes the submission of the application.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u268	Therefore, and since both parliamentary groups do not have the floor to present their requests, we shall jointly vote on the requests submitted by the CDS-PP and the PCP for a vote by the plenary on the speciality of the amendments proposed by the CDS-PP and the PCP respectively to Bill 431 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approves the Labour Code, making the parental leave exclusive of the father flexible and extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents to their children, and 455 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, to the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and to the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 which increases the period of parental leave in case of birth of children with disabilities or rare disease within 60 days and creates the parental leave for premature birth, associated with disability or rare disease, more than 6 weeks before the presumed date of birth, and to Bill No 177 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the debate and vote on the speciality, each parliamentary group shall have two minutes to do so. Mrs Rita Rato from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We have concluded today a very important legislative process with regard to the strengthening of maternity and paternity rights, but, first of all, very important for strengthening the rights of children and their best interests. We understand that some of the proposals that are here, and which have been discussed, particularly that of the 100 % payment of the specific maternity leave, in the situation where pregnant women and babies are exposed to professional risks, which was approved at the initiative of the CFP, are of the greatest importance. The PCP, for 10 years, fought for this proposal, brought it here more than six times and for 10 years it was rejected by PS, PSD and CDS-PP. It was worth defeating the PSD/CDS-PP government to be able to approve this proposal today and strengthen the rights of these workers and children in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u271	We have also put forward other proposals on these matters which we want to see discussed. So today, we advocate and propose payment to 100% of the mother's exclusive maternity leave up to six months, as recommended by the World Health Organization, in the defense of breastfeeding and breastfeeding. It is a recommendation of the World Health Organization, which is therefore essential to ensure the strengthening of maternity leave. We are not those who think that rights should be withdrawn, we believe that the strengthening of one's rights should not be done at the expense of the withdrawal of others' rights. The strengthening of mother's rights must be done at the expense of strengthening father's rights and the strengthening of parents' rights must also be done at the expense of strengthening mother's rights. unlike the CDS, we do not discuss rights and do not divide them. We understand that strengthening one's rights is essential and that is why we bring this proposal here. It is essential to ensure that 100 % of maternity leave is paid up to 6 months to all mothers, in defense of breastfeeding and breastfeeding, but above all in defence of the best interests of children. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u272	Mrs Carla Tavares of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we come to the end of a long process which culminated in the adoption, in committee, of a replacement text which will also be voted on today. This replacement text changed 46 articles of the Labour Code and also Decrees-Law Nos. 89 / 2009 and 91 / 2009. of these articles, 43 were written by the Socialist Party and 40 of them were approved unanimously. Articles whose amendments are the authorship of other parliamentary groups have also been approved. That is, 93 % of the articles were actually amended by the Socialist Party's proposal and 87 % of the amended articles were approved unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we are going to vote today is the process that culminated this week, after a long job, and to which we have called « true revolution in parenthood». The rights of all have been strengthened: of parents, mothers, but above all children. We have finally been approved, and I cannot fail to note this aspect, the extended parental leave for preterm infants born up to 33 weeks of gestation, in which all the time of admission will be paid at 30 days. It was also approved a license, up to 30 days, for the admission of any child who is born and who needs it. The father's compulsory parental leave was increased from 15 to 20 working days. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this was a manifesto, a clear strengthening of rights, and it was only possible to realize it in 2019 because the Socialist Party is the party that is in the government and that made all the difference. It does not help the CDS to come now to recover some proposals that have been piped or damaged. The fact is that this proposal by the Socialist Party and this final text of substitution were the result of a collaboration and a very intense work, and this, yes, should be highlighted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u274	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that today effectively concludes an intensive legislative process and, above all, important for families. This is a set of amendments to the Labour Code, of course, but also to other legal diplomas, with regard to parenthood and support for families. The PSD welcomes the way in which this process took place, whose working group I had the privilege of being coordinator. Thanks to the support of all parliamentary groups, I would just like to say that we regret that some proposals on prematurity, submitted by the PSD, have not been approved. Of course, because in our view there was greater support for families and children themselves, because we anticipated an increase in parental leave ranging from 30 days to 120 days, which allowed for greater proximity of parents to children. Nevertheless, even if our proposals have not been adopted, we do not fail to support the proposals put forward by the other parliamentary groups and to stress, above all, that this is a time to congratulate ourselves, because, regardless of the origin of the proposals, the interests of families must prevail. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u276	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Block of Left brought to this Parliament and to the working group of parenthood a set of proposals aimed at strengthening the rights of workers and, in particular, pregnant, puerperal and lactating workers, the rights of parenthood of parents and mothers, the equality of all families in access to these parental leaves and also the right of children with disabilities, chronic or oncological disease and their parents caregivers and caregivers. I would therefore like to highlight five results that were the subject of this working group. First, the recognition of a special license in cases of prematurity, not only adding days to the license, but adding the entire period of hospitalization of children who are hospitalized for reasons of prematurity or other medical complications. Secondly, the extension of the father's compulsory licence. It was a proposal from the Left Block, which was adopted, and we regret that, while we made progress on the compulsory leave, the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party have joined together to withdraw the optional leave the days we added to the compulsory licence. We could have gone further in enlargement, we could have gone further in the recognition of the rights of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers, particularly during the experimental period, during which they remain unprotected. Thirdly, equality in parental rights in the case of families who use assisted medicinal product procreation or, then, in cases of adoption. It is a very important sign in terms of equality. Fourthly, I would like to highlight two proposals from the approved Left Block: one that extends, from four to six years, the licence for assistance to children with disabilities and another, approved unanimously, so that they do not limit the license and the allowance in the dramatic case, but unfortunately existing, of children with terminal diseases. In fact, the licence should have no limit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u278	I ask you to finish, Mr. Deputies. He had two minutes and he's already outnumbered them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u279	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, on the islands, I believe it was important to give a sign of recognition to the workers who travel between the islands, the right to have a licence and a allowance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u280	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS has presented a wide range of proposals in the context of the discussion on licences and the issue of parenthood. We were the first to do so in this legislature. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Much of these proposals resulted from two packages and two initiatives that we have discussed here. The first agenda was about family policies, in which we had several proposals regarding parenthood and the relationship between parenthood and professional life. In the second package, linked to the issue of policies for people with disabilities, we have presented a wide range of proposals which have also been discussed here. What we saw, as a final result, was that many parties subsequently followed the CDS proposals, in terms identical to those of the CDS or more modest terms, often ending up being those more modest terms that were enshrined, in an attitude that we called some « hypocrisy », especially from the extreme left, the Left Block and the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u282	The extreme right is hypocritical!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u283	They've always been down!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u284	Otherwise, let us look at three examples taken from what we are discussing. The CDS proposed, also the result of the hearings of many entities and a very extensive debate and much beyond the party understanding of the CDS, that there was a concrete measure that would favour the exclusive enjoyment of the licence by the different parental officials. We did so because this is an internationally discussed measure and it was beneficial. The scientific community has pointed out this as a measure that should be promoted. Well, the Left Block, the PCP and PS voted against. We made a proposal that, from the birth of the third child, there would be a positive discrimination, with the increase in parental leave. Whoever has three or four children has to have more time. Well, the Left Block, the PCP and PS voted against. Finally, we proposed that, with regard to the prematureity of children, the licence should be extended during this prematurity period. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The scandal of the scandals, the PCP, despite receiving the associations of the sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u285	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u286	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, despite receiving industry associations, the PCP said one thing and then did another. On behalf of the stability of management, he voted against. We hope that this vote will have another outcome today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u287	Let us turn to the votes in the supplementary script. We shall, in particular, vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP, amending Articles 1. o is 2. the draft Law No 431 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approves the Labour Code, making the parental leave exclusive to the father flexible and extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to the grandparents. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1 Subject This Act increases the initial parental leave for 210 days, amends the father's exclusive parental leave, flexibly temporarily and eliminates discrimination for workers working beyond 5 working days and extends the possibility of enjoying the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents. Article 2 Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7/2009 of 12 February. Articles 40, 43, 51 and 52 of the Labour Code, as approved by Law No 7/2009 of 12 February 2009, as amended by Law No 105/2009 of 14 September 2011, 53/2011 of 14 October, 23/2012 of 25 June, 47/2012 of 29 August, 69/2013 of 30 August, 27/2014 of 8 May, 55/2014 of 25 August, 28/2015 of 14 April, 120/2015 of 1 September and 8/2016 of 1 April, are replaced by the following: Article 40 Parental Licence Initial 1 — (...) 2 — (...) 3 — — — 4 — The licence referred to in paragraph 1 shall be increased by 60 days, in the case of each parent enjoying a period of 60 consecutive days or two consecutive days after the period of compulsory parental enjoyment, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the following Article. 5 — (previous paragraph 4) 6 — From the birth of the third child the licence provided for in the preceding numbers is increased in 15 days for each parent. 7 — (previous paragraph 5) 8 — (previous paragraph 6) 9 — (previous paragraph 7) 10 — (previous paragraph 8) 11 — (previous paragraph 9) 12 — (previous paragraph 10) 13 — (previous paragraph 11) (...)]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u288	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 2. the draft Law No 455 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 which increases the period of parental leave in case of birth of children with disabilities or rare disease within 60 days and creates parental leave for premature birth, associated with disability or rare disease, more than 6 weeks before the presumed date of birth. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] [[Article 2 (...) Article 40 of the Labour Code, as approved by Law No 7/2009 of 12 February 2009, as amended by Law No 105/2009 of 14 September 2011, 53/2011 of 14 October, 23/2012 of 25 June, 47/2012 of 29 August, 69/2013 of 30 August, 27/2014 of 8 May, 55/2014 of 25 August, 28/2015 of 14 April, 120/2015 of 1 September, and 8/2016 of 1 April, is replaced by the following: Article 40 Initial Parental Licence 1 — (...) 2 — 3 — (...) 4 — 5 — In the case of birth of a child with disabilities or rare illness, the initial parental leave shall be increased by 60 days, and this period may be enjoyed by the mother or father in accordance with this Article. 6 — (previous paragraph 5) 7 — (previous paragraph 6) 8 — (previous paragraph 7) 9 — In the absence of the declaration referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 the licence shall be granted by the mother. 10 — (previous paragraph 9) 11 — (previous paragraph 10) 12 — (previous paragraph 11).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u289	We also voted on the proposal by the CDS-PP to amend Articles 4. o, 5. o, 6. a is 7. the, also of the Bill No 455 / XIII / 2. a. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4 Amendment to Decree-Law No 89/2009 of 9 April Articles 4 and 23 of Decree-Law No 89/2009 of 9 April defining and regulating parenthood protection in the context of maternity, paternity and adoption in the convergent social protection regime as amended by Decree-Law No 133/2012 of 27 June and Law No 120/2015 of 1 September are replaced by the following wording: Article 4 Material Scope 1 — (...): 2 — The initial parental allowance comprises the following terms: (a) (...); (b) (...); (c) Parental allowance for premature birth; (d) [previous point (c)]; and (e) [previous point (d)]). Article 23 Amount of allowances 1 — (...) 2 — (...) 3 — (...) 4 — The daily amount of the remaining allowances provided for in this Decree corresponds to the following percentages of the beneficiary’s reference remuneration: (a) Parental allowance for premature birth, 100%; (b) [previous point (a)]; (c) [previous point (b)]; (d) [previous point (c)]; (e) [previous point (d)]; (f) [previous point (e)]; (g) [previous point (f)]. Article 5 Addendum to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 712009 of 12 February Article 41a of the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7/2009 of 12 February 2009, as amended by Law No 105/2009 of 14 September 2011, 53/2011 of 14 October, 23/2012 of 25 June, 47/2012 of 29 August, 69/2013 of 30 August, 27/2014 of 8 May, 55/2014 of 25 August, 28/2015 of 14 April, 120/2015 of 1 September, and 8/2016 of 1 April has the following wording: Article 41-A Parental License for Premature Birth 1 — In the case of premature birth, the days between the effective date of birth and the presumed date of birth are added to the maternity leave period, if the same is greater than 3 weeks. 2 — For the purposes of the above paragraph, the worker shall inform the employer of this purpose and submit medical evidence indicating the expected date of delivery as soon as possible. Article 6 Addendum to Decree-Law No 91/2009 of 9 April Articles 13a and 30a of Decree-Law No 91/2009 of 9 April establishing the legal regime for social protection in parenthood within the framework of the social security system and the solidarity subsystem, as amended by Decree-Law No 70/2010, 16 June, Decree-Law No 133/2012 of 27 June, and Law 120/2015 of 1 September 2015 have the following wording: Article 13a Parental Subsidy for Premature Birth The parental allowance for Premature Birth is granted for the days between the effective date of birth and the presumed date of birth, if the same is longer than 3 weeks, which are not part of the grant period corresponding to the initial parental allowance. Article 30a Amount of parental allowance for premature birth The daily amount of parental allowance for premature birth is equal to 100% of the reference remuneration of the beneficiary. Article 7 Addendum to Decree-Law No 89/2009 of 9 April Article 12a of Decree-Law No 89/2009 of 9 April defining and regulating parenthood protection in the context of maternity, paternity and adoption, in the convergence social protection regime, as amended by Decree-Law No 133/2012 of 27 June and Law No 120/2015 of 1 September has the following wording: Article 12a Parental Subsidy for Premature Birth The parental allowance for premature birth is granted for days corresponding to the days of the newborn's stay after the discharge of the mother, who are not part of the grant period corresponding to the initial parental allowance.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u290	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 40. the Law No. 7 / 2009, of 12 February, in its current wording, contained in the Bill No. 177 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] [[(b) In the case of the father, the initial parental leave is granted for a period of up to 60 days, exclusively enjoyed by the father. 2 — Excluding the defined period of compulsory enjoyment by the father that must necessarily coincide with the enjoyment of the mother's exclusive initial parental leave, the period defined for the enjoyment of the father's initial parental leave may coincide in whole or in part with the period of the initial parental leave defined for the mother. 3 — (repeal.) 4 —... 5 —... 6 —... 7 —... 8 —... 9 —... 10 —... 11 —...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u291	We are now also voting on the proposal by the CFP to amend Article 30. the Decree-Law No. 91 / 2009, of 9 April, in its current wording, contained in the Bill No. 177 / XIII / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 30 (...) Regardless of the form of enjoyment by which parents opt, the daily amount of the initial parental allowance corresponds to 100% of the reference remuneration of the beneficiary.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u292	We have reached the end of this supplementary script. We shall now, in general, vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bills Nos 177 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights, 354 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the protection of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers and workers in the enjoyment of parental leave and amends the Labour Code and the Labour Law in Public Functions, 462 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — Creates a specific prematurity or hospital admission license for newborns, 214 / XIII / 1. a ( The Greens) — Strengthens the initial parental leave up to 210 days, extends the period of parental leave in the event of premature birth and extends the exemption for breastfeeding and breastfeeding to follow up to 3 years of age, promoting an amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, 344 / XIII / 2. a ( BE ) — Protects pregnant worker, puerpera or lactating in the experimental period, making it mandatory to make prior opinion of the ISCED in the event of a complaint of the employment contract by the employer, 461 / XIII / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends parental protection to parents with children with disabilities or rare disease, 566 / XIII / 2. a ( BE) — Establish equality in parenthood in the event of adoption, including the adoption by couples of the same sex, and the use of PMA techniques and extend the sole parental leave period of the father ( tenth fifth amendment to the Labour Code and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April ), 431 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The first amendment is made to Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code, flexible the exclusive parental leave of the father and extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to the grandparents, 455 / XIII / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — The first amendment to Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No. 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No. 89 / 2009 which increases the period of parental leave in case of birth of children with disabilities or rare disease within 60 days and creates the parental leave for premature birth, associated with disability or rare disease, more than 6 weeks before the presumed date of birth, 741 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — The tenth amendment is made to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, which establishes the dispensation for child assistance in place of the allowance for breastfeeding or breastfeeding, 738 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April, introducing changes to the adoption regime and adapting the protection regime in parenthood to assisted medicinal product procreation, 739 / XIII / 3. a ( PAN) — Amends the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 and Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 strengthening the protection regime in parenthood, 740 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Protection of parenthood in situations of adoption and use of drug procreation assisted by couples of the same sex, and the Proposal for a Law No 39 / XIII / 2. a ( ALRAM ) — The third amendment to the Labour Code and the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 in its current wording is to strengthen the protection regime in parenthood ( the authors of the bills withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also voted in the specialty for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at Commission level. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now have the overall final vote on the replacement text that we have just voted on in general. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following are the explanations of vote, which have been announced by several banks, in relation to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Health Committee on Bills No 1007 / XIII / 4. a ( BE), 1010 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ), 1024 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ), 1031 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 1033 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN). You have the floor for a statement of vote by Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We said last December, during the general discussion, that we were committed and available to improve our proposal as a specialist in order to find a text that would allow couples and families who had started treatment and had had to stop and therefore stayed with their suspended lives to continue treatment and realize their wishes to be parents. Today, we are proud to have contributed, actively and decisively, to the construction of a final text that, in full respect of the decision of the Constitutional Court, allows couples and families to continue the treatments and procedures of LDCs (assisted drug procreation) and thus to realize their desires and dreams—to be parents or mothers. The scheme now approved allows children born following the techniques of WFP to access the civil identity of the donor, but also allows, as was assumed by Prof. Miguel Oliveira da Silva, and I quote, "do not waste biological material" donated benevolently — material that is scarce — and safeguard the contract that these donors had assumed, i.e. donated the biological material on the basis of a contract that provided for the anonymity of the donation. With this approval, we have made a clear contribution to the realization of the desires and aspirations of couples and families who need to use assisted reproductive techniques and can thus carry them out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u294	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, also has the floor for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Left Block would like to greet the parties and greet all for the vote that took place today, in plenary, which once again makes available the medical procreation procedures assisted to all women, regardless of their sexual orientation or regardless of their marital status. Without surprise, the CDS-PP voted against, as it voted against, in 2016, the advance of the law, as it voted against, in 2006, the existence of LDCs in Portugal. We expect nothing from the CDS-PP, nobody expects anything from the CDS-PP when it comes to gaining rights, when it comes to combating discrimination. So it's not surprising. The problem is that, about a year ago, a ruling by the Constitutional Court, reflecting on the confidentiality of the donor, made the entire WFP in Portugal suspended. Procedures were cancelled in half. Thousands of people who were requesting access to WFP were prevented from doing so. Thousands of embryos were at risk of destruction. Therefore, in October last year, the Left Block presented a bill in the Assembly of the Republic to resolve the impasse that was created with the Constitutional Court judgment. Other bills have joined together and it was actually possible, with the exception of the CDS-PP — but without surprise, from this point of view — to arrive at a resolution for this problem. With what has been approved today, WFP is again available in Portugal for all women, without discrimination and ensuring that life projects, parenthood projects can again be accessible in Portugal. That was the message I would like to leave here today, when we finally vote on a law that allows WFP to be accessible to all people. [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u296	Also for a statement of vote, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all know, the law of WFP is 2006 — in 2006 there was already the rule of relative confidentiality of the donor. It was a very important law, but it was changed, in particular with a draft law of the Socialist Party, which followed what was contained in our Election Programme and in our Government Programme, i.e., to end the idea of illegal mothers. It was possible for women to be mothers through WFP, regardless of their sexual orientation or their marital status. It was a great victory in 2016! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u298	The idea of illegal mothers evidently ended with the vote against the CDS. As you know last year, a Constitutional Court ruling reversed its case law and understood that two rules in the article of donor anonymity would be unconstitutional. This problem was raised not because Members were concerned about this earlier, but because they were worried, precisely because there are these women who are now able to resort to WFP. The PS presented a bill, as other parties also did — except, of course, the CDS, which only cares about the « catalogue families» —, draft law, that which sought, as other bills, to solve what was the suspension of both the lives of these women and couples. It was lives that were completely suspended and that, even with the approval of this text that these parties have joined together, some of them will not be resolved because the age of these women has reached the limit, in particular today's day on which we are celebrating this approval. So what we have to celebrate is the lives that will stop being suspended, the lives of thousands of couples, the lives of thousands of women who, with this approval, will be able to carry out their projects of happiness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u300	We can then go back to normal and reaffirm what our commitment to all motherhoods is: there are no illegal mothers! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u301	For a statement of vote, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes this approval and the result of the legislative process that took place in the working group where amendments were introduced to the law of WFP, following the Constitutional Court judgment. We have heard many entities, many personalities, the national councils responsible for these matters and, therefore, we are aware that we have done work for the rights of couples with reproductive health problems that have not enabled them to achieve the dream of having a child, including those who have pending treatment and who have already been initiated. I once said, in this House, and I repeat it, that there should be few more difficult feelings than this, that a couple can have a child, that they can have it, and that they can not achieve it for medical reasons, but for medical reasons that are ultrapassible. This is what we have tried to resolve within this working group, trying to reconcile the decision of the Constitutional Court, particularly on the issue of confidentiality, in our view we have fully complied with the decision of the Constitutional Court on this matter, also with regard to donors of genetic material, who had already donated their material, and also with regard to the possibility of destroying this material and the transitional regime. We made the distinction that, in our view, would have to be made, because there is different dignity between gamétes and embryos. Therefore, the feeling of the PSD Parliamentary Group is that, indeed, we are contributing with a genuine effort and nothing political. We do not, at least, want to politicize what is not politicizable in our view. In fact, to bring to this debate other situations which at no cost suffice to solve the specific problems of these families is, in our view, wrong. What we did was try to solve it. What has moved us was precisely the will, the enormous will, of solving the problems of these couples, who had, and have, the will to have children and to have them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-03.u303	I will now present the agenda for the plenary meeting on Wednesday, 8 May. We have a first point, political declarations, followed by a second point, which are the assessment of petitions Nos 495 / XIII / 3. a ( Association of IP3 Users and Survivors ) — Urgent intervention in IP3, for security, accessibility and development, and 504 / XIII / 3. a ( João Fernando Marques Rebelo Cotta et al.) — They request the adoption of measures with a view to the complete and appropriate requalification of IP3, together with Resolution Projects Nos 1499 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Construction of road linkage in a motorway profile between Viseu and Coimbra, ensuring an unmanaged solution, 1486 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the re-qualification of IP3, its maintenance without tolls and in security conditions, 1663 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify the main route No 3 ( IP3 ) and 1634 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Urgent requalification of IP3, between Coimbra and Viseu, and its maintenance without tolls. We also have a third point, of which the assessment of Petition No 330 / XIII / 2. a ( Liliana Isabel Rodrigues Madeira Grigor and others) — They request that the parental leave be enjoyed up to 1 year to 100 %, together with, in general, the Bill No 1092 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Change Law No. 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, Decree-Law No. 89 / 2009 and Decree-Law No. 91 / 2009, both of 9 April, extending parental leave in the event of premature birth. We thus finish our work with a good weekend vote for all. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 46 minutes.]]
