ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you know, the first item on the agenda consists of a thematic debate required by the CFP Parliamentary Group on Art Support. To open the debate, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u2	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The CFP starts by welcoming the companies, creators, movements and unions in struggle, and some of its representatives are, or will be, present today in the galleries. On 11 October, the results concerning the biennial support contest for the arts were published, but came out of time. The applications for the Sustained Support Programme, in the biennial mode, opened on 28 March, and, according to a government statement, the aim of the anticipation of the opening of the competition in the previous years would be to enable the structures to know the final results in September 2019, to prepare early and in a framework of greater stability the activity for the following two years. The deadline was reaching its limit and several companies brought their apprehension to the CFP. The elections were at the door and they told us that if the results were so good, they would logically be known before 6 October. At the last day of September, the results did not come. The government failed with the word and frustrated the expectations of many. After the elections, there came the results, and the bad news too. Tens of applications considered eligible were out of public support; others, assessed as not eligible, also saw their future committed. This is an unacceptable situation. It did not reach this point by chance or simply incompetence. It was the result of the right-wing policy practiced in our country for years. The degradation of cultural life is not an accident, it is a weapon that attempts to break the resistance of the people and impose the general backwardness of rights. Madam Minister, it is a challenge to see the response of the guardianship and the government to what is happening. Which jump-skip, they're pulling from justifications to the unjustifiable and from leaks forward. First, it was such a critical review of the model, whatever that is. After that, the refusal to increase the amounts of support in response to the objections to the results of the last invitation to tenders. Then came the word « fine-tuning», because after all, it was not justified to change a system so recently entered into force. The letters, including the jury, and requests for meetings of multiple companies, were followed with a non-existent response from the guardianship. But now, now that you circulate a sub-signed, that the companies do protest blackouts at the beginning of the shows and that you are marking a street fight action for the next December 10th in Lisbon and Porto, the government declares that it is time to dialogue. Dialogue? Oh, my God! Well, what is really urgent is also to act and solve the problems created. It is necessary for the biennium to strengthen 41 %, approximately EUR 12 million and EUR 886 000, in the amount allocated to the supporters, if we consider the distribution according to the score allocated to all eligible applications. A global allocation for these tenders of around EUR 31 million. And it is not worth fighting and giving again, saying that this scenario was not predictable and that it was the increase in the number of applications that imbalanced the budget balance plate. The alerts were more than many and, more than not, what happened in the previous competition table, whose challenge brought thousands of people to the street in April 2018, should have been taught. There are several questions to be asked. Will the Government now intervene in the resolution of the scenario created by its sole responsibility? Will the Government take the budgetary measures necessary to fulfil the multiannual responsibilities arising from the financing of all applications eligible for the Sustained Support Programme in the biennial mode? Will the Government accept, or will it not, the granting of support for all applications deemed eligible? Will the government reverse the cuts made, particularly in the Alentejo? It is necessary to assume that we need stability and regularity in supporting the arts, ensuring professionalization and combating precariousness. It is urgent to realize that the contests may be the worst of the tools that have been used. We need to debate how to build a system that guarantees the universality of the right to culture throughout the territory. And it is not just to wait for what exists to be a candidate for public support, it is necessary to realize where the people of the country have no response, it is necessary to act so that there may be something, it is necessary to change everything in support of the arts. The CFP reaffirms its usual commitment. It is not just a matter of proposing, the CFP will do everything by its political and institutional action, by supporting and mobilizing the world of culture, to put an end, as soon as possible, to the direction of the current policy. We do not want a larger portion of the cultural crumbs falling from the table of the rich. We want everyone's right to the whole culture throughout the national territory. We want a real public service of culture. We want 1 % of the State budget for culture. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u3	I recall that the public present in the galleries cannot manifest themselves, so I ask you not to do so. In order to clarify Mrs Ana Mesquita, Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Mesquita, the former Government has promised the standardization and stability of DGARTES ( Directorate-General of the Arts), but what we have today are hundreds of artists — who we congratulate and show our solidarity — to challenge the results of the sustained competitions for two years 2020 - 2021 and to request the resignation of Mrs Minister. More than 800 entities claim to increase the funds available for these tenders, which point to a reduced budget allocation in relation to the size of the sector and which warn that the lack of support can cause irreparable damage to the country's artistic fabric. Madam Minister, unfortunately, this is not the first time that this is happening, which well shows the inability of the socialist governments to fulfill their promises. The CFP has denounced that the budget for culture is clearly insufficient and that it calls into question the fulfilment of the right to constitutionally consecrated artistic creation. But the gentlemen. PCP Members approved the four State budgets submitted by the previous Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u5	It was not one, it was not two, nor were there three, that were four budgets that were not consensual, with which the honourable Members. Members complained and continue to complain. [[PSD applause.]] To this, Mr. Members of the CFP, there is a lack of responsibility, lack of seriousness and a clear subservience to the PS, which cost you very much in the last elections. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Ana Mesquita, the current government is 15 days away from presenting the State budget for 2020. I ask you, Madam Member : will the CFP, at least this time, be consistent with what it says and vote against the State budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u6	He's not going! He's not going!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u7	Or will the PCP vote in favour of the Budget, even if it does not prove capable of responding to the needs of artistic creation at DGARTES level? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u8	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only in the last State budget, in order not to go any further, we proposed strengthening DGARTES' words. How did you vote your party? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u10	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u11	Your vote in favour of the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u12	In the Budget, you can see it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u13	Only in the last State budget, we proposed 1% of it for culture. How did you vote your party? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u14	That's right! Say, Mrs Fernanda Velez!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u15	I would also like to remind you that at the last plenary session of the past Parliament a draft resolution of the CFP was voted on, which provided for the declaration of the 1 % target of the State budget for culture as a fundamental goal to be assumed by the Assembly. And, imagine, what did your party do? Oh, my God! Rocambolisically, he voted in a way and then, to amend his hand, he came to correct the vote, falling into ridicule and suggesting that, in fact, that move you is not the interest in defending the rights of culture or a serious fight in defense of 1% of the Budget for culture. [[Protests by PSD Members Fernanda Velez and Paulo Neves.]] Surely we will be here in the fight, with whom we are here every day, presenting proposals and intervening.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u16	And how will the State Budget vote? Don't you answer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u17	We will then see how the PSD will vote for them, but we normally already know: it is against. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u18	This is a serious matter, to deal with seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u19	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Government, Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has developed and continues to develop a culture strategy, not only guided by the significant strengthening of investment in this area, but also by a simplification of procedures that have resulted in a reduction in the complexity and administrative burden on entities. And if there is any area where these aspects are evidenced is in support of the arts. Between 2015 and 2019, support for the arts grew by 83 %, reaching this year the 25 million, a patamar which was also claimed, since 2017, by the representative structures in the context of the review of the model of support for the arts, in 2017 - 2018, as well as by the parties, and which was approved in this Assembly, in the previous Parliament, in the framework of the State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about more than EUR 50 million in the 2018 – 2021 quadrennial support, nearly EUR 16 million in the 2018 – 2019 biennial support, and more than EUR 18 million in the 2020 – 2021 biennial support. These amounts increase in annual support to projects and in partnership plus EUR 16 million since 2018. This means a total of EUR 100 million for art support since 2018, of which EUR 84 million is for sustained support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By focusing specifically on the support tender for the biennium 2020 - 2021, now in conclusion, the amount of support increased by 17 % compared to the previous biennial tender, reaching an overall amount of EUR 18, 7 million. The invitation to tender now concluded will support 102 structures in a universe of 177, which means a rate of 60 % of supported applications. On average, the structures receive more than 16 % financial support than in the previous tender, with an overall average support of €183 000 per structure. On the other hand, for the first time in many years—and I don't even know if it ever happened—the contests opened in 1. the quarter of the year before the start of the support. This represents six months of anticipation of the opening, which allowed the results to be disclosed earlier and that the contractualization of the support occurs for the first time in the year prior to that to which they relate. at present, the contractualization of support for the biennium 2020 - 2021 with various entities is under way. To all these positive aspects, it adds a greater territorial scope, since in all regions, with the exception of Alentejo, there was a very significant increase in the financial support received. It is also worth noting, because it is very relevant and we cannot forget it in this debate, that 38 of the structures supported in this competition had no previous support and 22 of them did not even have any history of relations with the Directorate-General for Arts in the field of competitions. In fact, there was a significant increase in applications and support amounts requested in this invitation to tender and the number of applications submitted increased 32 % in response to the previous invitation to tender. On the other hand — and this is very relevant — these entities have applied for higher amounts than in the past, with an average increase of 22 % in the demand for financial support for each structure. These are great signs for the country and which show a growing sector, renewing itself, attracting new talent and also growing in ambition and dynamism. In summary, this competition represents an increase in financial support for artistic structures throughout the country, a slight increase in the number of supported entities and an increase in the average values received by these entities. However, it is also necessary to understand that this growth and rejuvenation of the sector pose new challenges to us all, not only to the government, but to the sector itself, to local power and civil society. on the part of the government, the challenges are well identified and we understand that the results reveal the need to work at two times. First, by taking appropriate measures to resolve some specific situations in the short term. Second, during 2020, by improving the model of support for the arts, introducing some refinements that meet the challenges that this biennial competition poses to us. We know what needs to be done and we are going to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u21	Mrs Minister, you have signed up to ask for clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, I was informed that the Minister intends to answer together the first seven questions, one of each parliamentary group, and then the other four. Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u22	Mr President, the Minister, in her speech, did not mention the need to solve urgent problems, but spoke only about giving a short-term response to some specific situations. We would then like to see what concrete situations and what criteria. The Minister did not respond and finally did not say anything about closing doors, amputating activity, which is already planned by several companies. Therefore, what is imperative is now to resolve the situation of whom it has been excluded. That is why, Mrs Minister, I raise a few questions that I have already asked, which are clear and which are of extremely simple answer: will the Government intervene from now on in the resolution of the scenario created by its own responsibility? Will you take the budgetary measures necessary to fulfil the multiannual responsibilities arising from the financing of all applications eligible for the biennial programme? Will you or will you not grant support to all eligible applications? Will you or will you not reverse the cuts that have been made, particularly in the Alentejo region? It will or will not eventually end with this model of support for the arts, which is clear and blatantly unjust,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u24	... does not respond to the cultural development needs of the country and does not respond to the constitutional design of the right to creation? Will you or will you not change everything in the model of public support for the arts? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u25	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the results of the Biennial Competition of the Directorate-General for Arts, announced on 11 October, left 40 % of the applications considered eligible, and the situation of the theatre support was more dramatic, in which 60 % of the eligible applications were not financed. This problem was predictable and avoidable, had the Minister taken into account the notices of the competition jury that warned about the inadequacy and inadequacy of the overall amount available. The results were immediately contested by the artists, who mobilized in various actions of protest and denunciation. It is not a question of asking the Government to be supportive and of distributing handcuffs to finance a public service for all. You don't get a cultural policy from migalhas!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u28	The policy of supporting the arts in which the Socialist Party persists is a humiliation for the artists and the artists, a humiliation for those who are young and cannot access funding for their first projects and a humiliation for those who have careers of 20, 30 or 40 years and has been evaluated by those who have never accompanied them. This system of support for the arts maintains a bureaucratic chaos to try to disguise a fundamental political problem: the lack of funding and the lack of multiannual guarantees. The consequences are known and have even said the end of some of the most relevant artistic projects in the country. Do we have more artistic production? No, we don't. Therefore, the minimum required immediately is that all eligible applications be supported. Is that what you're going to do, Minister? What measures will it implement in order to correct the chronic underfinancing of art support? In his speech, he said he was going to implement several measures to correct these problems, but he did not tell us which and we liked to know. How do you explain the delay in publishing the results of the Sustained Support Program contests? The Minister did not meet the deadlines she had given to the structures for indicating the answers and we would like to know why. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u29	For clarifications, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, on 22 November, all parliamentary groups received a communication from the Blind Group of Theatre, which works, as you know, at the Ildefonso Valério Theatre in Vila Franca de Xira. This group told us that it presented an eligible application, classified with the score of 79 percentage points, plus 15 more than in the candidacy of the previous biennium. However, the allocation provided by DGARTES through this competition went to zero, which led to the announced decision to close this theatre, which has an important role in its region. We were also told in this position that, by contacting these results still provisional and because the country was at a time when the Government had not yet taken up new duties, the company drafted a communication to the Prime Minister and then sent it to the office of the Minister, requesting on 12 November a meeting which has not so far happened. To begin with, I wonder whether the Minister, by any chance, has already had the opportunity to meet with this entity and, if she has not, whether she is considering mobilising herself, because it has already reached parliamentary groups, social communication and public opinion in general the news of the closure of this company. Doesn't that make you receive this entity? On the other hand, we also learned this week that 45 artistic structures and 300 professionals are running on social networks a below-signed to ask for their resignation on the basis of some things that seem particularly serious to me. They say that the disastrous result of the competitions well shows the problem of underfinancing the arts and, I underline, the errors of the current model of the DGARTES contest. They say that the absence of a response from the Minister of Culture to letters, requests for meetings, requests for solutions shows a lack of respect for the entities of the sector that protect them. They say that the delay in disclosure of the results has been deliberated, taking into account the electoral period. They say that the Minister does not, therefore, have the conditions to continue to exercise her position, since this phrase is very important — she does not show an ability to listen or to engage in dialogue with the professionals in the area that she protects. Now, in April this year, the Minister gave an interview in which she said the following: « What I feel, and this is only empirical, but the Director-General also feels it, is that we have succeeded in gradually reconnecting with the structures and artists». He also said: « Money is always spoken, and money is important, but there is one thing that is almost as important as that, that is to be able to establish a relationship of trust in which people feel they are heard». Mrs. Minister, I would say that with these two examples, people are not feeling that they are being heard. They're not feeling and they're not really! How does the Minister reconcile this feeling shared by the Director-General with the reality that we are confronted with and that is going to the point of requesting your resignation? Do you still feel that you are connected to the entities of the sector, Minister? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u31	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Carla Borges, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, this is a debate that needs to be debated and, therefore, it cannot become a diversion of the parties sitting on the left, subject to the political propaganda of the one who was, and who now wants to make the Portuguese believe that it is no longer the government of management. It was this government that approved the model of support for the arts, introducing new evaluation criteria in a hurry and slightly without any weighting. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] These criteria were ineffective and caused the government's propaganda to fall to the ground for great financial support for the arts. It is enough to shake the flags of a larger financial package when there are associations to be penalized. This model, Minister, is a fallacy, is a failure. I give you an example: the ACERT, the Cultural and Recreational Association of Tondela, the mother of great artistic machines and projects such as The Elephant's Journey, that boasts Saramago, The Little Great Pole or the « Burn of Judas », the largest project at the national level of collective participation, with 200 volunteers. Despite all this, Mrs. Minister, the ACERT has had a reduction in the value of financial support. Question : What was the reason? Is it because you're from the inside? Is it because you have intergenerational cultural projects, with a strong slope for public service? After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for ACERT the devil came, but he came dressed in lamb's skin, like the wolf in the nightfall. to the government it doesn't matter whether these cuts require a reduction of the cultural program, leading often to the death of important projects. For PSD, it is time to make serious commitments. It is time to recognize the work of cultural associations located within the country and its important role in the development of low density territories. It is time to dignify the past and not compromise the future. Mr Minister, you have mentioned — and you have also mentioned several times here — that it is necessary to make a critical review of the current model of support for the arts. So I ask you: will this critical review correct the Government's gross error in defining the current model? Will the Government undertake to introduce criteria for positive discrimination for indoor projects? Will you value the projects that are also recognized by the authorities? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u33	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Aragão has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u34	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, culture, more than an essential good, is a clear indicator of the development of a country, but without materializing it, this is a common place that anyone could give you. And materializing it is to be factual. First of all, I recall that this is the party, and this is the government, which in the last legislature increased the support for the arts by 83 % from EUR 13, EUR 7 million in 2015 to EUR 25 million in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Mariana Mortágua and the Member of the PCP Ana Mesquita.]] Secondly, I remember that this is the party and this is the government that, together with the parties on the left, approved by 2019 these EUR 25 million, a value why many of the entities in the sector and many artists, as all will certainly remember. Thirdly, I recall that this is the party and this is the Government which, between the last Sustained Support Programme and 2020 - 2021, increased by 17 % the value of the tender by almost EUR 16 million to EUR 18, EUR 6 million. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] It is important, in fact, to know where we are going, but it is also important to understand where we want to go. And we know that this is the party and this is the government that undertakes to reach 2 % of the discretionary expenditure in culture until the end of the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and PCP protests.]] This is the party — it's the only party! — which commits itself to the effort of up to 2030 to 2 % of GDP in culture. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u35	You have to explain that better!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u36	I strongly advise you, without exception, to consult the electoral programmes of all the parties of this House! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who speak very much today do not commit to either 1 % or 2 % or zero! Don't compromise with anything, remembering a gentleman of another time. Don't compromise is the only way you're never wrong! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] in this area, as in others, we remain firm in our Agenda for the Decade. This is the way! Mrs Ana Mesquita, neither skips, nor circumstantial sprints. We must continue our work to make the culture and support of the arts a reality that is increasingly concentrated on concrete support, concrete values and concrete models. Mr Minister, in this register of availability for the improvement of models and financing mechanisms, I ask you clearly: what does your Ministry, in the short and medium term, expect to materialize this support for the arts and respond to the demands of a sector that we have always found fundamental? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u37	I would like to congratulate all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, by continuing to work, I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Parliamentary Group to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, culture is, for the Greens, a sector that undeniably contributes to the critical and creative sense of citizens, being able to contribute, such as education, to the integral formation of individuals and to generate greater awareness and satisfaction, in the fullness of their diverse interests. It is, of course, an important aspect of democracy. However, it remains an area in which successive governments only make promises and adopt gallant speeches. They may even "fill their mouths" with professions of faith on the importance of culture, but in practice they contradict these verbal statements. After the PSD/CDS disaster government, we are also far from the change in direction that would be required in culture. As in other areas, we watch the constant lack of investment and disrespect for all those who live from and for the creation of art. The Greens defend the investment of 1 % of the State budget in culture and, to this end, the programming of a trajectory with a view to achieving that objective in the short term. The State cannot take responsibility for the guarantee of an effective policy for culture. The publication of the results of the DGARTES competitions for the next two years has again given reason to the concerns of show professionals and creation structures regarding the art support model. This model does not entail stability for the sector as a whole and excludes production and creation structures and companies. The contest to support the arts is transformed into a lifeline for one and a death sentence for others. Work in this area, at the cost of a lot of effort and a lot of precariousness, is still being ignored by this government. The cultural heritage of so many institutions is forgotten, and this does not prevent the loss of support, which, even if not necessary, allow for continuing projects, guaranteeing employment to many cultural agents. After the episodes of the previous competition, which forced the closure of historical projects, such as theatre companies, and after, at the initiative of the Greens and the CFP, a strengthening of funds for the sector was possible, a significant increase of funds was expected, in this competition to support the arts, to ensure the stability of the companies and to support new structures. Without the guarantee of financing the arts, which has been the black mark of successive governments, the responsibility of the State to guarantee all access to culture is at stake. The results are once again catastrophic — and the expression is not mine — of those who live, breathe and defend the sector every day — for the survival of artistic structures in all areas. About 60 % of applications with a score to be eligible for support may not receive any public funding and all the support requested is not allocated to any structure. The reduction of support also accentuates the penalization of those who live or choose to live inside, who are deprived of all public services, including access to culture or the right to cultural creation. Well they can put the State Secretary of the Valorization of the Interior in Bragança, if later, in concrete policies, they continue to create difficulties and withdraw support from Tres-os-Montes and Alentejo, channeling the parks support that exist for the structures of the major centers. It is necessary to support art, artists and culture, it is necessary to take art to all and take out the precarious thousands of workers of culture. Therefore, the Minister in the State Budget for 2019, at the Greens' initiative, was assured an increase of EUR 1 million and EUR 200 thousand of the value for the projects of the Directorate-General for Arts. Is the government available to commit to strengthening the DGARTES budget? And if not included in the initial proposal of the State Budget, can the Greens have your support for an amendment proposal for its inclusion?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u40	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Culture, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions. I will try to organize them for large areas, to save time for answers to other questions. Starting with the question of delays, I ask Mrs Ana Mesquita: what delays? The delay we may eventually talk about is, in fact, quite emblematic of what we are discussing, because it is a month.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u42	The government said it was until the end of September!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u43	I recall that, in the last two-year competition, the structures knew the results in June of the year in which support was already in progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u44	Is that the justification? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u45	For the first time, in many years — I repeat, I do not even know if it ever happened before — the competitions opened in the first quarter of the previous year and the structures will have contracts made before the start of the biennial support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u46	The Minister spoke in September!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u47	So I refuse to speak late when this never happened in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u48	The government spoke in September!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u49	Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, from the Left Block, this is not about crumbs. I think, in fact, it's a bit insulting to talk about crumbs. A year ago, at the initiative of several parties and also at the request of several platforms, the EUR 25 million was requested to support the arts. And so there were EUR 25 million in support of the arts, which is the budget allocation, according to what was requested, and well, one year ago, by parties and structures, restating the 2009 values. Here arrived with EUR 25 million and six months in advance, it is necessary, according to the CFP accounts, more than EUR 13 million. Now, once and for all, we must actually agree on what we want for the future. What measures will the government implement? I have always said, and I continue to say, that, throughout the review process, one of the structural principles that all entities and parties have defended is that the competition is the only way to ensure transparency, fairness...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u50	All parties, but not ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u51	... and respect for the model of support for the arts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u52	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u53	This was something that went through all the documents in support of the arts. Therefore, being a contest, as it has always been, there will be entities that are inside and entities that are outside. This is the case in any competition in any area of public policy. In education, housing, science, all areas, there are competitions and, with competitions, some entities are financed and other entities are not funded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u54	What if the schools were the contest and they were out?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u55	That is the question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u56	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u57	In fact, what I have always said and continue to say is that now, yes, the competition has been closed and is being concluded, it is time to talk to the representative structures and entities. And I say this for one reason, Mrs Deputies: on my part, the concept of 'external and independent jury' will always be respected. As long as the work of the jury and the entities takes place, it is not the time of the Minister of Culture to speak with the jury or with the entities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, this could be synonymous with attempts by the Minister of Culture to condition it and then the PCP would come to accuse the government of interference and interference in the work of the jury of the external competition. That, Mrs Deputy, I did not even do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Carla Borges of the PSD, and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS, I don't really like to talk about the past because in fact several governments have already passed by. But there is one important point: there was a government that, in four years, cut 35 % of support for culture and we, in four years, rejected 40 % of support for culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, Mrs Deputies : I cannot understand the case you referred to from the ACERT, which is, in fact, an entity that has received an amount of €970 000 in the framework of four-year support, and has not even presented the biennial invitation to tender. Tondela and Viseu were of the regions that had the most support under the four-year competition. I therefore confess that I cannot understand the matter, because at the moment it is not related to ACERT, as well as to other entities. In order to finish this round, I would like to mention one last question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, the review of the art support model in 2017 involved many entities and structures, and it is important that we address this issue. The government defends, and I will continue to defend, the principle of the competition, because there is something in which it defends us all, starting with the artistic structures: it is that never a government, whatever the ideological sector where it is located, will interfere and say that the company The receives and the company B does not receive. This is the principle of the competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u58	Aren't you? Oh, my God! Aren't you? Oh, my God! What does the Cultural Development Fund serve for?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u59	Therefore, on our part, the competition will remain-CL. The question is whether the CFP defends the end of the competition in support of the arts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u60	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : Seiva Trupe, the Cape Teatro, Esquiva Companhia de Dança, Orchestra da Costa Atlantique, Astro Figido, Teatro Palmilla Dentada, Filandorra - Teatro do Nordeste, Artists de Gaia - Cultural Cooperative, Fundação Biennial de Cerveira, Varazim Teatro, among many other companies and structures in the district of Porto and the Northern Region of the country, are today confronted with various uncertainties and anxieties because, although with eligible applications, they did not have any kind of support in the two years 2020 - 2021. The PCP met, soon after these results, with a large set of structures, in the district of Porto, confirming, at this meeting, that these results would seriously affect the functioning of the structures and ongoing projects, and there were cases in which it was even considered to drop the final cloth and completely close the activity. I'm back that time, nothing's changed. They are companies and structures with different times of life, some younger ones, others with decades of activity, but with work developed and recognized at national and international level. This means the impoverishment of culture in the north of the country, the atropelo of constitutional right to cultural creation and also of cultural exploitation by the peoples of this region. Behind each of these structures, Mrs. Minister, are many cultural workers and their families, with future questions, are years of dedication and dedication to cultural creation, which are completely ignored and which can be wasted. There may be those who can continue to create and produce with deep sacrifices, stretching a broken and short blanket, but others will not have the conditions to continue and close doors. Mr. Minister, what is the answer you have to give to these companies and structures? Will the government assume its responsibility and its role, ensuring the support that these structures need to continue their activity? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u62	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Block of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Minister for Culture, the Constitution guarantees to everyone the right to education and culture. Like education, culture is a public service, so the State should promote its democratization, ensuring access to all populations. It is for the State to promote access to culture throughout the territory, access to the plurality of aesthetic and artistic languages, the possibility of choosing all citizens and all citizens. in this sense, this constitutional law is only realized through public funding and support. In the last competition to support the arts, there was a large proportion of entities considered eligible that had not been financed. In addition, there is a structural problem in the coverage of the territory, both in 2018 and now in 2019, since there were districts that were left without structures of creation supported in the different artistic areas. Let us take as one of the examples of this situation to the Biennial de Artes de Cerveira, which represents the programming of the oldest biennial of the Iberian Peninsula and Portugal. With its exclusion, only three entities will be funded in the area of visual arts for biennium, those that are located in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. This situation undermines decentralized cultural affirmation and accentuates regional asymmetries.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u65	The theatres and the cinemas, in turn, are fundamental equipment in the democratization of culture and are central elements in the development of the territory, contributing to dilute regional asymmetries and, at the same time, promote the fixing of various artistic expressions and their professionals in a community. The question that we put to the Minister, in the light of the evidence that there are regions in the country that have not been financed structures, which accentuates asymmetries, preventing people from having access to culture, a fundamental right, is to know how the Government intends to correct this imbalance. in the same way, we would like to know how the law will implement to the film network, created in the previous Legislature on the initiative of the Block of Left. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u66	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the results of the biennial competitions of the sustained programme of support for the arts for 2020 - 2021 are a disregard for cultural structures and artists and have proven what the CFP has been saying for a long time: the money is low. These tenders are made precisely because, with little money, the government prefers to close the door to these cultural structures when it should increase the financial allocation and simplify the process. Madam Minister, the particular situation of Alentejo is extremely negative — we can even say that it is a tragedy. Alentejo was the only region in the country with a cut of 8%. With these results, in the district of Évora no theatrical structure will have support from DGARTES over the next two years, and many others, in Beja, Évora and Portalegre, will be without any support. This is more than a problem of artistic discrimination of the Alentejo, it is to want to completely kill artistic creation in the Alentejo, just in a region where the city of Évora, in its candidacy to the European City of Culture, defends culture as a decisive factor in the development of cities and their surroundings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u69	We are talking about a region that faces great difficulties of territorial inequality. Mrs. Minister, where are the principles of territorial cohesion? Where is the fight against regional asymmetries? It is that support and encouragement for cultural and creative fabric is crucial for this fight. We cannot accept that the Government will thus promote and legitimize job insecurity in an absolutely needed sector of left-wing cultural policy. These cultural structures are in a very precarious situation and do not know what their future will be. In fact, it's not just the structures as many artists will be helpless. Mr. Minister, how will the situation of injustice be resolved with the cultural and creative fabric of the Alentejo? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u70	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Culture, the exclusion of applications in the public contest for the support of the arts has proved to be a disaster throughout the country, leaving dozens of structures in hand. Throughout the country, the results of this competition led to the announcement of closure of cultural structures, exacerbating asymmetry in access to culture, and also in the district of Lisbon there are asymmetries in access to culture. Here are two realities, both grave: that of the city of Lisbon, with dozens of excluded structures, of various areas of artistic expression, with years of work recognized by all, and that of the other municipalities of the district, where the presence of these structures often ensures the only cultural response in their forms of artistic expression for populations of hundreds of thousands of people, giving life to cities, which cannot be seen as mere dormitories. That is why it is very serious that structures such as the Teatro dos Aloes, in Amadora, the Teatro Espera, in Queluz, and the Grupo de Teatro Cégada, of the Teatro Ildefonso Valério Studio, in Vila Franca de Xira, have been excluded, which has already announced its closure. These theatre companies were excluded from the competition even though they were classified above 79 % but did not exceed the economic limit outlined by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u73	For more than 20 years, any of these companies have worked very well, culturally and socially, with the population, with the schools, and without such support they may have to close, contributing even more to the removal of the population from access to culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u75	Mrs. Minister, I ask you if you've spoken to these companies. If you haven't spoken, you can take advantage that some are here in the galleries. What answer will you give them? Are you going to have your arms crossed to see them disappear, contributing to the cultural emptying of these cities, with serious consequences in the future? What urgent measures will you take to prevent the closure of these companies in the district of Lisbon? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u76	You have the floor, also to ask for clarifications, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, on the peninsula of Setúbal, although they have been considered eligible for the award of support in the context of the competition, four structures have not been supported : the Teatro de Animation de Setúbal, the Companhia Mascarenhas Martins, the Spaço Cultural Cooperative das Aguncheiras, Fiar — Associação Culturale. In fact, for these structures, this means increased difficulties in maintaining its activity and in creating it. When our Constitution states that the Government has the responsibility to encourage and ensure the access of all citizens to the means and instruments of cultural action, as well as to correct the asymmetries existing in the country, which means that more inequalities will be created, which should be the support of the Government to encourage the creation, decentralisation and access of the people to culture, is called into question by the fact that these companies and these structures have been left without support by the Government. Mr Minister, I give you a very concrete example of the Fiar, a structure with which we had a conversation yesterday which mentioned the extreme difficulties in which you find yourself in carrying out your activity and that the support by the Government has been intermittent. However, they have done extraordinary work with that community and with a set of other traditional cultural groups, and that, yes, marks the importance of the development of this activity, not only of this structure but of all, and not only in the encouragement of creation but in fact for true democratization. And what is required, Mrs. Minister, are answers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u79	... immediate responses to these structures that are present here and fighting for the right to culture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u80	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of the PS Member Mara Rabbit.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u81	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. today, once again, during this debate, we realize that there is only one party with an objective, consistent, transversal and democratic vision to continue a true public policy of culture and support for the arts. This party is the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] If there is a sector in which the PS can take pride in the word given to be an honest word is in culture. We had to rebuild a sector that had been dismantled on the right. We created a working group with industry agents to review this model and we solved and simplified the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u82	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u83	It is ironic to hear here today about delays, when this is the first year in which the competition for the next biennium opened in the first quarter of the previous year, which represents an anticipation of the timetable in the order of the nine months, which, for the sector makes all the difference. This is a public contest taken by an independent jury that assesses the merit of each application without interference from the guardianship, thus ensuring the transparency and credibility of the process, which follows a clear, publicized and non-discretionary model. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Members, for us, culture is part of the development of a territory. We created and implemented the Programme of Cultural Action ( ProAC ), thus allowing to internationalize Portuguese culture and language,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u84	... giving our artists an opportunity to internationalize their works. We have created, and is already on the ground, the Culture for All programme, giving culture transversality in the territories as an engine for combating exclusion and cohesion and integration tool. And also in this competition — it is good to say — the allocation of support to at least one entity per region has been guaranteed, resulting in an increase of more than 60 %. No territory was excluded and that was the minimum guarantee. Madam Minister, what I would like to ask you, at this point, is what the Government, for the future, has planned to continue on this path of good art support and cultural support throughout the country, at the level of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u85	In reply, Mrs. Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of the various questions that have been put to me, perhaps two lines of answers are highlighted. On the one hand, the question of territorial cohesion, which has been put here. from the point of view of the balance sheet of this competition, there are two regions of the country, which are the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and the Algarve region, which has an increase of 60 % of the financing compared to the previous two years; the North has an increase of 20 % compared to the previous one; the Centre has an increase of 27 % compared to the previous one; the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon has an increase of 10 % compared to the previous one. In fact, Alentejo has a decrease, and I have also faced a challenge as an example of having to have a solution, which we will certainly have by 2020. On the issue of the priority of support for the arts, I also want to make it clear that over the course of four years, as I said — and I do not want to talk much about the past but say what we are going to do for the future — it was possible to increase support for the arts by 83 %. This competition, I insist, has an increase of 17 % vis-à-vis the previous one. The priority of the government and what is in our Government Programme is 2 %, throughout the legislature, in support of culture, and it is exactly on this path that we will continue, the path of territorial cohesion, the path of increased investment — and, you see, I do not speak in expenditure but in investment in culture —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u88	... the increase in the possibility of increasingly having a network of support for artistic structures which throughout the country have developed a very important work and which, up to this day, have done extraordinary work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this support network must also benefit from the support in partnership with the municipalities, with the areas of the CCDRs, with the possibilities that the Community programme gives us at the moment. That is to say, what I have always said, and I repeat here, is this: in 2020 we will have solutions for concrete cases and for the future of support for the arts. What we cannot be constantly questioning everything that has been done in recent years, because the structures themselves cannot be able to permanently adapt to a new model of support for the arts which is constantly changed every year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must maintain the model, continue the growth path and believe that we can support all structures throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u89	We are now in the process of intervention. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u90	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, during this debate, the Minister has come to understand and has been forwarding, in her speeches, that is all right, which is a rather scary idea for us, that we have identified problems, because it means that the Minister is probably not going to solve them. Mrs. Minister, I want to start by telling you a story, which is the story of Inês Pereira. Inês Pereira, an actress in 2018, in delivering the award for the best theatre show, read for the audience attending the annual gala of the Portuguese Society of Authors, a communiqué on the delays of the Directorate-General of Arts, which I quote : « We continue in 2017, the same misery situation that has settled in the previous quadriennial and we know nothing about 2018, 2019, unless we have no dues for now ». And he continued the communiqué, concluding that « most of us will spend the year 2018 without work, without knowing whether future productions for which we were summoned will be kept in constant late wages or very low wages ». The situation described by Inês Pereira little or nothing differs from the uncertainty situation experienced by many artists in 2019 who work in companies that have not been financed, although they have been considered eligible. The financing of artistic production is decisive for the cultural life of the country, allows us to produce the works of art with which we learn about the world, which remain in memory and help us build what we are. The system that the Government imposed on the financing of culture has completely and cross-cuttingly failed, further weakening the artistic sector. He left a structural problem in the support of the arts, which he does not begin, which goes through chronic underfinancing and the precariousness required of the artistic bodies, who began to pay less and lay off more to fulfill what is required of them. To understand how we got here, it's important to go back a little and remember the trails. At the end of 2016, the former Government suspended the new multi-year support cycle for one year with the argument that it would implement a new, less rigid, pond and repetitive model. This new paradigm would be the opposite of the model implemented by the PSD/CDS government, which, quoting the former Secretary of State of Culture, repeatedly fails, at the start, its relationship of listening and permanent analysis of reality. The sector, the entities, the projects are very different from each other and bring different challenges and needs, which lack adjusted answers. It happened 2017 and nothing. On the other hand, quadrennial contests to support the arts are launched in 2018 and far away from the paradigm presented by the Ministry, with more bureaucracy, demands of information and budgetary forecasts inapplicable to the activity of many structures that build the candidatures without any follow-up from the Directorate-General of the Arts. The first results of the art support left Coimbra and Évora without professional structures and Porto lost two structuring festivals for the city. Several other structures were unexplainedly unfunded, since then the Cascais Experimental Theatre, as well as the Port Theatre. By public pressure, by the intransigent struggle of artists, representative associations of the sector and unions, some of the errors were corrected. The new model failed in 2018 with quadriennial support and, even after corrections, also failed in 2019 with biennial support. DGARTES is unable to meet the deadlines it sets for itself. In April 2019, the Government guarantees that the results would be known in July. In September, I assure you again that they would be known in the first fortnight of that month. But only after the legislative elections were published the results that had already been decided by the jury on 27 August.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u91	Really! Is that what you're
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u92	For hundreds of companies, these delays mean programming without knowing whether they will be financed; it means not renewing contracts and keeping employees in suspense; it means often indebted personally so that they can continue to have a creation horizon. The publication of the results repeated the problem of previous years: insufficient budget allocation for the number of eligible applications and of high artistic relevance. Once again, the budget allocation does not correspond to the expectations created by the Government on the importance of cultural policies for the development of the country and prevents a part of the country from having access to regular, persistent and unique work that has been done with populations and territories in all regions. A country that gives up culture, artistic creation, building its narratives is not a country. That is why the defense of culture, of public policies for culture, is not a thing of a handful of people or of a particular sector, it is of everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u93	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u94	It is urgent that, once and for all, a true model of support for the arts, fair and integrated into a cultural policy aimed at guaranteeing the rights of use and cultural creation throughout the territory, as it is also imperative to end the instability and precariousness of the sector that these results are aggravated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u95	Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr President on his birthday. The cultural policy of this government has completely and cross-cuttingly failed. The government has failed with the cultural agents, failed with the regions, failed with the public, failed with the Portuguese and failed with itself. The government is lost in a vision for the country's cultural policy, surrounded by bureaucracy, forms and objectives that leave no room for the creativity of cultural agents. All added, nor will the national salvation government of the years of the troika have generated so much and so unanimous challenge by the culture sector. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u97	Where are the Socialist Party's promises of 1% of GDP (gross domestic product) for culture, which then became 1% of the State budget and later became 1% of State budget expenditure?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u98	Don't yank!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u99	And now we don't know what it is, since the Government Programme, on the subject of culture, is kind of a blank page. It speaks vaguely to us in the cultural economy, and in terms of supporting the arts, it is the known misery. However, they consider real artists agents of change. This is the government's cultural policy, which is solely responsible for not having a public cultural policy for Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, where are the patriotic and left-wing parties that, from megaphone to fist, so much promised, both participated in the management of the country and who even voted in favour of four consecutive budgets? The result of this work and what really remains for culture is no more than 0, 2 tenths of the State budget, that is, little more than zero! It is not enough for Mrs Catarina Martins to pretend to be concerned about cultural agents and to ask her questions to the Prime Minister in her fortnightly debate, as happened this week. But truly regrettable is the cynical position, politically speaking, of the Prime Minister to be surprised at the protests, when he is the first to be responsible for underfunding in the culture sector. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government is responsible for the announced death of reference companies, for the end of international festivals of recognized national and international merit and virtually erased from the cultural map regions such as Alentejo, Tres-os-Montes and the outskirts of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, in an unacceptable way. This financing model represents the slow death of the country's cultural fabric. More than half of the scoring applications for public support will not have access to any amount. Culture also failed to escape the captivitys of Mário Centeno. They are the judges themselves of the arts support contests which, in an uncomfortable way, alert to the insufficiency of the funds. There is currently no public cultural policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u101	There is no long-term plan for investment in culture and this prevents the creation of stable relations with artistic entities, whether public or independent, of the various sectors. There is clearly a public underfinancing of the arts with consequences for the workers of culture who are voted on to precariously. For this reason, Mrs Minister, the Government can well claim more, in an ad hoc way, that the results are in sight and are bad. The government will have to do different, it will have to do everything again, because it will only be able to cover the cultural and creative diversity of the country. The emergence of new, clear, contemporary, informed cultural policies is essential and they maintain, above all, the creative independence of their professionals. A country with culture is, without a doubt, a country that is richer, more open, more creative and, above all, more free. Yes, culture is freedom and when it is attacked and weakened, the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens are also at stake. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if all this is already a disgrace, it is worse when we learn about the government's way here. This government, shamefully, waited for the end of the electoral period to make public the results of the competitions supporting the arts. The delay in disseminating the results of the competition was unacceptable and detrimental to the fundamental principles of the relationship with the State. The Government has called into question transparency, independence and suitability in relations with citizens. It's unacceptable what happened. It was confirmed through the supra that the contest panel had already formal discussions at the end of July, giving an end to its work. Therefore, the waiting compass was intentional and intended not to harm the image of the Government and the Socialist Party on the eve of elections. [[PSD applause.]] I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that this action has, indeed, called into question democracy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u102	Mr President, I thank you for your reference to my birthday. The Bureau took note of Mrs Sara Velez, whom I shall immediately give the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u103	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Carlos Silva, the last PSD/CDS government was responsible for the biggest cut in memory in the culture sector and therefore also in support of the arts. They were responsible for the destructuring of the sector, completely dismantling the work that had been done so far. With regard to the support of the arts, the PSD and CDS have cut nearly half of the value allocated so far. In this regard, it is also good to remember, in order to realize the importance given to the sector, which, whenever government was involved, the PSD and the CDS promoted the ministry to the State Secretariat. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the last year of your Government, the value available for the support of the arts was EUR 13, EUR 7 million. Today, in 2019, it is 25 million, Mr Carlos Silva, i.e. 83 % more. In order to achieve this value, it also contributed to the budgetary strengthening of EUR 1, 2 million, which occurred so that more entities could be supported. But in the vote on this budgetary reinforcement, you abstained. In other words, the PSD either cuts or abstains in support of the arts in Portugal. The new model implemented by the Government of the Socialist Party exceeds, in this legislature, the 2009 stamp, year before the crisis. In the Budget for 2019 it is the area of culture that rises most, in the total of the entire government. In summary, in this last competition we have more funding, more funding, and some of them have never had any support or funding before.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u104	So why do people complain? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u105	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Socialist Party, the support for the arts is a fundamental policy instrument for the valorization of culture and artistic expression in all its dimensions. The question that we leave to the PSD is then the following: the road is going, Mr Deputies, so there are the honourable Members. Members available to follow the efforts of the PS Government so that at the end of this legislature we can reach 2 % of the value of the Culture Budget? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u106	To reply, Mr. Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u107	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Sara Velez for her question and telling her that her question is a dual intellectual dishonesty. [[PS protests.]] A first intellectual dishonesty arises when it compares the national salvation government of the time of the troika with the current government. [[PS protests.]] [[PSD applause.]] We all know that that was a period of financial adjustment, that the country was in bankruptcy and that we had no financial autonomy. The state could not order to buy or create a expense because it had to request permission from the troika... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Do you want to hear it? I know it's hard to hear, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. This was the first intellectual dishonesty. The second relates to the fact that it was not the PSD that caused the country to fall into bankruptcy, but its government, the Government of the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And since it compares governments, then, I will compare elements: you have transformed a State Secretary of Culture into a ministry, but at the end of 2016 you can imagine, in terms of budgeting and investment, the values of the Government of the Socialist Party are lower than those of the previous Government of PSD / CDS. Therefore, this is another intellectual dishonesty that I highlight. [[PS protests.]] On this point, Mrs Deputy, we are talking. But I want to say even more: as for the achievement of the 2% target during this mandate, this is more a promise from the Socialist Party, as many others have done, even in other areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u108	The worst is captivating!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u109	I am waiting to see what the Socialist Party is going to set as an objective in the next State budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u110	For an intervention, Mrs Rosário Gambôa of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u111	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister for Culture, Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Before I begin my speech, I would like to welcome the representatives of the artistic entities who attend this thematic debate in the gallery. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has already been said here, but this is a central issue to which it is important to return, which, in four budgets of the Socialist Party, the budget for culture has grown 38 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Culture has also been the area that grew most in terms of budget allocation throughout our legislature. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u112	I am talking about a continuous, progressive investment and an already registered wish that it will continue to increase. This one, sirs. Members, it is an undeniable empirical fact: the Government of the Socialist Party has restored culture at the heart of public policies, by strengthening investment in cultural institutions and their agents,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... promoting diversity and territorial cohesion and promoting the cultural participation of citizens. And the development and deepening of this process is what moves us in this legislature. It is therefore important when the CFP brings the debate to the Biennial Art Support Competition, to remember, who seems to walk away from reality, other so many facts, demonstrating the truth that they contain. In fact, within the budget of the Ministry of Culture, the overall budget of the Directorate-General for Arts was the one that grew the most, reaching EUR 25 million in 2019. This increase corresponded to a call for a flag of groups, cultural associations and political parties themselves. This funding of EUR 25 million to support the arts, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's here! He's here! It is therefore very strange that they are now talking about a lack of funding. However, this issue of financing has been demagogicly distorted, instrumentalizing the comprehensible discontent of artistic structures. However, to be clear, the support for the arts, in its multiple disciplines, now exceeds the 2009 threshold, i.e. about 18, 5 million, is currently 18, 7 million. An increase of 83 %, as has already been mentioned and well evidenced here, Mr Carlos Silva, when compared with 13, 7 million 2015, showing a complete disinvestment in the part of the culture and above all the errant and totally destructed policy led by the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, investment is not merely a financial matter and it is not just funding that we are dealing with. The Government's programme for supporting the arts lies in a cross-sectional and lively view of culture: a culture conceived- and this is crucial- in relation to the various domains, a culture built and experienced in social interaction, inclusive, involving, where dialogue between the different protagonists defines a way of thinking and being, which is the way to conceive of the Socialist Party. It was in this spirit of dialogue that the model review of support for the arts took place in 2017, which gave rise to the existing decree-law, which introduced, and very well, the territorial devaluation coefficient ; in this same spirit of dialogue, the portaria in 2018, following the proposals of the working group, where municipalities, trade unions and cultural agents were represented, introducing simplification measures and a better weighting of the criteria and evaluation. Dialogue has not failed! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was therefore, on the basis of these criteria and others, previously known by all, that the jury worked independently, evaluating, and, as the jury did and should do, evaluated the serious candidatures. It was not the ministry itself to decide on the secrecy of a cabinet. The competition in question is a new stage in a complex process that needs to be monitored and revisited through adjustments and corrections that its implementation reveals necessary. It is, I repeat, a process, a path that we are traveling together with others, a path that is not finished nor is closed and it is with confidence, Mr Minister, that we hope to go further and better in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, let's go back to the specific financing of the Biennial 2020 / 2021 Art Support contest. Compared to the previous tender, more than 17 % of funding; plus 32 % of applications; plus 48 % of eligible applications; plus 60 % of funded entities; plus 32 % of structures financed for the first time. These, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, these are numbers we should welcome,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... not only because they translate an increase in funding but because there are more applications, new entities, we witness here the vitality, we greet, of the sector. But the value of the amount requested by the companies increased by 78 % and the support given also increased by 16 %. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an invitation to tender and an invitation to tender, according to the merit which the jury has given and has taken up to the limit of the amount allocated. Here, the question which naturally arises is obvious: do you want the CFP, and, of course, also the Block, that funding is not made by competition? The financing they're defending...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u113	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u114	... by proposing the financing of all eligible and non-eligible applications, it can only be the defence of a non-eligible tender. Now, this is a dangerous path, which we don't profile. Dangerous because traced and surrendered to the whim of who decides,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u115	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u116	... by ideological forwarding that can slow down,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u117	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u118	... an incorrect path, because it does not help to structure and qualify the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u119	Wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u120	Mrs. Deputy, I'd appreciate it if you'd finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u121	Mrs. Members, to defend a non-criteria model in democracy is not to give value to democracy. There will never be enough money for those who compete. Of course we have sympathy for the discomfort of companies, but the state has limits for support, it has responsibilities in front of all sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u122	Mrs. Deputy, you've spent a lot of your time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u123	The Socialist Party is a party of responsibility and, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that is certainly why the Portuguese gave him the confidence that he would be ruling. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u124	The honourable Member has a request for clarification from Mr Alexandre Poço, who will use the 23 seconds from which he has two minutes left by the NAP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, we must recognize this government's ability to create controversy. This is particularly serious and has to do with the controversy around the new model of financing for the arts. See: in the area of visual arts, by 2020 - 2021, three cultural entities, all of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, will receive a total of 550 000 euros of support supported by creation; there are five other applications that were considered eligible by the jury, that is, approved for support, but that will not have funding available, which are the target of your captivitys, being the Biennial de Cerveira one of them, the oldest in the country and which last year received 100,000 visitors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u126	That is, while the Government announces greater investment in culture and the need to promote decentralization in the arts, the Directorate-General of Arts, contrary to what has happened, does not attribute any money to the Biennial Foundation of Arts of Vila Nova de Cerveira, thus calling into question its viability and continuity. Mrs Minister, are you aware that a decision such as this undermines territorial cohesion and deepens cultural fractures? The Directorate-General for Arts recognised the merit of this candidacy, however, he cut the funding. The Minister, in fact, does not have that conscience, but the Socialist Party apparently does. So the question that I am asking you is simple: will you stay with the Minister, subscribing to the existence of approved applications, eligible for support, but which do not have funding or will be against the Minister and this usual propaganda of more support for culture, more support for arts, more decentralization, which then, as you see, does not actually happen? This is the path that PS has to choose: one side or the other. They have to be consistent. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u127	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, who has two minutes given by the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want any controversy; you have left the arts in a state of genuine controversy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is very strange that someone who abstained or cut into culture when it was necessary to invest back these questions to me. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Mr President, be calm, do not get too excited, which still takes a long time to finish the debate. Mr President, the jury did the series of applications and, as I have just mentioned, in a tender the award of funding is conditional on the ceiling that exists, according to the series made, and that is what happened. In any case, there is something that Mrs Minister has already said and that anyone who opens the DGARTES website can quickly verify: there are other modalities of support that transcend this competition, i.e. support for the arts is not limited to this type of biennial contests, there are other support, and there will be sure that there will always be availability from the Socialist Party to, in the short, medium and long term and in partnership with other entities, such as the authorities and associations, we are able to support what needs to be supported. But there is one thing I am going to say to you: regional cohesion has been introduced by us in the criteria which preside over the competitions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u129	We have no further entries for the debate, so we will move on to the closing phase. To that end, I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Culture : This timely debate, promoted by an initiative of the CFP, an artistic show and PSD and CDS, which, while in the Government, was evidenced in the cuts and destruction of the cultural fabric and its underfunding, would be here today to represent a role of amnesics, who want to realize that nothing has happened. But the Socialist Party and the government may carry palms by the number of juggling, trying to hide what is wrong and play with numbers. But there are no misleading words. The culture sector in Portugal continues to be the victim of a worrying public underfunding and economic logic that undermines development and often the very survival of the cultural fabric. From the debate there are two unavoidable demands: on the one hand, that of the guarantee, as the Greens defend, of the investment of 1% of the State budget for culture, with a programming of a trajectory with a view to achieving this objective in the very short term, aimed at mobilising thousands of men and women of culture around the 1 % Movement for Culture and now of the platform in defence of culture, which we warmly welcome from here. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS and Mrs. Government members, do not play with numbers, do not want that role of jugglers. 1 % for culture is even for culture, not for RTP or for the operation of the Ministry. 1 % is to deliver to creators, artists, to dynamize the exposures that are needed, to ensure the stability of existing projects and for new projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u132	The second requirement is the immediate guarantee of support for the arts, covering performing arts, visual arts and disciplinary crossings, so that there are no cultural structures that see their action compromised, as we are debating today, because they have lost support or have substantially reduced the support they had. This requirement also has serious implications for the employment and stability of many artists and cultural creators, because it is important not to forget that the sector of culture and arts in particular is also a sector with a significant capacity to generate employment in society, but it must be employment with rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is an urgent need for another way of supporting the arts, a path that ensures freedom and diversity of artistic creation, as well as democratization of the use of arts and access to culture. The Greens defend a new model of support for the arts, which evaluates the applications on the basis of their achievement and not through financial criteria, a model of unburocratized, timed contest in order to allow the projects to be implemented to start with the support effectively provided. The Greens understand that support for the arts and culture in general that includes the defense of cultural heritage, with its preservation and maintenance of intrinsic value, but also for what it represents for our identity as a people must take into account the national objective of combating regional asymmetries, which also goes through the valorization and defense of cultural supply within the country. It is therefore urgent to stop the devaluation of Portuguese art and artists if this government does not want to continue to be responsible for another legislature to destroy the social structure of the arts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u133	For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : This debate has proven the intention of the Ministry of Culture to make new refinements in the biennial support competition supported by the creation of DGArts. Another refinement, a review, a supposed improvement, always for the future, because, in the present, there is challenge, expectations, reports of lack of funding. Maybe it's good to remember how the PS government brought us here. In 2016, Secretary of State Miguel Honrado states that he wants to develop with the sector a new model of support for the arts. In 2017, there is no competition, as it should have been after the fiscal year 2015 / 2016, because it will be a year of transition, and the Ministry of Culture hires the ISCTE-University Institute of Lisbon to conduct an investigation to listen to the agents of the sector. In 2017, the Secretary of State states that the review of the current model of art support is a government priority and an enormous opportunity. The new model is published and therefore the REDE platform (Association of Structures for Contemporary Dance), representing 32 structures, states that, and I quote, « this does not correct the above in key aspects, is not supported in a clear cultural policy, revealing itself technically inadequate to ensure a fair and correct allocation of support ». In March 2018, the results of the competitions and companies with a solid and recognized history are suddenly without support. Hundreds of actors sign an open letter on delays in DGArtes, regretting that in 2017 nothing has changed, despite promises and proclamations. The Prime Minister then announced a first mini-rectification, with an increase of 15 to 16, 5 million euros in the appropriation already in that year, and DGArtes is accompanied by €500 000. At the beginning of April, 50 theatre structures and 140 artists send a letter to the Prime Minister, saying that « the system that this government imposed on culture has failed completely and cross-sectionally, further weakening the artistic sector ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u135	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u136	Faced with the escalation of reactions, the guardian admits that there are failures and once again manifests availability to fill them. As the challenge still does not stop, António Costa announces a second rectification, now of 2, 2 million euros. In June, a working group is created to study another model. In October, the Minister is replaced and, in November, the new Minister, Graça Fonseca, explains that he will put in public discussion the model of support for the arts. It is true that for the first time in March 2019, they open the biennial contests, something that the Minister announces with great acclaim. It is, in fact, a positive fact, but only in the last year of the legislature, by coincidence a year of election. But even if they have moved forward, the truth is that the problem is not over. In July, in a letter to the Minister of Culture, the jury of the theatre contest stressed the inability to respond to more than half of the candidatures it considered eligible and said: "We have come to appeal to your sensitivity, Mrs. Minister, and understanding, so that a solution can be found that saves the candidates' expectations". However, a new statement by the jury on 15 November found that « the concerns expressed in July and now renewed had no answer». The provisional results of the competitions for the two years 2020 / 2021 were released on 11 October and, as has already been said, left without support 75 of the 177 eligible candidatures. There are 45 artistic structures and 300 professionals in the sector who then begin the movement to request the resignation of Mr.Minister. In short, in four years of socialist government we had three ministers, five directors-general of the arts, four budgets with two mini-rectifications, one survey, one working group and only two constants: the challenge and promise that next time it will be. For structures, promises do not pay the debts incurred to keep doors and stages open. As the Minister herself said in April, « it is not possible for any structure, as would not be possible for any company, to program whatever these conditions are ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u137	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u138	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, to the PS, but also to the CFP, which, by approving the four budgets of these four years, welcomes this debate, what we have to say is the following: the previous government has repeatedly failed. We will see very soon in the next State budget, where that other 1% flag for culture will remain. Most likely there are many scenes, but never enough to be on stage. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u139	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP brought to this debate the examples resulting from the contacts we have been making throughout the country with the structures that had to wait until the fifth day after the elections to know that they would again be deformed by those who have an obligation to respect. We have tried to do this debate in a serious way, not only dealing with the solutions that need to be found for the situation that is created, but also with the basic solutions to solve this problem once and for all. This is not a debate on blessings or privileges, such as capital injections into the New Bank or tax bills such as those that were decided yesterday by the Council of Ministers for four major economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u141	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u142	This is a debate on the right to create and make cultural use which, being a citizen's right, is the responsibility of the State and a responsibility assumed through these structures of artistic creation, to which the Government has an obligation to guarantee funding to carry out its work. Without this responsibility of the State, without this financing by the Government, artistic and cultural creation will be resonated with market logics, where entertainment products are bought and sold, but where citizens are not aware of the reality around them and the need to intervene about it. A developed society requires people and human beings capable of reflecting critically on the world around them and acting on it to transform it. A developed society requires an artistic and cultural fabric in a position to assume its role and to make its decisive contribution to these objectives. The lack of support for artistic and cultural fabric to fulfill this role is paid with obscurantism, ignorance, inequalities and social and democratic retrogression.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u144	If we start from these criteria to evaluate the situation we have, we find that things are all at risk. When artistic creation structures waste time, which should be of creation, of art and of culture, to focus on the fight against bureaucracy and its own economic survival, things are obviously to birds. The situation that is being created requires immediate measures and also requires substantive measures. The immediate measures are clear and now, for more than once, we have repeated them here, and I fear - they are also included in the initiative that we have put forward, right at the beginning of this Parliament - to ensure funding for all structures that have been classified as 'eligible' and to review the situation of those who have remained 'uneligible' in order to prevent them from having to close doors. And the basic measures, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also not difficult to guess: to review the model of support for the arts and, once and for all, to assume that the responsibilities of the State can be fulfilled without the use of the support distribution contest, as is the case with schools, health centres or other public services, Mrs Rosário Gambôa of the PS. If schools and health centres do not also dispute funding between themselves, do not participate in competitions to be financed, why should the public service of culture not be assumed with the same dignity and with the same method as other public services? [[PCP applause.]] Some statements that have been made here today during the debate have already been rejected by the very information that the structures have brought to us, in particular those that have to do with the political interference that has occurred throughout the process of these competitions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members and, in particular, Mr. Members of the Government and the Minister of Culture, you do not question when you have, for the second time in two years, to make amends, because the results of the model of support for the arts have forced you to do so? Mrs. Minister, a model that has to be amended in two years does not need remedies, needs a new suit!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u146	That is what is necessary, not palms, as if they were farewell palms to artistic creation structures! The palms that are struck in this plenary are of little use if they do not correspond to the approval of the measures to be proposed by the CFP, once again to solve these problems that come very behind them, which are particularly aggravated by the year 2010, when 30 % of the distributed support was cut off, which come from 2013, when we began to have a budget to support the arts which was half of the 2011 budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u147	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u148	I conclude, Mr. President. And it was not due to the lack of proposals from the CFP in the last State budget that did not reinforce these funds and did not go to 1 % in culture, because they lacked the votes of the CDS, PSD and PS for these proposals to be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u149	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u150	Finally, Mr President, to conclude, the point from which we have departed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not 1 % for culture, the point we left is 0, 3 %. It's not worth cheating, it's not worth adding to the band's statements of the Air Force, the Navy and the Army, plus the RTP's words...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u151	Mr. João Oliveira, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u152	... and shave everything else so that, in statistics, things say the opposite of the difficult reality with which the structures of artistic creation are faced today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u153	I now give the floor to Mrs Alexandra Vieira from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u154	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Culture is essential to the collective identity of a people and a civilization in a given territory and over time. It is essential for the construction of citizenship and is a condition of democracy. It is not by chance that culture and education are in the Constitution as fundamental rights. Culture allows you to create visions of the world, expand horizons, relate to others, perceive diversity, confront different visions and perspectives, question yourself and others. In the most adverse and diverse contexts, and since the beginnings of humanity, artistic expression exists as a condition of the human being, as a form of resistance, as a vanguard, as a projection of a better, fairer and less unequal world. In Portugal, the claim that 1 % of the State budget is devoted to culture has not been met, which shows that for successive governments to cultivate and enjoy cultural goods is a luxury. The support and financing of culture always depend on budget strikes, which contain other priorities such as saving banks or achieving budgetary surpluses. This reality, which in the Block of the Left, we criticize makes it virtually impossible to live in artistic activity, culture, cultural production and the most varied forms of artistic expression. Culture is a right on the part of those who create it and on the part of those who enjoy it, which must be distributed in a balanced way throughout the territory. It is therefore necessary to define a policy for decent and strong culture, which does not occur only cross-sectionally in other sections of other ministries, as it has been defended. Is it credible that a budget of a ministry could be diluted in others? Of course not! At central and local level, the specific public financial allocation for culture must be visible and undiluted in entertainment, mass consumption, promotional or « for tourists to see ». Objectivity, clarity and direction is the challenge we have left to Mr. Minister of Culture and the Government in defining a cultural policy that does not put hat artists in hand, begging for support, or transforming them into specialists in the bureaucratic task of filling Excel leaves, contest after contest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u156	I therefore welcome, from this place, all those who, in our country, insist on dedicating themselves to culture and the arts, despite all the adversities and volatility of political designs, and who provide a public service that some are still afraid not to recognize as a serious, hard work and now precarious. The fight against the Left Block for social justice and equality is to require the Government and each subsequent, objective cultural policy authority — geared cultural equipment, with autonomy of protection and defined objectives, with price and time policies that make them accessible, with public transport service and with cultural mediation, with clear rules also for supporting the private initiative. For the Left Block it is essential for the Government to respond to its promises by strengthening the appropriations for support for the arts, which today represent less than 10 % of the total Ministry of Culture, which in turn represents less than 0,3 % of the State budget. Now, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, it is also empirical evidence that 102 eligible artistic structures have not obtained funding, of which 35 are theatrical structures. It is essential that the Directorate-General for Arts should be equipped with direct monitoring of the work of the supported structures and in the application process. When culture is a privilege for a few, democracy does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u157	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u158	I will finish, Mr. President. When knowledge, reflection, concern that artistic creation and cultural heritage cause us are denied or there are only sometimes or only for some, we are fewer people, we have less future and we are poorer. In other words, and quoting the actor Nuno Lopes, already honoured in this Chamber, «A country without culture is an empty place ». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u159	I now give the floor to Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite of the PSD for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : Today's debate is the result of the disorientation that has been the cultural policy of the government — there are no projects, no goals, no money and, at the end of this whole, the only thing left is a series of promises to be fulfilled. It is a reality that results from four years of support from the Left Banks to the Socialist Party. The Portuguese Communist Party, which has allocated the debate we have just attended, has done so for the weight it has on its conscience, but this is of little use to the cultural agents of our country, who do not have the minimum means of survival, nor do they have in the government an interlocutor who wants to listen to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u161	Your contribution to the debate is irrelevant! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u162	Really, when you talk about culture and the arts, the left fills your mouth and beats with your hand in your chest when you are in opposition, but deal with your feet and with contempt when you take responsibility. [[PSD applause.]] The government failed. It failed across the line, so it is not surprising that the Professional Committee of Arts, representing 45 artistic structures and more than 300 professionals, has come this week to request the resignation of Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca. The government generated expectations, knowing that it would never fulfill them. The first fallacy was when it was decided to create a ministry to replace a State Secretariat, throwing sand into the eyes of everyone, as if an organic change of government, in a magic pass, was to give a central role to culture on the government agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u163	He's talking about color!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u164	It was a trick all the artists in this country feel in their skin today. Empty promises, never fulfilled, and three ministers later, now comes the Minister of Culture saying that the time has come to dialogue with the agents of the sector. Nothing they've done so far, but now it's what it is! See the concrete case of support for the arts. The Socialist Government has promised a new model of allocation of support, but without adequate funding. Unfortunately, the sequence of the disqualification was brutally simple and predictable. In 2016, they made an inflamed announcement of the new model, which would solve all the problems, since the financing of the arts after finishing the precarious work of the sector. In 2017, the challenge to the presented model began by showing the opposite of what was promised. And in 2018, with provisional results, this led to the indignation of the entire sector. The direct consequence was the end of the activity of dozens of cultural creation projects throughout the country. The Government has stopped the most visible challenge with that old socialist technique of distributing cheques to cover up their incompetence, thus increasing the programme's inequity. We then had everything from working groups to improve the model until the rules for the allocation of financial support changed. But on 11 October this year, it is convenient that soon after the elections, the results of the new competition were published by the Directorate-General for Arts. And that's when the mask fell on this government. It was a contest that left without funding 75 of the 177 projects approved by the jury, i.e. projects that meet the criteria to be financed but for which there is simply no money. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u165	In the face of the government's discredit, the Minister is now coming to say that she will « introduce refinements » by 2020, these refinements that no one knows and promises in which no one already believes. Mr. Minister, as much as the cultural agents of our country value the Portuguese language, the workers do not live in words. The cultural agents ask for the basics, Mrs Minister, we all ask the Government to do its job and to fulfill its promises. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u166	I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, representatives of various structures that are present today: At the end of this debate, it is important to have two things in mind that are indispensable. Firstly, that there is ongoing work, that the Socialist Party and the Government are not present in this absent debate for the last four years; on the contrary, they show results which, with all humility, we recognize, are not those that we would all like to have, because we also recognize that the necessary and already available funds are not those that the country has available at this time. However, we do not fail to recognize that it is possible, however, to continue to be possible, to increase support for the arts, to do so sustainably and to do so in order to ensure a positive development in the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This journey is not over,... [[Oh, is it?Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u168	... this path stays. But it is a course in which we cannot reach and make exactly the same interventions as we would do when there was a deinvestment. That is why it is difficult for us to hear this from the parties that approved Budgets from the previous state — in all of them recognizing that there is an increase in the values of support for the arts — and to hold a debate as if we were discussing with the previous government that actually cut, uninvestted, prevented the blooming of the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Obviously, we should no longer be surprised at the capacity of the PSD and the CDS to present themselves in this debate as if they had not modified the model to assign even less support to the sector,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... in the same way that they now accuse the functioning of a model of competition that, throughout their governance, accepted as valid, precisely because, throughout their governance, they preferred to pretend that the problem did not exist, they preferred to ignore the agents of the sector and intended to continue forward, as if culture was not a priority. There have been 38 % budgetary growth in the last four years. Question : In this debate, what contribution does the PSD and CDS make to the future of the sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u169	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u170	What do you propose in terms of increasing the funds available to support the arts? And now, as you have not had the opportunity so far, remind us what your position was when we discussed here should or should not be supported by the funding line that puts us today on the 25 million mark. They didn't follow! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They didn't follow! And are you not ashamed to come here to say that they are the main defense of the sector, when all debates and opportunities fail? Oh, my God! Let's not miss the targets. This debate should not lead to confusion between what was the actual increase — increase, repeat! — of which it is available. Today we have 84 million supported and we have risen to 100 million euros, which will be the value we will find at the end of the legislature. We are moving towards reaching 2 % of the State budget, a priority taken collectively by the parties that have been supporting the government and the State budgets,... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... values which, we remember, were EUR 13, EUR 7 million in 2015, when the previous governance was over, which are today in the 25 million with the support of the arts that increased by 83 % in total, I repeat 83 %! In the specific case of what we are discussing here, the biennials, there was an increase of 17 % in relation to the previous programme. And why is it still not possible to answer everything? It is not possible to respond to everything, since there are more accepted applications — 32 % have grown; there are more eligible entities — 46 % have grown; there is more support — on average, 16 % have grown supported entities that will have more money available for their activities;... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... there is, in relation to the previous table, a quarter of new supported entities, more than half, 59 % of those who applied, have support,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u171	And the others shouldn't be supported? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u172	... and the amounts applied for increased by 78 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u173	If there are more structures to do work, support is given!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u174	Therefore, it is not a de-investment framework, it is a framework in which new structures have been monitored and those who have applied have been answered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] But it is also a framework in which the procedure has been reviewed, it is a framework in which, contrary to what Mr Carlos Silva said, the bureaucracy has been removed. It is easier today to apply. Today, the criteria do not automatically exclude entities that do not reach only 60 % of one of the eligibility criteria, take into account the full number of each application and each of those submitted. The contest opened nine months before it's usual. In times when VV. They ruled, it was necessary, in the year in which the money was to be transferred, to be still waiting for the results, while now, even before the start of the programme and the support period, the results are already known. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Obviously there is availability by the Government of the PS to continue to hold this debate, to continue to increase funds, to continue to identify ways of, through other support lines — be those involving the authorities or the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees),... [[Protests by PCP Members Ana Mesquita and João Dias.]] ... either through programmes that can be designed for those who are now outside — give an answer and continue to support those who are outside this competition because it was not eligible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u175	But why does it have to be a contest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u176	But one thing we do not confuse: we cannot ignore the principle of the competition! Mr João Oliveira, this is a structural debate. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u177	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. This is a structural element. The idea that the contest is somehow a bureaucratic obstacle is wrong,... [[PCP protests.]] ...because the competition is what protects transparency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u179	But why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u180	...objectivity, ensuring that there are no political criteria that overlap with cultural evaluation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u181	How are schools funded? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u182	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u183	We can believe that the bad tape is in power today and does not give support to the entities. But I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen: would you prefer a model and a time when it is under the circumstances of each majority that support is decided, without independent judges? Oh, my God! [[PSD and PCP protests.]] I suspect what would happen if governance were in the hands of those who do not respect transparency and objectivity, and that is a path that I do not want for culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u184	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for this debate. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the fact that this debate is being held today at a stage when the biennial invitation to tender is concluded. It is actually the time for us to do so and start building answers for the future. I want to end this debate with a balance sheet of what has been done and what we have to do. On the one hand, I would like to remind you here, as it has been recalled during this debate, that a review of the model of support for the arts in the previous Government has been made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u186	Previously on this one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u187	It was a process that took some time, involved many structures, involved many movements and resulted in this new model of support for the arts. in this model of support for the arts and in the discussion that has been made, many entities and many structures have made their contributions, some have been accepted, others have not been accepted—it is part of the work with the entities and the work in dialogue. I recall here that during the debate held in 2016 and 2017, the structural principle of the competition was something always very valued by different entities. And it has been valued precisely because that is what Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves said here, which allows, and will always allow, regardless of the majority or the parties who are in government, this very important independence between those who decide and those who receive support. This is a debate that we must always continue to do, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss today the situation we have, but we will never be able to question that the situation may change to 5 or 10 years. What we think might be better today, from a few years away, may be very bad, and this is a vision from which we do not want to give up. What we do today has impacts on how the model of support for the arts will work for the next generations of creators and artistic structures. In 2016 and 2017, one of the demands of this debate was to return to the 2009 levels in relation to the financing of support for the arts: EUR 25 million. It was possible, in this State Budget, also thanks to the work of the parties on our left. It was possible to provide this biennial support of EUR 25 million, thus returning to the levels of 2009, as long as it was an expectation of the sector and also of different parties. On the other hand, in this discussion that was made, there were some contributions that, of course, were left out, but I remember that, with the review that was done just after the first contest, there were two very important change factors that were also claimed by the structures and that were introduced. The first one that was not necessary or was not an immediate consequence that structures with less than 60 % of one of the evaluation factors were automatically excluded from support. This was a very important structural change which has been introduced, which has made it, and well! , the evaluation made this time by the jury made that there were no structures, particularly in the theatre, which were considered not eligible, contrary to what happened in the previous competition. On the other hand, in this work that was done, six representative entities of the sector were involved, representing more than 900 entities, and six personalities. I recall something I have said several times: there has not been one, one, proposal for a consensus amendment adopted in this working group with representatives of more than 900 structures which have not been accepted by the Government. There has not even been a proposal that has not been accepted. Therefore, this biennial competition we are discussing here had EUR 25 million and a model that was reviewed one year ago with the participation of individualities and representative structures of 900 entities throughout the country. Here we have arrived, the synthesis I want to leave here — and not answering directly to some questions that have been answered during the debate by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen — the structural review of the model has been carried out; the model has been adjusted to the results of the first two-year competition; it has been provided with EUR 25 million, returning to the 2009 levels; a very deep simplification of this competition has been made. I would like to point out one very important aspect: the entities that applied for this biennial invitation to tender have not been obliged, as in the past, to complete all the elements for the next two years, only to do so for the first year and in the subsequent year they will - at due time. Therefore, a very strong work has been done to simplify the procedures of this competition. In addition, we have equipped the arts with more investment and more structure. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] We have a result that there are more supported structures, there are many new structures that are supported and that had no support before. And I point out once again, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, for the first time, opened this competition six months earlier, was opened in the first quarter of the year and, for the first time, the structures will also have support contracts signed for the next two years, in the year prior to the biennium. I recall that during the PSD Government, tenders were normally opened in November and December of the year before the beginning of the Biennial. For the first time, that didn't happen. Here, as I have said several times, the results of this competition identify new challenges. The challenge of rejuvenation and the emergence of many new entities with a request for higher support naturally poses challenges that we will have to respond to. on the part of the government, what we want to make clear today is that we know that there are problems, we know that there are challenges and we know that we have to solve them, and we will solve them. But let's solve them, yes, in dialogue with the structures. But now is the time, because no member of the government or, at least, this Minister of Culture will ever do anything to interfere with the functioning of an independent external jury competition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I won't, and I never did. But there is something I know and that, despite everything, I can be proud of: 20 years ago I have performed public functions and, in 20 years, everything I have done and in all areas where I have spent it in dialogue and in a participatory manner. It's something I can be proud of. That's what I've done, and here, in culture, in the next four years, it's exactly what I'm going to do. There will be no solutions that are not discussed with the representative structures and entities. And now is the time. The meetings are marked, the dialogue will begin and there is something we know: 2020 is a decisive year, it is a year in which there will be no support contests, it is a year in which there will be only the annual programmes to support the arts. Therefore, it will be a year in which we have to answer two questions: first, to solve specific cases that this competition has identified and left out; second, to work for that 2021, which is the decisive year of the new supported competition to the arts, be adjusted to reality and respond to what this biennial contest has left today. This is the last word: I will be here, the government will be here to dialogue with everyone so that the solutions exist. However, they are not solutions from the head of the Minister of Culture but solutions discussed with everyone and not in my office. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u188	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also have a second point on the agenda, although it is timeless, which is the Draft of Deliberation No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR ) — Composition of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to international parliamentary organizations in the XIV Legislation. We are therefore going to move forward to the last item on today's agenda, which is why I would ask the services to prepare the electronic record of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the purpose of the quorum check. [[Pause.]] There are 33 ladies and gentlemen. Members who have not yet registered. Possibly many will be out. Today, there is the Congress of the National Association of Municipalities and other events that require the presence of Members. I wonder who couldn't register electronically. [[Pause.]] Not electronically recorded by the Mr. Deputies Bruno Aragão, from PS, Alexandre Poço, Carlos Silva, Cristovão Norte and Fernanda Velez, from PSD, Antonio Filipe and Bruno Dias, from PCP, and André Silva, Bebiana Cunha, Cristina Rodrigues and Inês de Sousa Real, from PAN, perfezing 11 presences. We have a quorum more than enough to proceed to the vote, but before that, Secretary Sofia Araújo will announce the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 120 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Increased durability and expansion of the guarantee for movable and immovable property ( amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 8 April and Decree-Law No 84 / 2008 of 21 May) and 127 / XIV/1. a ( IL) — Place the costs incurred by the employer in contributions to social security ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approved the Labour Code ) in the payment receipt of workers'salaries. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u190	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to start the votes. We passed to Vote No 77 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) :— regretting the death of Eduardo Nascimento, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Eduardo Nascimento was a Portuguese singer and musician born in Luanda, Angola, on June 26, 1943 and died in Lisbon, on November 22. Leader of the set The Rocks, who worked both in Portugal and in Angola, participated in an ié-ié contest, held in the old Monumental Theatre in the 1960s, thus highlighting itself in the musical panorama of Lisbon. Eduardo Nascimento won the Press Award in 1966. In 1967, he won the RTP Festival of the Song with the theme The Wind Mudou, composed of Nuno Nazaré Fernandes and with the letter of João Magalhães Fernandes, staying in 12. the place at the Eurovision Festival of the Song, held in Vienna of Austria. Eduardo Nascimento was the first black singer to represent Portugal and the second one to step on the stages of the Eurofestival of the Song. The theme The Wind Change would be re-established by the Delfins, by Adelaide Ferreira and the UHF. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its public regret at the death of Eduardo Nascimento and presents to his family his condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u192	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 78 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PSD ) — For the death of Antonio Augusto Morais Liberato. Mrs. Helga Correia will do the favor of reading this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last November 22, he died in Orlando, Florida, the well-known Brazilian television presenter Gugu Liberato, whose baptism name was António Augusto Morais Liberato. Gugu Liberato was a Lusodescendant, whose parents were from Mirandela, proudly assuming his Portuguese nationality and raising the issue of permanent disclosure of Portugal in the brother country. It was distinguished in several programs of SBT and TV Record, being considered one of the most recognized TV bulks in Brazil. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its public regret for the death of Gugu Liberato and presents to his family his condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to Vote No 62 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PSD member ) — Sentence and sorrow for the deaths in demonstrations in Iran. I ask Secretary Lina Lopes to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The Iranian population began a wave of demonstrations and protests on November 15. Protests against the 50 % increase in fuel prices began in the capital and spread to several cities in Iran. According to international organizations such as Amnesty International, at least 106 people were killed in clashes with security forces, however, as reported in the statement, that ‘ the organization believes that the actual number of fatalities may be much higher, with some reports suggesting that more than 200 people were killed. ’ It also points out that ‘ the events of the last days demonstrate a distressing pattern of illegal deaths by Iranian security forces, who used excessive and lethal force to crush mostly peaceful protests. A number of reports of shots were reported on from roofs of buildings and, in one case, from a helicopter. The Assembly of the Republic, above all, decides to show its sorrow for the dead in the clashes that have occurred in Iran in the last few weeks and to condemn the excesses committed in the repression to stop the protests and demonstrations. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u196	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and L and votes against the PCP and ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u197	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u198	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u199	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u200	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following vote No 63 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Of regret and solidarity for the victims of the earthquake in Albania, which will also be read by Ms Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In the morning of last Tuesday, Albania was hit by an earthquake of magnitude 6, 4, on the Richter scale, having felt the avalanche around 4 local hours, 3 Portuguese hours, with epicenter located 30 km from the capital, Tirana, in which it was the second earthquake of strong impact in just two months and one of the strongest of the last 10 years. As the official number of dead, injured and missing persons is now being ascertained, they have already informed the Albanian authorities that, as a result of this disaster, several buildings have collapsed, with the greatest damage occurring in the capital, Tirana, Durres and Thumane. In recent hours, according to international information, more than 100 replicas of this avalanche were found, which was also felt in Italy and Serbia, more than 600 km from its epicenter, and these are well demonstrated by the size and severity of the geological phenomenon. The fact that in Albania, particularly in these most affected cities, many buildings are old, structurally fragile and the urban mesh itself does not have the ideal characteristics to withstand this type of calamity, was decisive for the severity of the damage and for the high number of victims. The Assembly of the Republic thus presents its solidarity with the people and the Albanian authorities at this difficult time, as well as its deepest sympathy for all the victims resulting from this disaster. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u202	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and L, votes against PS Edite Estrela and Jorge Lacão and the PS abstention.]] In the meantime, Mr. Members Jorge Lacão and Edite Estrela, of the PS, informed the Bureau that they would present statements of vote on this vote. We now turn to Vote No 73 / XIV / 1. a ( consensualized in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, between the PS and PSD parliamentary groups ) — Grief for the victims of the earthquake in Albania. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In the morning of Tuesday, November 26, the land trembled in Albania. The earthquake, of magnitude 6, 4 on the Richter scale, caused, according to the first official announcements of the Albanian Government, more than a dozen dead and more than 600 wounded. This was one of the strongest earthquakes in the region. The victims found by rescue teams were in Durres, a coastal town located 40 km from the capital, and that was the closest to the epicenter of the earthquake, and in Thumana and Kurbin, two small cities north of Tirana. The majority of the victims died when the buildings in which they were demolished following the earthquake. According to the Albanian health authorities, about 600 people needed medical assistance in the hospitals of Tirana, Durres, Kruja, Kurbin and Lezha. Thus, taking into account the scale of this tragedy, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, decides to approve a vote of regret for the fatal victims of this earthquake, which occurred in Albania, expressing sympathy to their families and expressing their solidarity with those who were wounded. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u204	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote just read out. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of these five pedigree votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We shall continue with the vote on vote No 39 / XIV / 1. a ( consensualized in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities, between the Parliamentary Groups of PS, PSD, BE, and CDS-PP ) — Concerned about the lack of conclusions regarding the disappearance of the entrepreneur Américo Sebastião, in Mozambique. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u205	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u206	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u207	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u208	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 61 / XIV / 1. a ( consensualized in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities, between the Parliamentary Groups of PS, PSD, BE, and CDS-PP ) — Condemning genocide against the Yazidi minority in Iraq by the self-proclaimed Islamic State. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on vote No 65 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — From greeting to student climate strike. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and L, votes against CH and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u209	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u210	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u211	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u212	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u213	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u214	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u215	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will make a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u216	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to Vote No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the NAP ) — From greeting to all students who organized and participated in the student climate strike on 29 November. With regard to this vote, a time was requested for interventions of 2 minutes for each parliamentary group wishing to use the word. Let us then begin this period of brief interventions. Mr André Silva, from the PAN, has a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we greet all the students who have organized and participate in the student climate strike. This is already the fourth student climate strike that occurs in our country and has actions from North to South involving thousands of students. Inspired by the latest actions taken by the young Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, students alert society and political decision makers to the importance and impact that political decisions have on their own and on our future. The impact of the current extractive/productive economic model, common to the States and governments of the left and right of the world, has been reflected in both climate change and ecosystem balance, jeopardizing the future of humanity as we know it. As Portugal is one of the countries where the impact of climate change will most be felt, it becomes urgent to change the paradigm, reverting environmental subjugation to economic and business interests. For this reason, the NAP has today entered into the Bureau of a bill that aims to create the basic laws of climate, a law with strengthened value, a law that responds effectively to the climate emergency, a legal mechanism that ensures the fulfilment of the goals of decarbonization. 10 years from the non-return point, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, this law holds everyone responsible — the most polluting sectors of our economy, the government, which is now bound to nothing — and gives the Assembly of the Republic and the scientific community, by law, the ability to monitor and examine. We welcome again, and finally, all the students and all the students who have taken this matter to the social and political debate, which is essential for us to give greater importance and, above all, give legal and legal importance. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u218	Mr Miguel Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth student climate strike is at the doors of this House. Once again, the young people of this country have mobilized to demand climate action from all of us, their representatives, their rulers. This action is pressing, not only to defend biodiversity or to safeguard the survival of the human species. It is essential to protect our economy, our jobs, our living conditions from the devastation that can cause us climate chaos. The strike is not new, but the climate action is also no novelty for this country or for the PS. Portugal was even the first country in the world to undertake to be carbon neutral until 2050. We have a study, consistent and concrete guide on how to get there, and we already have evidence given with the cheapest solar electricity in the world, with the ongoing investment and cheaper social passes in public transport and with the anticipation of the end of the coal and non-reusable plastic plants. But the students on strike are right: it is necessary to do even more and better. Climate change, Mr President, is one of the greatest challenges of our society, because of the seriousness of the threat and the extent to which we still have to do to stop them. For our generation they are even an existential threat — that of being the first generation that lives worse and less than that of our parents. The Socialist Party is clear: we greet the strike, listen and share this struggle. Next week begins COP 25 (25th Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) in Madrid, and in PS we have no doubt that we must continue to lead, here in Portugal and in diplomatic terms, the global effort to decarbonize society and the economy. Let's do it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u220	Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u221	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party obviously wants to welcome the initiative, greet the students, greet everyone and everyone who commits to climate action. Climate emergency is evidence for us, as it is evidence, too, that is not just a problem of some.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u223	It's a problem of everyone, of all people, of all parties. It is a problem that does not know borders and which is therefore also of all countries. Everyone here, no doubt, we like our country very much, we like Portugal very much. We all like our planet very much, and we all certainly want the planet and the country to continue after us, and better. Young people call on us to act because they know that better than having politicians with good ideas for them is to have politicians who know that they have very good ideas for themselves and their future. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u224	They call us to a new standard, where it is normal to reuse more and waste less, where it is normal to recycle more and consume less disposable plastic, where it is normal to have more capture and less emission. from here to a few years, the PSD doesn't want to repent and doesn't want to look at the world and say that we haven't done enough. We're next to the climate action. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u225	You now have the floor for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes the student climate strike. Today, hundreds of thousands of young people in the country and throughout the globe have come out with a very clear message: there is no time to wait, climate action is urgent. That's why we're next to these young people. And let no one say that the younger generations don't want to know about our collective future. They're there protesting, demanding concrete action. We can hear it! It is also essential to know that this Parliament and the European Parliament have already made the declaration of climate emergency. But symbolic acts are not enough. This statement is of the utmost importance, but concrete policies are also needed to tackle the climate crisis. Let us also hear what the young people said today in front of the Assembly of the Republic. They said that those who suffer most from climate change are the poorest layers, precisely those that contribute less to climate change. That is why the response to the climate crisis is a response of justice in the economy, climate justice and equality policies. We can hear these young people! We know how to meet the challenges the planet faces! We also know that only 100 companies worldwide are responsible for 70% of greenhouse gas emissions. We know, therefore, that it is very easy to solve the problem. But we need to change the rules of the economy, change the rules of the game, so that humanity, wildlife and the planet have a future. Let us therefore know how to meet this challenge! Next week begins the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Madrid. Let us hope that the world leaders gathered there will know, for the first time, also do climate action and meet the expectations of these young people, the expectations of the planet and ensure that we will change the system so that the climate does not change. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u227	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens greet all the young people who participated in the various demonstrations throughout the country. Young people demand a clear change in environmental policies that cover all areas. It is necessary to remove from the role measures to protect nature and biodiversity and not allow capitalism to continue to prevail over environmental values. This is another important step in this House that started with a Green proposal, so that Portugal can take steps to comply with the Kyoto Protocol and to combat climate change. After 20 years, The Greens say: "Welcome to this battle, which is everyone's! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u229	Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group would like to welcome all the students who have been and have been in the fight against environmental degradation for so long. We have always said that capitalism is not 'green' and we have warned of the need to find other forms of development. But the truth—and this is where a lot is decided—is that "no egg-free omelets are made". Progress needs to be made towards concrete measures. It is necessary to continue to reduce the costs of public transport with a view to the transition of individual transport to other forms of transport. We must continue to defend the Tejo River and the public management of the water.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u231	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u232	We must combat the privatization of natural resources. The protected areas need to be valued. It is necessary to establish the host network for exotic animals and to extend the host network for abandoned animals. It is necessary to combat programmed obsolescence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u233	All right! ... which aims only the profit and not the satisfaction of needs. Natural resources must be public, particularly water. Public scientific research needs to be ensured so that we can move forward towards sustainable development. Economic relations between States, contrary to what has been the policy of the European Union, must be complementary rather than competitive. The capitalist system exploits people and exploits resources without limitations. There are those who want to make the concern about the environment a business—see that they want to trade carbon emission licenses there! But our goal is not profit, our goal is the well-being of people and populations, and that must be what we must fight for. That is why, as we have heard in the demonstrations, more actions and fewer words are needed. Either this House is in the interests of the large economic groups, and it has to assume it, or it is on the side of people, on the side of environmental balance and ecosystems. The call that the PCP leaves is an appeal for action and not for words. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u234	Finally, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to say that, obviously, for us, the climate issue — I say the 'climate urgency', which, moreover, seems to me more appropriate than the expression 'climate emergency' — is an important issue, an essential issue, we have no doubt about that. Moreover, we share many of the concerns that have been expressed in European forums. We note, for example, that, even recently, the OECD itself underlined the obvious relationship between social and economic development and the issue of climate urgency. We know that there are more than 1000 million people in the world without access to electricity and we also know that it is in the poorest countries that this difficulty is greater, where it is more difficult not to use fossil fuels, and that, therefore, the most developed nations and the richest countries must bear, including financially, this advance and development for the protection of the planet and for the need to avoid global warming at all costs. That is our position—there is no doubt about it, there is no hesitation about it. We have a firm and clear position on this matter, of those who believe, including, that economic development, social development and environmental protection begin in each of our lands. And obviously, environment and development cannot and should not be incompatible. That is what we think and we have no doubt about it. Secondly, we see as positive the concern of the new generations: the fact that they look differently at this matter, the fact that they are more sensitive, as has been said here, the fact that they are more active in this matter. But let this be clear: we find civic participation well, but we do not follow three essential things. First, we do not follow the most radical, fundamentalist and extremist views in this matter. Secondly, we do not follow the idea that the Parliament of the elected representatives of the Portuguese people should appeal that young people, in order to resolve the climate issue, do not go to classes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u236	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u237	...and that, on Fridays, they leave classes to solve the problem. And thirdly, we do not, above all, follow the shameful political use that some parties are trying to do on this same subject. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u238	Mrs. Members, let us then vote vote on vote No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the NAP ) — From greeting to all students who organized and participated in the student climate strike on 29 November. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L, votes against the CDS-PP and CH and abstention from the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u239	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u240	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u241	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u242	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 72 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — From greeting to student climate strike. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and L, votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL, and abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u243	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u244	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u245	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u246	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We passed to Vote No 66 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by 1 PSD Member ) — Greetings to the rural world. As regards this vote, a debate was also requested, each two-minute parliamentary group to intervene. First of all, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS presented this greeting vote to the rural world not only because the CDS has always valued the rural world — agriculture, farming, livestock, forest, hunting and fishing — but also because this vote is necessary. It was not by chance that the rural world felt the need to manifest itself — and it felt the need to manifest itself with reason — last week. It is that, often, this rural world is misunderstood and, more than not understood, it is disrespected and often treated as being made up of people who are engaged in extractivist exploitation activities and who are enemies of animals or even as something that belongs to the past rather than something that we should be proud of in the present and that we must know how to preserve for the future. For this reason, because it is urgent to combat this vision and because we do not profile this vision, the CDS presented this vote of greeting to the rural world. And also because, as was said in some posters in this event, «if the field does not plant, the city does not eat». And more than that, because we are all Portuguese—rural and urban—and we must all be proud of our traditions and our identity. And, yes, the rural world preserves that identity and tradition, it is part of it. The CDS is proud of it and therefore presents this greeting vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u248	Mr André Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP will vote against the CDS-PP vote. This brings an eager reading of reality and a desperate attempt to exempt itself from its own responsibilities with regard to the substantial depopulation and desertification of the Portuguese territory. It is too obvious that those, such as the CDS and others, who are the most defenders of the rural world, are the ones who have attacked it most. We can see what happened with the end of the railway lines in the country, passing through the closure of various services, such as CTT balconies, banks, pharmacy and health centers, the untiring expansion of the intensive olive and eucalyptus, the plasticification of the vicentina coast, by closing the eyes to highly polluting agricultural industries until the destruction of the last rivers, free and wild, with the construction of large dams that cause the depopulation of the interior, corroding the territorial cohesion. Moreover, the pretext of a supposed defense of the rural world and claiming, without ownership, the exclusive struggle that is of us all, the vote of the CDS no longer intends to turn one part of the country against the other, perhaps in a desperate attempt not to lose the exclusive of the chavão of the «defense of traditions», as a justification for perpetuating anachronic practices, which no longer take place in an evolved and empathic society such as portuguese, such as bullurachia, shooting on the flight, chicken races or hunting practices, such as that carried out on the paulada or through fights between animals with the use of clothing, often made up of battered and undernourished dogs. For the NAP, unlike the radicalism and extremism of the CDS, the defense of the rural world is done by valuing the protection of populations, with policies to fix people and promote and defend territories of low density, always with full respect for the environment and other forms of life, that is, the greatest harmony that should guide us. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u250	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr John Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the revitalization of the interior and the most depressed areas is an undeniable challenge for Portugal. No one can be indifferent to the effort that is required. Actions such as the cadastral information system, local development associations, redistributive payment, the status of the young rural entrepreneur or the status of family agriculture are examples of what it is important to continue and strengthen. In a country where more than 90 % of agricultural holdings are family carousel, reality is undisturbed: there are few people in the rural world. We must refocus and reaffirm the importance and identity of the rural world, or of the new rural world. It was in this context that the Socialist Party associated itself with the demonstration for the rural world, on 22 November, and it is in this context that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is associated with the present greeting of the rural world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u252	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is also associated with this vote, which makes sense at a time when we have an increasingly out of fashion, forgotten, a more depressed, increasingly deserted and even more misunderstood rural world. We just hear the intervention that the NAP has just done to figure out how misunderstood it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u255	It is the rural world as the enemy, as if the people of the rural world were attacking and being responsible for climate change, making themselves the main agents of conservation, preservation and carbon sequestration. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u256	That's all rural world, a world that can't be the enemy. He's the friend, and he has to be seen like this. And when the agents consider themselves unjust, forgotten by the modism that is so fat in our society—and consider, on the one hand, the rurals and, on the other hand, the urbans are a good example of that—it cannot be so. The territory must be unique, one, and each has its role in development. Agricultural activity and rural development are fundamental to the well-being of the territory, to the harmony of development, to territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u257	Is Tauromachia fundamental? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u258	We always have to defend the rural world and we will always be with rural actors, in line with good climate practices, because they have to be done together, are friends and have to work together. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u259	That is what we defend, and not the rural worldversus the urban world, because they are not enemies, complement each other. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u260	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens also welcome the rural world, because it contains a set of potentials, not only from an economic point of view, but also in what it represents in the fight against the desertification of the interior. Therefore, the rural world must be promoted with clear measures. when we talk about clear measures, for example, the need to value and support family agriculture, but also the need to reopen public services of proximity that the PSD/CDS Government has shut down throughout the country, in particular the decentralized services of the Ministry of Agriculture, which have an absolutely central role here. The rural world plays a number of potentialities that cannot continue to be ignored, because, in addition to their performance with regard to setting people in the rural world, in combating desertification in the interior, they are also extremely important in combating fires, from the perspective of prevention. When there are people, when there are people, there are fewer fires. Therefore, it is necessary to value the rural world. This is a challenge for all of us to move and, on the Green side, it is always appropriate to remember the effort we have made to stop the area of expansion of the eucalyptus, which had been liberalized by the PSD and the CDS — it is worth mentioning here! — but also our proposal, which the previous Government has just accepted, in order to promote tax benefits for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to install within the country and thereby encourage the rural world. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u262	For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Ricardo Vicente has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS intends, with this proposal, to invent a cleavage between the rural population and the urban population, a cleavage that does not exist from the point of view of the population. What fails the rural population is what has failed in right-wing politics in recent years, while it has been government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u264	In recent years, has politics been right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u265	Public policy has failed to promote mobility, public policy has failed to strengthen CTTs and essential public services, public policy has failed to regulate the forest and prevent the expansion of eucalyptus and fire risks,... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ... lack of public policy to regulate superintensive cultures, and today we have the olive and the peanut to conquer territory and to harm those who live in rural areas. For all these reasons, the Bloc will abstain from voting on this vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u266	Mr João Dias, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the support of the CFP to the rural world is unquestionable. Its intervention in the defence of family agriculture, small and medium-sized farmers, forest producers, livestock producers, the populations that live there is widely known. The PCP was the only party that proposed the creation of the status of family farming, which was plunged by PS, PSD and CDS. The CFP has taken the defence of more support for small and medium-sized agriculture within the framework of the common agricultural policy ( CAP) after having denounced the consequences of Portugal's integration into the European Union and the entry of the CAP into our country; it has taken the fight against the closure of businesses and the destruction of jobs; it has strongly opposed the closure of public services. We voted in favour of this CDS vote, without hiding our disagreements about some of its aspects. The text aims to whiteen the responsibilities in the destruction of the rural world of the proposed party, the CDS, whose leader was Minister of Agriculture in the PSD/CDS government and which, in this position, contributed to the destruction of family agriculture, imposing unreasonable rules and bureaucracy. I refer to some: the obligation to register in the Finances to sell half a dozen products; it liberalized the planting of eucalyptus, with the impacts that it had on agriculture; it approved the Baldios Law, which aims to deliver the buckets to the gula of private interests; it gave the final machadada in Casa do Douro ; it realized the end of the milk quotas, which caused the known trail of destruction of dairy farms in our country; it supported the large retail distribution and its overwhelming action of prices in hundreds of... Correct...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u268	Well, run it, 'cause that didn't happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u269	I lost... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u270	Mr President, you will find yourself quickly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u271	I am sorry, Mr President, but I have lost myself in the text.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u272	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u273	We also do not follow the logic of the CDS of artificial counterposition between the populations of the rural world and the urban populations, when History has already given immense examples of rulers from the rural world who have applied policies that harm the interests of the rural world precisely. Finally, we note that the text of the vote does not make a single reference to family farming and small farmers, which are the basis of the occupation of the territory and are the overwhelming majority of the agricultural population. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u274	Mrs. Members, let us therefore vote vote on vote No 66 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — From greeting to the rural world. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL, votes against the NAP and abstentions by BE, L and PS Member Pedro Delgado Alves.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to say that the Bureau has been informed that you are. Mr Jorge Lacão and Edite Estrela, of the PS, will deliver a written statement of vote on vote No 63 / XIV / 1. a, of the Arrival, on the earthquake in Albania.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u275	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u276	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u277	To announce that I will make a statement in writing on the vote just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u278	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. The vote was followed by vote No 67 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of solidarity for the International Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u279	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u280	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u281	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u282	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u283	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u284	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u285	Mr President, it is also to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u286	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 68 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD members ) — With praise for the recognition of the sporting results of coach Jorge Jesus and Fernando Santos. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us vote No 69 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the NAP ) — Condemning the failure to comply with animal protection and welfare rules in the transport of live animals in several Member States and the death of more than 14,000 sheep in the transport of live animals. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, PAN and L and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u287	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u288	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u289	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u290	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following vote No 70 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the NAP ) — Condemnation for serious and systematic violations of human rights and freedom of religion of Muslim minorities and the Uighur people in China. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and L, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions of PS and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u291	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u292	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u293	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u294	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u295	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u296	Mrs. Member, what effect is it for?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u297	It is also to announce that we will present a declaration of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u298	It is also registered, Mrs. We turn to the vote on vote No 74 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members ) — Congratulations on the proclamation of May 5 as World Language Day of Portuguese. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote vote No 75 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Greetings by the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Composition of the delegations of the Assembly of the Republic to the international parliamentary organizations in the XIV Legislation. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and L and with abstentions from the CFP, PAN, ENP, CH and IL.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 56 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Publication of the portal for recognition of specialists in medical physics. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and the CDS-PP abstention.]] However, the Bureau had the indication that Mrs Rosário Gambôa was unable to sign up and asked to announce her presence. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u299	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I couldn't sign up at first, but I'm here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u300	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. António Gameiro, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u301	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. As I was late, I couldn't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u302	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to vote on four opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I would ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to give an account of the first opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u303	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa Norte, Juízo Local Criminal de Torres Vedras — Juiz 2, Case No 204 / 18.0PATVD, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro do Carmo ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u304	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo, I would like to take note of the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u305	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Central Criminal Court of Braga — Judge 5, Case No 202 / 14.2TELSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Hugo Pires ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u306	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo, please report on the third opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u307	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Central Criminal Court of Braga — Judge 5, Case No 202 / 14.2TELSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Firmino Marques ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u308	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo, please report to the room and final opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u309	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Central Criminal Court of Vila do Conde — Judge 7, Case No. 361 / 15.7PAMAI, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Luís Monteiro ( BE ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-29.u310	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In the meantime, Mrs Cristas pointed out to the Bureau that she was present, although it had not been able to register. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it remains to be announced that the agenda for the plenary meeting next Wednesday, beginning at 3 p.m., consists of political statements. I wish everyone a good weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 8 minutes.]]
