ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u1	Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. The first item on the agenda relates to draft resolution No 1850 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to change the protection policy of children and young people at risk by relaunching family reception as a privileged measure between placement measures. The draft resolution will be presented by Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The schedule that the CDS brings here today aims to protect those children and those young people who are in a more fragile and vulnerable situation, from among the most serious serious situations. in developed countries, family reception is the rule of placement measures. There are countries where the percentage of children in foster care, in proportion of institutionalized children, is 95 % to 5 %. What about Portugal? In Portugal the situation is diametrically opposed: only 3 % of the children placed are in family care; the rule is institutionalization. It is a truly shocking situation, it is a situation that all of us, present in the different benches, have to shock. In Portugal, there are CPCJs (protection committees for children and young people) and courts that, before a certain child, propose, or even order, family reception as the measure appropriate to that specific case and, despite their understanding, are confronted with a wall of refusal of action by the Social Security Institute. These are sovereign bodies that ask for and determine that a child is integrated into a host family without that decision being respected. Most districts in Portugal have no family reception. In Lisbon, there has not been a single household placement since the change of the law. Portugal therefore lives in serious violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which determines that « All decisions concerning children(... ) will primarily take into account the best interests of the child. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is shocking that IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) who want to select and accompany host families, in some cases—are of our knowledge—are even willing to do so without financial compensation, and social security does not allow it. Despite the broad consensus in this area, including this House, the government has not been opposing; before, it has been exacerbating the very, very serious diagnosis. For us to move on from words to acts, so that this is no longer just a vain and inconsequential discussion, the CDS gives here some clues and proposes some very concrete steps: rebalancing of the budget allocation between the various measures for the placement of children and young people at risk; ensuring that this measure can be implemented quickly throughout the national territory; implementing concrete measures—for example, that children in family care are entitled to the same family allowance as institutionalized children; that the monthlyity of daycare and children in the social sector is for children in family care at the same amount as for institutionalized children; that any support to the host family, where that is the case, is a support or subsidy and not a payment for a service provision. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have discussed this subject several times and have shown a consensus in the diagnosis. Let us also be able to mobilize ourselves in an answer that must be urgent, it must be immediate, it must be consequent and it must not fail to bear in mind those who aim when we are discussing this issue: the most vulnerable, fragile children who have no voice. Let us bear in mind that responsibility! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u3	We are now debating this legislative initiative. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Protecting is, in Portugal, most of the time, the option to institutionalize, as if it were not children the victims but those who would deserve any kind of punishment, because that is what this is about. Children feel that way and that is what they believe: that they are guilty and that they are being punished. I want to make a parenthesis here to remember that the institutionalization debate versus family reception, including at the Academy and internationally, is a debate that is far from consensualized. They are known—and nobody doubts—the negative impacts of institutionalization on children, their full and harmonious development and their social integration. We know how the cycles of exclusion and marginalization often repeat in these children and in these young people and it is not hard to realize that, for more colored walls, for more teddies in beds, for more scattered toys that exist, no institution with 15, 30 or sometimes more children can ever mimic a family. We must also recognise that family reception is not without bad consequences either. The child is placed in a family, there it grows and develops, plays, studies, also establishes ties with the extended family, until one day it realizes that that is not, effectively, its final family. Many experts have warned of the emotional consequences that can occur there and come to the conclusion that this option can, in some cases, configure emotional violence against children. This parenthesis only serves to remember that this is a complex debate and that should not be rooted in absolute certainty or rigid positions, because each case is a case, each child is a child. The draft resolution presented by the CDS aims to contribute to the increase in the placement of children in family care. Indeed, this is what our Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo is privileged, especially for children up to 6 years old, and we know that Portugal continues to record the highest rates — an extraordinarily high rate — of institutionalization. Although some of the measures proposed by the CDS already find a response in the bills that are under discussion, in the field of expertise in the Committee on Labour, we recognize the important contribution they make to this discussion. Host families shall benefit from financial and tax measures. But as important as these for providing the necessary care to children with such heavy life experiences is the training, follow-up and support provided to families that must be systematic and continuous. The ability to accommodate children with such difficult trajectories or to establish contacts and maintain relationships with the family of origin of children requires specific competences that necessarily have much work and encouragement. The Left Block also considers that it must be the direct responsibility of the State, and specifically social security, for the selection, training, monitoring and support of host families, as is the case in many of these countries, which have, precisely, high rates of family reception. For all this, we affirm the full availability of the Left Block to contribute to proposals in this area, in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u5	Mrs Laura Magalhães of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are called again—and well! — to discuss the issue of family reception. This is a very important matter for the PSD. In fact, it was with a Government of the PSD and the CDS and the abstention of the other parliamentary groups that was covered by the law that family reception should be privileged to the detriment of residential reception.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u8	However, in Portugal, against all the scientific guidelines, only 3 % of the children in employment are in family care, a situation that is completely disparate from the international landscape, where there are countries where the rate is around 80 % and 90 %. For us, for the PSD, this can only embarrass the Portuguese state. Unfortunately, this Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the PCP and the Left Block, has done nothing strictly to reverse this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u10	On the contrary, we have come to the summit to see a Secretary of State doubting good professional practices and to label these families with the need for supervision. No, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these families who, altruistically, show themselves available to help other families who are at risk biopsychosocial do not need supervision, they need, yes, training,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u11	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u12	... training, supervision and monitoring.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u14	The PSD has repeatedly questioned the government and nothing remains. The lack of regulation of the law is a serious situation. The regulation, at the will of this government, has not yet come out of the drawer. This is a unique and exclusive competence of this government and this action is not conditioning — and much! — the good practices of those who are working in the field. With regard to the draft resolution under discussion, as regards the promotion of concrete measures to encourage family reception, the PSD is fully behind it. In fact, the PSD has presented a bill that is currently under discussion in the field of specialty, where these measures, together with many others, are envisaged to be expressed in law and not only in a recommendation to the government, because we believe that this should be the way. However, we draw attention to the part called « implementation of an action plan ». Yes, there must be a clear and unequivocal bet on family reception, but it cannot be by means of decrees or budget allocation and, yes, by being the best option for that particular child. More than follow the project of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa, which we know has a very worthy project, ready to start, there is a need for a greater commitment in the scientific reception, including in the selection, training and monitoring of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u15	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u16	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that there are injustices that can and should be corrected from the outset, and this is one of them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u17	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of family reception has been effectively discussed and addressed at various times in the Assembly of the Republic, and the CFP would like to begin by reaffirming what it had already had opportunity to say at the different times when we discussed this issue. In other words, the removal of children and young people from their family of origin and their natural family must always be the last step to take — we must not fail to say this when we discuss these matters — when all the other measures have been exhausted and when there is no other possible answer. The human and material resources needed to accompany and intervene with the families of origin of these children and young people at risk or at risk must also be guaranteed. In addition, human and material means should be guaranteed to monitor and monitor different placement measures, and the CFP has also stated that, in the measures to distance children and young people from their families of origin, institutionalization should, indeed, always be the last resort to be adopted. This monitoring and monitoring of both institutions and host families must have the necessary means to ensure that children and young people are adequately monitored and protected in all areas and in all their life contexts. We understand that human resources, material resources and also financial resources must be guaranteed so that the solution of these host families can be effectively implemented and can take place. We do not ignore the whole of the studies that have been developed on this subject, which point to host families as a solution that ultimately guarantees the best subjective well-being of children and young people who end up with this placement measure. Of course, this means that the Assembly of the Republic should reflect on all this matter, as it has been doing. As regards the proposal which the CDS brings here, there are some comments that we must also make, in particular in its resolution. Decisions on the best measure to be taken or on measures to be taken are, in our view, the technicians and the courts who decide on this matter and must not, at any time, replace the role of the Assembly of the Republic. It is up to the Government to ensure that the solution of host families has all the conditions to be adopted, when necessary and when so decided by those in law. We also believe that the State in this area must assume all its responsibilities, not transferring them to others, and therefore must guarantee all the conditions for this placement measure to be effectively implemented and monitored. This is a primary responsibility of the State from which it cannot be resigned. Regarding family allowance, the PCP defends its universality and that this is a right of the child. So if the bills that the PCP brought to this House several times on this matter had been approved, this problem would not even arise for these children and for these young people. We will not imperil the initiative presented by the CDS, but, as Mr President of the CDS knows, there are a number of subjects, including CDS projects that are under discussion in the field.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u19	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u20	I'm done, Mr. President. We understand that it would be positive and very useful for this initiative to join those that are already under discussion in the specialty, so that the reflection could be in depth and so that the set of entities that are being called upon to pronounce themselves on this matter could also decide on these proposals which the CDS here presents in the form of a draft resolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u21	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the CDS for bringing to debate this matter of child protection and, in this case, the family reception which is of the utmost importance. We would like to reiterate that the application of the family care measure by the Child and Youth Protection Commission or by the court, to whom it is responsible to direct and control its implementation, implies the withdrawal of the child to his or her family of origin and his/her placement in a family which guarantees him/her safe, with adequate care, affection, competent education, with a view to its full development in the light of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The first amendment to the Protection Act in 2015 removed the predictability of the child's return to his or her biological family as a condition for the application of family care and introduced a special preference for family care for children up to 6 years of age, so the new regulation of this protection measure is urgently needed. This new regulation, bearing in mind the need to awaken the social awareness and sensitivity and to encourage the social and solidarity responsibility of all families to be foster families, aims, first of all, to safeguard the child and to provide a qualified and quality family welcome, where, as already mentioned, the training, selection and follow-up of host families is essential. The successive Governments of the Socialist Party have always built up the promotion of children's rights and their protection as central to their political action. It was also with a Government of the Socialist Party that, in 2008, the measures in the natural environment of life were regulated, as well as family reception, in compliance with the directives set out in Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September, in the view of the prevalence of the best interests of the child. It was also with the aim of strengthening the policies for the protection of children that this Government created a working group, consisting of Casa Pia, Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa and the Institute of Social Security, which has no responsibility to draw up the national and integrated family reception programme, whose conclusions and proposals are being examined. The final draft legislation, the draft decree-law on the system for the implementation of family reception in compliance with the 2015 legislation is already in place. We are therefore working in an integrated way and at the same time precisely regulating this important and relevant child protection and promotion measure. It is in this humanist context — indeed, in the field of the recommendations of the Council of Europe and its strategy for the rights of children, 2016 / 2020 — that this Parliamentary Group has presented a bill on this subject and that the Government is regulating family reception, because the Socialist Party has always guided its intervention and action for the dignity of the human person, in particular of any child who is vulnerable and who requires special protection by the State. Thus, we understand that the draft resolution of the CDS today under discussion, worthy of its purposes, appears to be a reduction in relation to substantive and integrated work that is being developed in terms of the future national and integrated programme of family reception, not contributing in a structured and coherent manner to those who are the objectives of the proposers and is omitted when it comes to cooperation agreements, devalue its extension and the clear reinforcement that has taken place in the coverage of social responses, which has, in fact, been translated into 461 agreements in 2018, benefiting about 5600 users, in a total investment of 20, 7 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the effectiveness of social intervention in childhood is achieved only within the framework of an integrated articulation and coordination of various sectoral actions, i.e. a strategy of intervention specific to childhood and youth that mobilizes all — parents, educators responsible for the promotion and protection of children and young people — and that accounts for the different areas of governance: health, education, social action and justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u23	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u24	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. This concerted action is in place by the Government and, with the support of this Parliamentary Group, has been put into effect, always aiming at the child's prevailing interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u25	To close this debate, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I thank the speeches of all parliamentary groups, which, if not unanimous, reflect a great consensus and shared sensitivity on this matter. I would like to take advantage of this final intervention to leave two notes which seem decisive to me: firstly, this draft resolution does not intend to discuss any of the criteria that are already reflected in the law, that is, we all agree that the withdrawal of a child from the natural environment of life is, in principle and at the beginning, inconvenient, unwanted and only to occur in extreme situations; secondly, we all agree that, among the measures of reception, when it is considered that it is in the interest of that child to withdraw it from the natural environment of life, family reception should be privileged. What is incomprehensible is that, as we agree on this matter, the data on this reality are so shocking and diametrically opposed to the agreement reached here. How is it possible that only 3 % of children who are target of a placement measure are not removed from institutionalization? Therefore, there are times when we need to express consensus and agreement, we need to move forward with concrete steps, and that is what the CDS has done. The CDS hopes that we will be consistent when the proposals are adopted. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are IPSSs who are available to select families, to help them in training, to monitor them in the implementation of family reception, but social security does not leave, even if these IPSSs are available to do so without financial compensation. There are courts that decree that the interest of that child in particular is family care and social security does not allow this to be implemented. In Lisbon, there is not only one child in family care. This is really shocking! It is the violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child! We are talking about dramatic situations for the child and absolutely decisive for its growth and development.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u27	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u28	So what the country expects of us is that we are able to put aside party differences and that, in the best interest of those children, we understand ourselves. That's what the CDS here proposes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u29	We will move on to the next item on our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bills Nos 963 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of health and safety at work of security forces and services and 1063 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Improvement of health conditions, in the working environment, of forces and security services. To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is no longer the first, the second, or even the third time that the PCP Parliamentary Group brings the matter of health and safety at work in the security forces and services to the Assembly of the Republic. We insist that it is not conceivable for the CFP that the security forces and services in our country do not have a legal system of prevention and safety at work and assume all the consequences that this entails. For the PCP it is clear that security forces and services such as the PSP (PSP), the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the PJ ( Judicial Police ), the Maritime Police or the Prison Guard cannot, for the risks they run, continue beyond all the legislation on health and safety at work. As we stated in the past, " irrespective of the assessment that each party makes of the nature, missions and assignments of each security force and service, we will certainly agree: the professionals of these forces and services have a profession with high risks that it is important to beware. Do not keep on seeking. ” We reiterate: "The proof of the high risks these professionals are subject to, from the very high levels of pressure and stress, is seen, among other indicators, in the dramatic number of suicides occurring in the security forces and services. To understand the size of the problem in PSP and GNR in the last 10 years, 95 professionals have committed suicide. Despite these warnings and the dramatic consequences that the absence of effective health and safety mechanisms at work mean for the professionals of the security forces and services, PS, PSD and CDS have rejected the legislative initiative we presented here, and thus together with the Government, responsible for nothing significant to evolve in this matter. We therefore insist on the need to act. For the CFP it is clear that the establishment of safety and health conditions at work for these professionals, in addition to being a fundamental aspect to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the public service they provide, is the main tool in the prevention of occupational risks and in the fight against occupational disability, aggravated when it comes to high risk activity, as is the case in police activity. Among other measures, with this bill, the CFP aims to create mechanisms for identifying and evaluating professional risks; establish the obligation to adopt measures to combat and prevent such risks; create information and training mechanisms and a set of obligations and rights, always with the involvement of their professionals. For the PCP, it is unacceptable to maintain the current situation in which security forces and services professionals work. It is time to pass on the declarations of appreciation and consideration, which we all have by the security forces and services professionals, to provide adequate safety and health conditions so that these professionals can perform their duties. The PCP is, as it has always been, with professionals for more and better conditions for the exercise of their profession, with the conviction that this will result in more and better forces and security services for the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u31	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conditions of the mission carried out by security forces such as contact with potentially traumatic situations, risk of death and high levels of stress and anxiety require constant follow-up. Several studies show that, as professional demands increase, there may be situations of reduced professional performance and motivation for tasks, increasing the exhaustion and appearance of burnout syndrome that, within the limit, may lead to suicide. Regarding this, the numbers are dramatic: 137 agents ended their own lives between 2000 and 2017, being the suicide rate in PSP and GNR almost twice as much as in the general population. This situation requires a clear response and therefore we propose that these professionals should be assured of periodic health examinations for the evaluation of physical and psychic fitness, as well as guaranteed access to preventive medical actions, establishing that these should occur periodically never more than three years, rather than the current five years. The NAP has already submitted two draft resolutions, which were rejected, aimed at strengthening the psychological monitoring of the GNR and the police. Let us hope that an important step can be taken today, ensuring that these professionals perform functions in conditions that safeguard their health and safety.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u33	We are now discussing these legislative initiatives. Before giving the floor to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, I would like to ask the parliamentary groups to sign up. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health and safety conditions in the work of the security forces and services is a topic on which the CFP insists for the second time in this legislature, and rightly at least in the objective. The health and safety conditions at the work of the security forces and services are very weak, we have no doubt about this. There are teams where it rains as in the street; there are cold water baths that the police are forced to take because the boilers are broken; there are cars that almost only have steering wheels and wheels, and little more. We all know this permanent misfortune that exists in the security forces and services, and I would be here all morning challenging the rosary of the misfortunes that we all know, but which unfortunately take a long time to resolve. But more serious than that, it adds the dramatic suicide rate. We all know that in this profession the suicide rate is higher than in any other profession. It is a reality that the CDS has not been tired of reporting and actively trying to counter, defending more and better means for security forces and services. For this reason, the CFP actually has a reason for the objective. However, in the opinion of the CDS, as we have also said two years ago, there is much less reason in how to achieve it. As we said two years ago, we will not fail to reach this initiative, because it seems important to us that we start to "start rock" and discuss it seriously, but we have kept the reservations we left two years ago and that during the discussion on specialty should be duly scaled up. From that point on, we have the question of the lack of extensive discussion with the lack of listening to security forces and services. We know that there has been a public hearing on the suicide rate, but on the rest, on technical issues they have not been dealt with with by the security forces and services, and this is a very technical matter that needs weighting. In fact, it is not at all that the discussion on this matter has been taking place for several years and has not yet been implemented precisely because of the difficulties in which it is going. There are very strict rules in your bill because it is a highly hierarchical structure and therefore it brings difficulties, so we need to study ways of flexible and adapt to the reality of this profession, which is quite different from other professions. Safety and health conditions in security forces and services have very different technical specificities from other professions, including within their own security forces and services. You know as well as I do that every security force and service has different forms of organization, different forms of operation, different contexts of action and what is easily adapted to each other is not adapted to each other. Therefore, this generalization can bring complications, and this has to be properly guarded. In addition, Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament. Members, there is the problem of redundancy of the various standards, which are already repeating the general regime enshrined and therefore it is necessary not to introduce more entropies and confusions which, rather than aiding, may harm. We are available to check this matter in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u35	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u36	I will finish, Mr. President. But no less important is the financial impact and the costs these measures have. We know that costs cannot be ignored, not only by the enforceability or lack of enforceability of this implementation, but also by the fact that we are in the middle of a budget year and there is clearly the so-called'standard brake', which does not allow this discussion to be done now without the cost being taken into account. That is why serious reflection is required and the CDS is willing to do so, so you want the PS bench, which you didn't want to do in the past, but we hope you will now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u37	Mr Rui Cruz, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: As many numbers as the government throws hand to deny the evidence, the raw reality emerges with numerous examples. The truth, as it is, is far from the imaginative vision and the fantastic reality of official speech. Behind that half-twenty, carefully selected to paint a colorful picture, remains the rule and a number of cases that, in their wide range, define well the bad state to which the public services arrived. Agents and police are well aware of the outrageous conditions in which they work, the lack of health conditions of the buildings or the lack of means for, in safety and health conditions, the proper performance of the State functions they have taken on. It is true that these rights and guarantees are, in most cases, dispersed in the legislation, in regulations which refer to other standards, some which are only transitional, improper and subsidiaryly applied, with reservations about the full applicability of these rules to such specific public functions, even with doubts and remaining entropies, which are themselves of a regime that has not been designed for public functions. The specificity of these public functions seems to us to be a creditor of special care, more than the solely enshrined in the Constitution and the Labour Code, no less than that generally provided for in the Legal Regime of the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work. After three resolutions of this House and one of the Council of Ministers itself, 'little or nothing has been changed to improve the safety and health conditions in the work of the personnel of the security forces and services', as the promoter of this initiative rightly points out in his contribution that he or she is also confident of the government that he or she has done little or nothing. We accompany all legislative initiatives aimed, in a fair and balanced manner, at ensuring a socially dignified organization of work, always and in particular when it comes to high risk activities, as is the case in police activity; always and in particular when it comes to such a sensitive and decisive area of the rule of law, as is the case with internal security, with reservations, it is true, but duly justified and even recognised by the promoter himself, since it is not ignored that the specificities of police activity will, to some extent, force the adaptation of certain provisions. And as the third pillar of this government and the parliamentary majority shouts out very loud: « What is not sustainable is the situation we are living today! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Yeah, well, it's time to rebuild what's gone wrong. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u39	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognises the relevance of the issue of the draft laws of the CFP and the NAP in view. However, and as has been said here, this is obviously a recycling of similar initiatives already presented and rejected in this Parliament. We need to make it clear that, in our view, the PCP bill is not adjusted to the regulatory framework of the security forces. This bill, to be approved and implemented, will have a high impact on security forces, both on the organizational and human resources management aspects. This issue, in our view, lacks much more depth, which will have to be done with the necessary intervention by the security forces themselves and not by their wake. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: GNR and PSP already have internal solutions to promote health and safety at work. The draft law of the PCP under review is limited to transposing the general law, which regulates the reality of companies to the security forces, which proves to be inadequate to the reality of them, not safeguarding their specificity and nature. It happens that security forces and services have different forms of organisation and operation, as well as different assignments, different contexts of action, different regulatory diplomas, from their respective organic laws to their own staff statutes. It is in this context and in its particularities that should be analysed beyond the various existing domains, domains such as accidents in service, disease care, medical support for operational activity, occupational diseases or the control of physical fitness and health, both when they enter the security forces and during their stay, and when the professionals of their respective security forces and services leave. These are factors that should have been taken into account and which, in our understanding, were not. If it is true that the GNR military and PSP officers with police functions are excluded from the general system of health and safety promotion at work, this is due to the specificity of their functions. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] No, of course not. The bill does not meet the specificities of the police in general and the security forces, which often act in dangerous environments, preventing, interrupting or helping to punish dangerous, illegal or unpredictable behaviors. On the subject of suicides, which is largely focused on the explanatory statement of both draft laws, it should be noted that by this Government a suicide prevention plan in the Security Forces has already been approved, with the temporary horizon of 2016 - 2020, of which measures of prevention, intervention, rehabilitation and evaluation tending to ensure continued psychological support to the police elements, as well as a suicide prevention study, which lists a set of measures in the areas of psychology and psychiatry that are in some way already being implemented. Therefore, Mr President, and to conclude, I would make it clear that, in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, there would be problems with the implementation of these projects in view of the legal framework of the security forces, their own organization and operation, considering what is already in force, why we disagree with these initiatives, and why we cannot follow them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u41	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that all workers must be entitled to protection at work in health, safety and hygiene conditions. We know that this right is not always guaranteed under all conditions and is not always implemented as it should be, and we know that it is especially true for the elements of security forces and services. We also know how health and safety conditions at work are essential for the prevention of risks of accidents at work, physical illness and even the psychological forum. This is a profession that involves increased risks, has its own specificities, is extremely demanding, and that is why we have also been repeatedly alerted in this House to the high rates, which have already been mentioned here, of suicide and attempts to commit suicide of the elements of these security forces and services. We also know that ensuring the health and safety conditions for these elements of the security forces and services is also ensuring the protection and safety of populations and the exercise of a higher quality public service. The specificities of this profession have been an argument to furnish these professionals with the protection guaranteed by measures to promote health and safety at work. We believe that these specificities are not sufficient, nor should they be, to not guarantee these professionals all the conditions that are foreseen for other professionals in other areas and sectors, so we follow the justice contained in these projects, as we have also done two years ago regarding the PCP bill. We also stress the same thing that we did two years ago in relation to the need to address some of the recommendations that emerged in the various opinions that relate, in particular with the definition of the supervisory entity, with the need to give the same space to the psychologist and to give the same importance that is the emotional and psychological health that is normally guaranteed to physical health. Anyway, we believe these are valid projects, they have all justice and, therefore, the Left Block accompanies the proposals contained in these two bills. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u43	To close this agenda item, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to start by welcoming the representative structures of the different security forces and services. Its presence here well demonstrates the importance that this legislative initiative has for professionals who carry out such an important mission in our country. There are three arguments that have been used. First, that this bill had no listening, it did not have the participation of security forces and services. In the construction of the diploma, the CFP has heard the representative structures of the security forces and services, we have promoted several meetings, public hearings and, therefore, if the other parliamentary groups have not heard anyone about this matter it is the responsibility of these parliamentary groups, it is not the CFP, because the CFP has done its work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u46	Second argument: that there are adjustments that need to be made according to this or that force and security service. All right, we are available to discuss and make the necessary adjustments, but these are excuses for bad payers, because what they really want is to lead the legislative initiative and not promote any improvement measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u48	Third argument: that there are already mechanisms in security forces and services. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, but this argument is ridiculous, since what exists today is clear and ostensibly insufficient for the needs of security forces and services. We have an inexplicable situation, which is the absence of a legal framework, and we are available to do so. PSD and CDS-PP often accuse the CFP Parliamentary Group of supporting the government, which, they say, does not solve this, that and that other problem. What is happening today — and the security forces and services professionals can then prove by voting on the initiative — is that, in fundamental matters for the lives of workers, who enables those who support the government not to solve specific problems of professionals, of workers in our country are the PSD and the CDS-PP. In fact, it is the PSD and the CDS who, with their abstention, make an initiative that is fair and necessary in our country. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u49	Thus, the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos 963 / XIII / 3 is concluded. a ( PCP ) and 1063 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN). We moved on to the general debate of the Bills Nos 935 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Disincentives the use of microplastics in current-use products, such as cosmetics and hygiene products, in order to safeguard ecosystems and public health, and 751 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Determines the prohibition on the production and marketing of detergents and cosmetics containing microplastics, together with the Resolution Project No 1883 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a scientific study that affects the impacts of microplastics on the environment, food chain and human health, and also with, in general, Law Projects No 1060 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — prohibits the marketing and import of cosmetics and hygiene products containing microplastics and regulates their presence in other products, and 1061 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements a programme to reduce the use of microplastics in cosmetics and hygiene and cleaning products. To present the Greens initiative, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have already brought a number of legislative initiatives to the Assembly of the Republic about an imperative, which is the reduction of waste. Within our strategy, let us say, proposals for waste reduction, we have brought here a number of proposals for reducing packaging and also for reducing the use of plastic. Let us say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the bill presented today by the Greens is precisely part of this package, let us say, the reduction of waste and the danger, in particular, of many waste for the environment. in this sense, The Greens now present a bill that discourages the use of microplastics in current-use products, such as cosmetics and hygiene products, in order to safeguard ecosystems and public health. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some parties in this House who tend to make the consumer or taxpayer pay more for everything that has to do with waste. Now, it is time for, once and for all, we also make the market a contribution and respond to those who are the objectives for better environmental standards. I think the Members and the Members. Members must be aware that the market, which is offered to the consumer, cannot be left out. Now, for this matter, many hygiene and cosmetic products, such as foliants, masks or bases, contain microplastics and, after their use, when people are going to remove them and lay them down by the pipe below, those microparticles, in the ETAR, are not kept and are not dissolved in water. And what happens is that they are released directly into free space. Then there comes that famous concern, from all of us already known, that our seas are loaded with plastic microparticles and others that are not actually microparticles but that flood our seas and that there are studies that have already told us that if by 2050 nothing is done strictly and if we keep this pace we will have more plastic than fish in our seas. Well, this is deeply worrisome. In addition, these microparticles enter very quickly, as it is easy to understand, into the food chain. It is that many species in the marine environment end up ingesting these microparticles and this then also leads to direct consequences for human health through the food chain. There are, therefore, several concerns that need to be addressed here. in this sense, what The Greens have come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic is that a programme for the eradication of microplastics in products such as cosmetics and hygiene products is created until 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u51	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u52	Mr President, I would like you to discount the time I've spent within 2 minutes of my closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u53	It is not possible, Mrs. Deputy. That 2-minute time is autonomous.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u54	All right, Mr. President. So, I'm really gonna finish. On the other hand, we propose that, for these products, there should be an identifying label for the absence of microplastics and that there should also be a good awareness-raising campaign for consumers, as many of them do not know what I have just mentioned. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear, to your benefit, that the autonomy of the two minutes is not consumable at the initial stage of the debate. You now have the floor to present the NAP initiatives, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, there is no doubt that the pollution generated by plastic waste is serious, massive and knows no borders. This ecological disaster has led several international organisations, including the European Commission, to develop strategies to minimize their impact on the environment. However, there is still much to be done. Recently, researchers from the Interdisciplinary Centre for Marine and Environmental Research (CIIMAR) concluded that the amount of plastic particles in the Douro estuary is greater than the number of fish larvae that inhabit that ecosystem. These data are alarming. But more data and more studies are needed to know in depth the impact of plastic waste and microplastics on the food chain, human health and ecosystems. We therefore propose that the Government prepare a study on national territory to determine the impacts of microplastics and, as a result of these data, develop a national strategy for its fight and mitigation. In parallel, and working on the problem, we also propose that the Government follow up on the recommendations of the European Commission and prohibit the production and marketing of hygiene products, detergents and cosmetics containing microplastics in Portugal. The market will, of course, respond with adaptation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u57	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The massive presence of microplastics is in fact an emerging problem that poses various problems to public health and environmental protection and which exponentially exacerbates the already alarming pollution by plastics in the oceans. These plastic microparticles end up serving as food to zooplankton and other organisms and consequently enter the trophic chain, being a risk to biodiversity but also to human food itself. Microplastics still absorb other types of pollutants, which further aggravates the risks of these particles. These particles, less than 5 mm, form mainly by the degradation of plastic, but also there are those in cosmetic and hygiene products, which incorporate them through microspheres that end up spilling into the oceans through sewage systems. Synthetic clothing can also release, especially when washed, these fibers contain microplastics. There is already a variety of scientific evidence that denotes the massive and omnipresent problem of microplastics in the ecosystem. In October 2018, a survey of people living in Finland, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Italy, Poland, Russia, Japan and Austria reveals that microplastics are omnipresent in the food chain. The study discovers that this is due to the intake of seafood but also water from plastic bottles and packaged foods. in all, nine different types of plastics were found. Earlier, another study detected the presence of plastic microparticles in table salt for sale in eight countries. And this research studied 17 salt marks, including three Portuguese brands. More recently, CIIMAR, in Porto, found that in the Douro estuary there are more microplastic particles than fish larvae, saying the researchers surprised with the presence of these microplastics in abundance. It is therefore urgent to resolve the problem and to end the plastic deposit in the oceans. We have presented measures in this regard, but the seriousness and size of this microplastic problem requires legislative measures specifically for this product, urgent measures that limit its entry into the ecosystem. We therefore propose to prohibit the marketing and import of products of current use for cosmetics and hygiene containing microplastics by 2020 to end a use that is not essential in products of regular use. Only in this way do we find it possible to drastically reduce production and release in the microplastic environment. This initiative also proposes, as a fundamental information measure to consumers, that all products containing microplastics be identified and also proposes the design of a plan for the eradication of products containing these types of compounds. However, the potential need for use of these compounds is safeguarded, in a confined and low quantity, in contexts of medicine and science. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion is not new. On 14 February, on the initiative of the Left Block, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 102 / 2018 was approved, which recommends to the Government the assessment of the impact and origin of microplastics on the environment and food.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u59	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u60	But so far, nothing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. And we can't be soft or moderate with this threat. Yes, radical and urgent measures are needed to eradicate this threat. That's what we propose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u61	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a reality that marine pollution by microplastics has several origins, some indirect ones, by degradation of larger pieces of plastic, and other direct ones, by microplastics that are added to cosmetics and other personal hygiene products, such as soaps, sfoliants, toothpastes, etc. These products will, as mentioned above, stop to sewage and there is no capacity on the part of wastewater treatment stations ( ETAR ) to retain them. It is true that the sea has no physical frontiers and therefore this problem must be examined within the framework of an international environment, especially in the European framework, since we belong to the European Union, and in particular in our perspective, in what is the European Plastic Strategy, which was presented in January 2018. Portugal has already taken steps in this area since the start of the green tax reform in 2013, but of course it can do more, especially with regard to microplastics resulting from direct incorporation into the marine environment, fulfilling the principle of 'global thinking, acting locally' and giving our contribution. Microplastics with this origin represent only 1, 5 % to 4 % of the total destination of the marine environment in Europe. However, we must not disregard these figures. Therefore, the CDS presents this bill to establish a program for reducing microplastics in cosmetic and hygiene products, which should be gradually and established in conjunction with the industry, which is already doing so in a process of self-regulation. For this, it is essential that there is a wide dissemination and information campaign for consumers who often do not know that these products contain microplastics. And, so that they can make a responsible and informed choice, we also propose that an identification stamp be created so that they can make that choice, if that which must be certified by a certification entity. These are the proposals presented by the CDS here today. With regard to the NAP and BE projects, we believe that they impose too short deadlines that seem to us not to allow industry to adapt in sufficient time. however, we will not unfeasible your discussion and are available to review them in the specialty. The draft resolution submitted by the NAP comes a little to the meeting of the so-called Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, which has already been adopted. In our view, however, it makes no sense to be creating additional efforts and even doing more work in relation to what is being done up to the European Union level, as this is being examined within the framework of the European Union. In any case, we will not make this project impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u63	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Environmental issues, social inequalities and sustainable development are the major challenges of the 21st century. The problem of the spread of microplastics in the environment and the marine environment, as well as the serious consequences that this spread may have for many species, are now internationally recognised, particularly by the United Nations environmental assembly. I am in favour of initiatives to raise citizens, businesses and government awareness of this important problem. I therefore welcome and support the initiatives of The Greens, the NAP and the CDS, which aim, respectively, to discourage the use of microplastics in current-use products, which the Government is studying its impact on the environment and the food chain and implements a programme to reduce its use. There are, however, two other projects, NAP and BE, which aim to prohibit the marketing and import of certain cosmetic and hygiene products containing microplastics. in the globalised world in which we live, and in particular within the European Union, it is impractical and unrealistic to impose bans of this kind at national level. in this case, and as Gomes Canotilho says, « the protection of the environment should not be made at the level of isolated legal systems ( state or non-state ), but at the level of political, international and supranational legal systems ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u65	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today, once again, an issue which has been the subject of concern and action by the PSD and which also falls within the framework of the circular economy, for which we have been very much beaten.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u68	It states the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 66. the, which we all have the right to a healthy and ecologically balanced environment of life, but also the duty to defend, due to the duty of the political decision-makers and the State. It is a fact that much has been done, but it is possible and it is necessary to do more, from the outset because, when we talk about this issue, we cannot help but be frightened by the impressive amount of plastic in the oceans, whose microplastics, as we know, have also entered the food chain. in this context, we have no doubt that we need to walk to ensure that all packages are recyclable, the consumption of single-use plastics is reduced and the use of microplastics is restricted. Now, about the use of microplastics, the projects under discussion have different degrees of intensity. If the Greens and the CDS-PP advocate the adoption of measures leading to the reduction — I insist, the reduction — of the use of microplastics in cosmetics and hygiene and cleaning products, the projects of the Left Block and the PAN will clearly go further: that of the PAN simply prohibits its production and marketing and that of the Left Block prohibits the marketing and import of cosmetics and hygiene products containing microplastics, but, curiously, it no longer prohibits its production or export. On the initiative of the Left Block, it should also be noted that Parliament has already rejected a draft resolution of the Left Block itself in February last year in this same sense. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD endorses the concerns that are present in all initiatives — I insist, it endorses the concerns that are present in all initiatives — but we cannot help but wonder where we can go at this very moment. How far can we go at this exact moment? The truth is that there are transitional costs that are not negligible and the deadlines for the transition arrangements provided for in the projects of the Left Block and the PAN, frankly, seem too short to us. Therefore, for us this circumstance is crucial for us not to be able to follow these initiatives in the case of the Left Block and the PAN ; as for the rest of the Green Party and the CDS-PP, they will have the favourable vote of the PSD Parliamentary Group. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u69	Mrs Eurídice Pereira of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : We are talking about microplastics that are intentionally added to products. We are talking about a problem that is not « micro», because the problem with plastics is all but that. Therefore, it unites us with the identification of the problem, its size and the necessity to act. It must be clarified, however, that we understand how correct the interpretation of the European Commission when it assesses that the prohibition measures implemented or envisaged in several Member States, in the field of the use of microplastics in products such as cleaning or cosmetics, can result in fragmentation of the single market. This position was taken at the time of the approach of the European Strategy for Plastics in the Circular Economy, a theme in which Portugal is also making its way, having seen the Government publish in December 2017 its Plan of Action for Circular Economy in Portugal, where the subject under consideration is obviously welcoming. In fact, and precisely for that reason, the Commission has asked the European Chemicals Agency to review the scientific basis for the adoption of regulatory measures to restrict the use of microplastics. A European strategy for plastics is therefore under way, which already includes specific measures for'micro' and is in preparation for restriction processes. That is why our understanding — which it gives to the government — is appropriate for the national strategy to be adopted in relation to microplastics to be aligned with the European strategy. All the more so that appropriate measures may be being adopted, the aim is to harmonise and regulate at European Union level for quite a short time, and for example in the fishing gears containing plastic, a subject referred to in one of the initiatives under consideration. It also seems to us to be advised that the creation of a specific label identifying microplastic products, also addressed in another initiative, is based on a cost-benefit analysis in the context of the single market. It is our understanding, in short, that the agreed path is the most appropriate, even because the problem of marine waste is cross-border, appealing to joint actions and solutions. It should also be noted that by 2020 the European Union will provide EUR 100 million for research actions in areas such as the development of smarter and more recyclable plastics, more effective recycling processes and the removal of hazardous substances and pollutants from recycled plastics. In short, the Government is working on this, without losing sight of the European strategy, and we, the PS Parliamentary Group, consider this option appropriate, i.e. the strategy under way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u71	Mrs. Angela Moreira from the PCP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion on plastic waste, more specifically microplastics, is relevant and the concern about this matter is justified, considering the difficulty of eliminating and biodegradation of these products and the impact these waste has on human health and ecosystems. The CFP is always available to discuss solutions that aim at minimizing and altering consumption patterns, in a logic that effectively promotes a policy that seems environmentally correct and never in a logic to pay to pollute or penalise the consumer. I just want to remember that, in the waste management hierarchy, we should encourage waste recycling, but also take into account that, before recycling, there is reduction and reuse. That is why the CFP insists on the need for policies aimed at reducing production, opting for more sustainable production, with more degraded or more easily recyclable products, increasing recycling potential, eliminating products with microplastics and oxodegradables, and simultaneously promoting an active collection of plastics in the environment. What the PCP defends, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of policies that punish consumers, it is legislate to promote innovation in production, along with a regulatory approach as opposed to the market approach. Obviously, we agree that this is a problem that has to have a deeper discussion and reflection and in accordance with reality. With regard to the proposals under discussion today, the CFP accompanies a large part of the points put forward, but there are others who question us. All proposals are directed towards the use of microplastics, but they mainly affect a type of product, when the problem with the PCP is much more comprehensive. We follow the initiatives that aim to discourage the use and marketing of microplastics, however they only focus on cosmetics and hygiene products, which seems to us to be reducing. We also welcome the proposals that aim at informing and raising consumer awareness without penalising the consumer, giving the Government the responsibility to create a programme for the eradication of this product. The proposal for the use of an identifying seal of the absence of microplastics in packages of hygiene products and cosmetics marketed in national territory has our consent. We see, however, with some apprehension, the proposals that affect the prohibition of hygiene products that contain microplastics and which simultaneously require the identification of products with this material, which seems to us to be inconsistencies, since we know that all plastic products can generate microplastics. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u74	To close the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make it clear that the Greens are proposing, through this bill, a set of measures to reduce microplastics, including intervention in current-use products such as cosmetics and other hygiene products, but obviously with a view to their eradication. however, the most incredible intervention in this debate was the PS, which came to the Assembly of the Republic, saying that Portugal cannot do anything, that we have to be waiting for the European Union and European initiatives and that we must remain quiet, waiting for what others will do and decide for us. I think this abdication of sovereignty is already going a little to the extreme and far too far, Mrs Eurídice Pereira. There seems to me to be an exaggeration about this reading. I ask you: whatever you think is being done strategically in the European Union, what prevents Portugal from creating a consumer awareness programme? What prevents Portugal from, for example, determining that an identification stamp is placed on products which do not contain microplastics, in order to inform the consumer, so that he can make a responsible consumption? Responsible consumption means being informed to be able to make the option. I think nothing prevents him, as it is obvious! Or what prevents the Portuguese Government from promoting a programme on the eradication of microplastics? Mrs Deputies, in fact, could not have invented better, but this abdication of sovereignty is already beginning to reach the extreme — nothing can be done in Portugal, because everything has to be determined from the European Union! Is that what you're talking about? It can't be! We have an ecological principle, which is to think globally, act locally, and we cannot abdicate from taking the measures necessary to generate better environmental standards, better quality in our ecosystems, better quality of life for our people and safety in our territory. In fact, it seems to me that the Socialist Party is resigning from this matter. I hope that by the time of the vote — for what I have already understood — the Socialist Party can still change its position, and then not do as it did at other times.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u76	The Socialist Party does what it can to understand, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u77	Surely you do what you understand, but I can also make the appeal you understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u78	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u79	As I said, I hope you don't make the same figure at other times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u80	Figure makes Mrs. Member with that language!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u81	... when he sees that he went the wrong way and repents of his sense of vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u82	We move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 488 / XIII / 3. a ( Paulo Alexandre Silva Almeida et al.) — Recognition of the editions of the Portuguese Championship held between 1922 and 1938. I will not be surprised if the House says that the Bureau does not record entries on this point, so I ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to begin by complimenting the petitioners, who present to us their desire to see 17 recognized editions of the Portuguese Championship. I would also like to say, as we have stated at the hearing at the time of the examination of this petition in the respective Commission, that, even considering the functions and powers delegated to the sports federations, this is an action and an initiative which cannot go beyond the Portuguese Football Federation ( FPF ), which has already had the opportunity to pronounce itself on this matter. The Portuguese Football Federation went to 12. the Commission, in May 2018, following a request for information on this petition, to inform that it has decided to set up an analysis commission, consisting of researchers from the area of law and history of different universities in our country, with the aim of examining and recognizing whether the evidence identified in this petition is equivalent to cup, championship or both. in this sense, we understand that it is to wait for the completion of the work that is being developed to, before this conclusion and due basis, to proceed also to the analysis of the matter that is put to us in the petition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u84	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would also like to congratulate the petitioners. This is of course a matter with a specificity which goes far beyond what this Parliament has to do. This is a sport matter and related to sports competitions which, in accordance with the law, are within the scope of the autonomy of the association movement and, in particular, of the Portuguese Football Federation. more than it seems to arise from the title of the petition on the recognition of the championships of Portugal held between 1922 and 1938 of the football modality, is the award of titles that were made by these championships and the accounting or not of these titles, as then was done for other types of tests that were being carried out in Portugal. This is clearly the issue of the Portuguese Football Federation and what this House is up to is whether or not this Federation is dealing with. We are careful to know this through the Parliamentary Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, and we have been informed that the Portuguese Football Federation is doing this analysis to give a definitive answer to this question. in this sense, we understand that, as far as the Assembly of the Republic is concerned, which is to accompany the work of the federal movement, we have done our work, and we can from here testify to the petitioners that their claim is being treated at their own headquarters. As such, the role of Parliament is also fulfilled, which is to always treat with dignity all citizens who address us by exercising constitutional law. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u86	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 4400 petitioners who have submitted a petition to this House, in which they intend that, in 2021, when Portugal celebrates 100 years of national championships, there will also have to be 100 champions. According to them, the Portuguese Football Federation does not recognize the 17 editions of the Portuguese Championship, the only national evidence disputed between 1922 and 1938, giving as winners the Football Club of Porto and Sporting with four championships, Benfica and Belenenses with three, the Maritime, the Olhanense, the Carcavelinhos — today Atlético Clube of Portugal — with one championship each. There seems to be doubts, raising the question whether to qualify as a cup of Portugal or as a championship of Portugal. The Federation decided to set up an analysis committee, with researchers from several universities, to analyze this claim. In fact, this committee has met today and we hope that it will reach rapid conclusions. According to the legal regime of the federations, in this particular case the State delegate to the Portuguese Football Federation, the power to organise the championships, their regulations and also the allocation of national titles. from there the Assembly of the Republic has no power to decide on this matter, but naturally it hopes that the Federation will quickly clarify this situation so that there is no doubt about this issue of championships, so that the clubs will know whether they are national championships or whether they are cups of Portugal. Of course, this is a subject that has been very closely followed by social communication. We know that the sport phenomenon, particularly football, generates great passions and great follow-up by people. We have found that sports newspapers have a far greater circulation than other newspapers, hence the interest of this mode and the passion that it arouses, and therefore it is important to clarify this matter. The theme of petition, in addition to signatures, thus arouses much attention from the sports press and fashion. It is intended that the issue be clarified quickly and that the Government, through the Secretary of State, also proceed to the Federation for this purpose. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u88	For an intervention, Mr António Cardoso, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we wish to congratulate Mr. Paulo Alexandre Silva Almeida and the remaining 4500 subscribers of this petition. We welcome the initiative in which we request recognition of the editions of the Football Championship held between 1922 and 1938. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, football is a sporty mode that drags crowds, thousands or millions of followers, awakening in them unexplained passions. These passions generate enthusiasm that reaches their maximum exponent in obtaining titles. thus, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party gives the best attention to this petition, accompanying with particular interest the concerns expressed in it, seeking a response to the claims of its subscribers, who seek recognition of the editions of the Championship of Portugal from 1922 to 1938. Quoting the direction of the Portuguese Football Federation, this is a request where there are well-founded doubts about the nature of the competition in question, raising the question of whether such evidence should be qualified as a National Championship or as a Portugal Cup. After almost 100 years of the first edition of the 16 concerned, it is up to the Portuguese Football Federation to take the necessary steps to ascertain the truth of the facts mentioned. Requested for this purpose, the leadership of the Portuguese Football Federation informed 12. the Commission, of Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, which decided to establish an analysis committee, composed of researchers from the areas of law and history, belonging to the Universities of Porto, Coimbra and Lisbon. This analysis committee will propose that a decision be taken to recognise whether the evidence in question amounts to a cup, a championship or none of them, in order to be submitted to the General Assembly of the Portuguese Football Federation for definitive clarification whether the winners of the various editions of the Portuguese Championship should be considered national champions or winners of the Portuguese Cup. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group makes the following appeal: given the complexity of the initiative under consideration, the decision to be taken must be duly weighted, with exemption and rigour, in the search for sporting truth, in order to avoid the emergence of any controversy around a topic that should unite all football lovers, or that for this purpose the best practices followed internationally in the resolution of similar cases should be used. It is the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that, in respect of the powers conferred on the sports federations, the decision should be taken in the general assembly of the Socialist Party and that, unequivocally, it should be accepted and respected by all. I cannot conclude my speech without expressing my pride in following the request for historical truth of our football in the 1922 to 1938 editions at this plenary session. This pride is tied to a debt of gratitude I have for football, to whom I owe a large part of my academic training. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u90	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left or, firstly, to greet all petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic a petition in defence of historical truth, related to the Portuguese Championship between 1922 and 1938. The petition is based on the principle that there is a framework for a problem that is not solved by the Portuguese Football Federation, which is precisely the accounting of the Portuguese championships among the dates I mentioned. The Left Block Parliamentary Group follows the vision which has already been shared here. It is up to the Assembly of the Republic to follow the work that the Portuguese Football Federation itself has already decided to initiate just to make a review and a historical reading, with technicians and academics able to guarantee best international practices and, above all, to ensure that historical truth is also placed on the table and that it does not go unnoticed in the name of sporting truth and truth in the context of football. It is therefore up to the Assembly of the Republic to collect and receive the concerns of the petition in question and it is up to the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport to follow the work that the Federation and the working group that has been set up are currently doing. We hope that this working group will also follow international best practices. On behalf of the good relationship that the Assembly of the Republic has had with the Portuguese Football Federation, we can only, of course, follow the results that the Federation is presenting at the end of the work of the working group it created. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u92	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to the fifth item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 498 / XIII / 3. a ( Maria Isabel da Cruz Rodrigues Abelheira et al.) — Review of the curriculum of the discipline of Study of the Middle of 1. the cycle of basic education. Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, I comply with the 4802 subscribers to this petition and I greet in particular the students and teachers of the EB / JI Conde Dias Garcia School, who are in the galleries, and who, following and developing a project in the context of a contest in which they participated, have sparked the initiative. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, petitioners consider it essential to review the curriculum programme of the Mid-term Study discipline of 1. the cycle of basic education. They support their understanding because they consider the way it is shaped and distributed in the program the treatment of the theme regarding environmental education in its various aspects. In addition to wanting to see the general objectives reformulated, they intend that the specific themes that identify should be redistributed, highlighted and poured into different blocks of the various years of this cycle of teaching. The claim raises some doubts, whether as far as the opportunity is concerned, whether the need to amend the programme is called for. in fact, the programmatic content of Study of the Meio currently in force already shows the defense of values related to the environment and the protection of nature, including teachings on the prevention of fires covering urban and forest areas. It is common practice of teachers, within the autonomy conferred upon them, to develop and recreate the program, in order to meet the learning rhythms of students, their interests and needs and thus to consider the characteristics of the local environment in which they are inserted. The guiding principles allow them to change the order of contents, associate them in different ways, vary their degree of deepening or even add others. The petitioners themselves recognize that, within the educational project and annual plan of activities, they were able to develop various actions directed to recent problems directly linked to the protection and preservation of environmental heritage. The proposed amendments are almost in detail, and it is certain that what should really be concerned, in due course, is a remodelling of the discipline programme as a whole, since its extension is not consistent with the forecast of only 3 hours per week to teach it. But, for example what we have mostly defended, in our understanding, we will have to insert a broad and interdisciplinary curriculum review. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u94	Mrs Liliana Silva, from the PSD, is registered for an intervention. Since this is the first time that the honourable Member uses the floor at the plenary, I like to greet her on behalf of the Bureau. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. in my first intervention, I also greet, in your person, all those present in the room. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the subscribers of this petition for the exercise of citizenship. We speak of more than 4000 citizens. I congratulate her mentors on behalf of the entire PSD parliamentary board, and to the teacher a special well-being, for incurating the values of civic participation. to students, a vote of pride for grasping this challenge and giving it shape, body and life. It is good to see that a project, with the broad dimension of science in school, has yielded results like this. Your concern to request a review of the curriculum program of the Medium Study discipline, in favor of an education focused on deepening the knowledge of your territories and of concrete problems that can be minimized with early civic education, has come to us. Your voice is being heard and this proves that democracy and politics are being made for all and for all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u96	Based on the theme of the project presented by these students, in the framework of the Science at School contest, on the problem of extinction, protection and conservation of native flora, with the harmful effects on the fire environment, poor management, protection and conservation verified in Portuguese territory, this petition proposes concrete changes in 10. the objective, 3. it's 6. the blocks of discipline. In view of the fact that the issue of fire is unfortunately always present, we agree with the petitioners when they mention that matters related to environmental quality should be dealt with early. The sooner students are sensitized to treat forests, with knowledge of their characteristics and fire prevention measures, through the removal of bad civic habits, the sooner we will have young conscious and responsible adults, able to make the change in the country and in the world. The Curriculum Study Programme shall be dynamic and adjusted to the idiosyncrasies of each territory. So the 10th. the objective of the program, which consists in recognizing and valuing the historical and cultural heritage, should, as the petitioners appeal, affect the respect, protection and preservation of the environmental heritage and reveal openness to the knowledge of the territory itself, by the students, in a more in-depth way. Sophia from Mello Breyner had already said: « We see, we hear and read/ We cannot ignore». This petition is based on the assumption that the PSD has always defended, of curriculum flexibility through the autonomy of schools. And therefore we cannot ignore what we read and the reality we see. The concern listed in this petition represents a global idea for everyone and therefore we believe that, within the competences of the Ministry of Education regarding the curriculum change of disciplines, the views expressed in this petition should be taken into account. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u97	For an intervention, Mrs Odete João, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we welcome the subscribers of the petition for the curriculum amendment to the Study of the Middle Ages, paragraph 1. the cycle. We congratulate Professor Isabel Abelheira on her work with the class, which gave rise to the object of this petition. We also highlight the encouragement and preparation of students for the exercise of active and enlightened citizenship. The promotion of quality education involves promoting effective and meaningful learning, with consolidated knowledge, which can be mobilized in concrete situations, promoting the development of higher-level skills. Decree-Law No. 55 / 2018, which establishes the curriculum of basic and secondary education, takes place in the establishment of the profile of the student at the exit of compulsory education and in the definition of essential learnings that constitute the basic curriculum orientation, oriented towards this same profile and articulated between themselves, in horizontal and vertical planes. And the 1st. the cycle, as a cycle of monodocency, has this globalizing and integrated characteristic that allows the treatment of the same theme in several patamares. Environmental education is one of the themes of the essential learnings of Study of the Meio, in a vision of valuing the understanding and interpretation of natural, social and technological processes, centered on real contexts with meaning for students, as did Mrs. Professor in this situation which relates in the petition, facilitators of learning in a perspective of science, technology, society and the environment, since the first years of schooling. Environmental education is present in two domains: one, discovering the natural environment...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to interrupt. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are holding several partial meetings in the Chamber, please help create conditions so that the honourable Member can be heard. [[Pause.]] You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President, I will continue my speech, now in a more peaceful and silent manner. As I said, environmental education is present in two domains: one, at the discovery of the natural environment, another, at the discovery of the interrelationships between nature, society and technology, which integrate these essential learnings into the four years of schooling of 1. the cycle and aim to value the nature of science in the mobilization of cultural, scientific and technological knowledge to understand the reality of the present world and, in particular, the world around us. Environmental education also presents itself as an integral part of education for citizenship and, thus, the reference for environmental education for sustainability, which is, in fact, mentioned in the recommendation under consideration, is inserted in a set of references that were prepared by the Directorate-General for Education, within the framework of citizenship and development, which integrates the curriculum of the different cycles and levels of education and education. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore believes that the existing legal framework, guidelines and references produced, as mentioned above, the curriculum flexibility, which schools can and should use, and the teaching autonomy of the teacher enables them to respond to the challenges present and future, in respect, protection and preservation of environmental heritage, as requested in the petition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u101	Mrs Ana Mesquita from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners here present who request the review of the curricular programme of the course of the study of May 1. the cycle of basic education. The petition currently under discussion, as has already been said, originates in a project of a school, the EB1 / JI Conde Dias Garcia, in São João da Madeira, and effectively aims to give greater emphasis to environmental issues in the discipline of Study of the Middle Ages. It is a fact that environmental education ends up being diluted in different blocks of content during the various years of schooling, and that is, as has already been mentioned here, a margin of flexibility for teachers in their approach, also taking into account a very specific feature of this cycle of teaching, which is that of the nature that should cover teaching at this level, i.e. a globalizing, cross-sectional character, which, indeed, must also be considered in this approach. However, this does not mean that the concerns of the petitioners are not legitimate and obviously do not have a scope which is important here to think and to reflect, on the contrary, the concerns that are given to us through this petition, help us to identify matters of scope to a greater extent, in particular what the CFP considers to be also quite important, which is the need for reflection on the possible amendment of the Curriculum Programme of Study of the Meio, in particular taking into account some aspects which, although not directly addressed in the petition, we believe may be relevant. Therefore, rather than equating mere topical changes, it will be necessary to consider substantive issues, in particular what we often complain about in relation to this programme, such as its excessive extension and also the adequacy of the content to the age group of students, among other aspects. We believe that the reflection that must exist should include not only the discipline of Study of the Middle Ages but other disciplines and other degrees of teaching. Now these are materials that actually tell the CFP a lot. in this sense, I would like to say that we have already presented in the Assembly of the Republic, and it will be discussed soon, a draft resolution that recommends to the Government that it promote a broad and deep national debate, involving specialists and various educational agents, on various aspects, but one of them seems to us - that we also fit this discussion, which is the realization of a deep curriculum reorganization and consequent adequacy of programs, schedules and objectives to be achieved, in order to meet the needs of the development of society and the formation of the individual's integral culture. We believe that this is a space in which the petition presented can also know developments. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u103	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to greet the students, the students and also the teachers of the 3rd class. the year of EB1 / JI Conde Dias Garcia, of the Grouping of Schools João da Silva Correia, in São João da Madeira, because they are also showing us that sometimes the most important things are not learned in books and that, better than any book that can teach participatory democracy and education for citizenship, is the presence of these students here and the fact that they have subscribed a petition, which now obliges Parliament to discuss something that concerns them, and that concerns them, because, in our perspective, students should be involved in defining their educational course and certainly this includes the definition of curricula. Therefore, this greeting to students and teachers is more than a normal greeting to petitioners, it is a greeting to the fact that we consider this to be a real education for citizenship by practice. That is how we also see the fact that curricula should be open to the world, should not be reflected in encyclopedic education, but should be in constant dialogue with today. from this point of view, the Left Block has neither a conservative perspective nor an immobilist perspective on the curricula. It is also not in question the importance of the matter that brings us here, on the protection and conservation of the native flora as a form of fire prevention. The question posed to us is the need to include in the curriculum programme of 1. the cycle of basic education, in the discipline of Study of the Meio, in its 10th. the objective, the need to respect, protect and preserve environmental heritage, and this is obviously an important issue that cannot be ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u105	Madam Member, please suspend your intervention a little bit. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the voting time is coming. It is natural that there are more movement in the Chamber, but I ask you to contribute to respect the speaker who is in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u106	in this case, the speaker, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u107	in this case, the honourable Member. He didn't let it go for nothing and he did very well! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u108	You want to continue, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u109	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, as has already been said, we are also aware that the curriculum of this discipline, like other 1 curricula. the cycle and other levels of teaching is too extensive. This extension does not support participation in this type of projects that allow to suit the curriculum, also due to the pedagogical autonomy of teachers, to the needs and to the local realities. from this point of view, we defend, and we have come to defend, the need for comprehensive curriculum reform, which, on the one hand, update contents that necessarily have to be updated—if this can be true in the Study of the Middle, it is certainly true, for example, in history and in the recent debate that has existed in relation to our post-colonial visions—and, on the other hand, to address these projects more specifically. It is that curricular reform should take into account that the number of targets and the huge extent of programmes does not allow the flexibility that the government wants to implement. from our point of view, this debate is not closed, it begins here and certainly these students have been a good inspiration and will be a good motivation for us to continue to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u110	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am still making the same appeal recently. For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by greeting the more than 4470 petitioners who have subscribed to Petition No 498 / XIII / 3. a, which specifically calls for a reflection to the Assembly of the Republic, proposing the review of the curriculum programme of the discipline of Study of the Middle Ages, paragraph 1. the basic education cycle, with a view, in essence, to strengthening the component of environmental education, i.e. the training of citizens for environmental matters, to which petitioners give real importance. We believe that the issue of environmental education in schools, not only in schools, has a very important dimension, or must assume, because we need responsible citizens and consumers, who can make sustainable choices when they have that right and duty of choice. But we also need citizens with preventive attitudes. And one of the important questions that petitioners here raise has to do with the need to be demanding and interventional regarding the protection and construction of a more multifunctional forest and more resistant to the drama of forest fires. As you know, many studies have revealed that many of the ignitions that caused forest fires have just begun by negligent attitudes on the part of citizens. Therefore, there is an entire dimension of intervention and attitude of every citizen and society in its entirety that is very important to ensure better environmental standards, more sustainability and more security. The petitioners point to a path, but it does not mean that we agree exactly with that path. We believe, however, that the important thing is the reflection they bring to the Assembly of the Republic on the need to strengthen the matter of environmental education. The Greens have also brought several proposals for environmental education to be strengthened in schools and we realize the need for reorganization of curricula, so that environmental education gains greater weight and has this transversal character in its approach. Therefore, what we would like to stress is the importance of what the petitioners have presented, in terms of the need for discussion and action by the Assembly of the Republic, on these matters. And the Greens are ready and willing to act precisely in the sense that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u112	All right! [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u113	We have thus reached the end of the discussion on the fifth point of our agenda. The next scheduled item, without time for discussion, concerns motions for resolution No 81 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Portuguese Republic on Defence Cooperation, signed in Tallinn, on 1 June 2018, 82 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola to Avoid Double Taxation in Tax Matters on Income and Prevent Fraud and Tax Evasion, signed in Luanda on 18 September 2018, 83 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola on Mutual Administrative Assistance and Cooperation in Tax Matters, signed in Luanda on 18 September 2018, and 84 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement for the Review of the Agreement on Air Transport Services between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mozambique, signed in Lisbon on 30 April 2010. Before we move on to the voting period, I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 1943 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — by tariff articulation and promotion of reduced transport prices in links between metropolitan areas and neighbouring intermunicipal communities and 1944 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, during the first half of 2019, undertake the career as a single collective transport agent, which shall be paid at least by level 5 of the operational assistant career of the single public service. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u115	Let us, then, start the voting period. First of all, the deliberation quorum should be checked using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically, will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 196 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members José Moura Soeiro, BE, Paula Santos and Duarte Alves, PCP, Ascension Simões and Bachelor of Vasconcelos, PS, Sérgio Azevedo and Ricardo Baptista Leite, PSD, and Teresa Caeiro, CDS-PP, making 204 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We begin by Vote No 707 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Despite the death of Antonio Fonseca Ferreira. I would ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u116	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « António Fonseca Ferreira died. Born 74 years ago in Trancoso, soon at the age of 14 he affirmed his dedication to freedom and democracy, being one of the students who, challenging the regime, received on the stairs of the Hotel Turismo da Guarda the General Humberto Delgado. Later, in the student movement, he would have an active participation in association, in Coimbra, and in the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto. He joined the Democratic Electoral Commission in 1969 and was arrested in Caxias by the PIDE in 1971, and was sentenced to five years in prison in 1972. the following year, he left for exile in France, where he obtained political asylum. After 25 April, he was founder of the Socialist Intervention Group, in 1976, of the Center for Socialist Studies, in 1978, and of the Movement for the deepening of Democracy, in 1983, having participated actively in the presidential candidacy of Maria de Lurdes Pintasilgo. Fonseca Ferreira would join the Socialist Party in 1987, having stood out by a remarkable political activism, acting in various structures, from the coordinator of the Lumiar Section to the member of the National Commission and the National Political Commission, through the coordination of the Left Margin reflection current and a candidature to the party's Secretary-General in 2011. in the plan of the autarchic intervention, he performed functions in the Municipal Assembly of Trancoso, his native land, and as a councilman in the Municipal Chamber of Palmela. Specialist in the areas of housing and strategic and urban planning, with extensive work published, was Chairman of the Coordination Commission of the Lisbon Region and the Tejo Valley between 1998 and 2009. in this field, it was highlighted by the coordination of numerous pioneering and impacting projects, such as the Lisbon Strategic Plan in 1994, the evaluation of uses and appropriation of accommodation in Telleiras, the review of regional planning plans of the territory of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the West and Vale do Tejo, and the participation in the team that prepared the first municipal directors plans in Portugal. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Antonio Fonseca Ferreira, addressing his family, friends and the Socialist Party the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u117	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the President of the Assembly of the Republic is associated with this vote, presented by the PS. Let us then vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 708 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Pawel Adamowicz, who will be read by Secretary Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u118	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last January 14th, the President of the Polish City Chamber of Gdansk, Pawel Adamowicz, 53 years old, died as a victim during a charity event. Pawel Adamowicz was a prominent figure in Polish public life, primarily known for his critical position to the current Polish government. He entered political life in 1990, and was soon elected President of the House, who was currently in office. Adamowicz was a Europeanist of progressive opinions, supporting the causes of minorities, particularly immigrants and LGBT rights. on the day that he was the victim of the attack that ended up being deadly, Adamowicz was at an event in Gdansk for fundraising to a pediatric hospital, in which thousands of people attended. The violence of the attack was unanimously condemned, demonstrating solidarity throughout the country, which has been the stage of political polarization not always healthy. Adamowicz was also one of the voices of tolerance and democratic values in a context of increasing the extreme right in his country. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the brutal attack that led to the death of Pawel Adamowicz, conveying to his family and his country his sadness and sorrow. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 709 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Of condemnation and regret for the murder of Pawel Adamowicz, which will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u120	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last January 13, the president of the municipality of Gdansk, Poland, Pawel Adamowicz was stabbed during the largest event of solidarity organized annually in the country, ending up not resisting serious injuries and failing on the next day, day 14. The 53-year-old Polish author, a training lawyer, incorporated the student opposition movement against the communist regime in 1988 in the so-called « iron curtain », which would eventually force a year later the democratic transition in Poland. Pawel Adamowicz's political journey was marked by the service to the municipality of Gdansk as a Member and, later, as President, he served from 1998 until the day of his death. Christians committed to democracy, their dedication to the public cause and the surrender to the Catholic church were worth the distinction with the Cross of Liberty and Solidarity, by the Polish State, and the decoration with the Medal ProEcclesia et Pontiff, by Pope John Paul II. Free man and cause, he never abstained from expressing and affirming, even when his defense involved diverging or even abandoning his party. To date, the reasons behind this cowardly act against Adamowicz are not known in democracy to resort to violence as a means of asserting political convictions or defending points of view is unacceptable and unjustifiable. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Pawel Adamowicz, president of the municipality of Gdansk, expressing condolences to his family; condemns his brutal murder; and is associated with the mourning of the municipality of Gdansk. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u121	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and abstentions by BE and The Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the Draft Deliberation No 22 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — The second amendment is made to Resolution No 11 - PL / 2015 of 12 November ( List and composition of standing parliamentary committees ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 1887 / XIII / 4 is hereby followed. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of a contingency action plan to take urgent measures to mitigate the overall impacts of the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution is down to 4. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1928 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a contingency action plan to minimize the effects and consequences of a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] This draft resolution also goes down to 4. the Commission. We now vote on draft resolution No 1824 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government establish a proportional limit for wage disparity within each organisation. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u122	Mr President, I beg your pardon, allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u123	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u124	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u125	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1050 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Legalizes cannabis for personal use. [[Subject to vote, it was rejected, subject to vote, with votes against the PSDP, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the PCP, the PCP and 7 PS (Antonio Gameiro, Eurídice Pereira, Hortense Martins, Maria da Luz Rosinininha, Miranda Calha, Odete João and Vitalino Canas), votes in favour of BE, PAN and 25 PS (Ascension Simonos, Baceller of Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Carla Sousa, Carla Suvares, Catarina Marcelino, Constance Urban of Sousa, Diogo León, Edited Star, Fernando Anastácio, Fernando Rocha Andrade, Francisco Rocha Andrade, Francisco Roccha, Hugo Carvalho, Hugoo Carvalho, Hugo Carvalho, Hugo Hugoro Hugo, Hugo More, Hugo More, Ivano Sá Almeida, Ivano Sá, Sono Sá, and Tiregio Pina Sá, and Tiregio Pina Pina Sá, and Sergio Pina Pinato, and Sergio Psssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssa P. Vice. Nuno Sano Sá, and Sergio, and Sergio, and Sergio, and Sergio, and Sergio, and Sergio, and Sergio, and Sergio Ruba Pinssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Nuno Rub Rub Rub Rub Rub Rub Rub Rub Rub Rub. Nuno P quickly, while Ruba P. Nuns. Nuno. Nuna P quickly, while Rub. Nuna P quickly, and Sergiosa P quickly, while Ruba P.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u126	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u127	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u128	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u129	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u130	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u131	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u132	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Amaro Leitão, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Mr Azevedo, we will present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u133	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u134	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u135	Please, Mr. Vitalino Canas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u136	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u137	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 1062 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the adult use of cannabis. [[Subject to vote, it was rejected, subject to vote, with votes against the PSDP, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the PCP and 7 PS (Antonio Gameiro, Eurídice Pereira, Hortendice Martins, Maria da Luz Rosininha, Miranda Calha, Odete João and Vitalino Canas), votes in favour of BE, PAN and of the PCP and of 7 PS (Antonio Gameiro, Euridice Pereira, Hortendice Martins, Maria Maria Maria Martins, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Miranda, Miranda Marcelino, Odete João de Sousa, Diogo León, Edited Star, Fernando Anastácio, Fernando Carcha Andrade, Francisco Rochero, Hugo Carvalho, Hugo Carvalhoo Carvalho, Hugo Carves, Hugo Hugo Hugo More, Hugo More, Ivano Suugado Alves Alves Alves Alves Alves Alves Vice son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son son Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph Joseph]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u138	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u139	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u140	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of a group of Members of the Socialist Party, we will deliver a vote on the two votes that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u141	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u142	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u143	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u144	Mr President, I would also like to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the two previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u145	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u146	Mr President, it is also to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the two previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u147	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u148	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Leitão Amaro, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Mr Sérgio Azevedo, we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u149	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 719 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — adopts more animal welfare measures with regard to the transport of live animals. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 10 PS (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Diogo León, Hugo Carvalho, Luís Graça, Luís Soares, Marisabel Moutela, Pedro Delgado Alves, Sonia Fertuzinhos and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro).]] We now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 1214 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement a regime in which the transport of live animals via long-term travel to third countries is permitted only in exceptional situations. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, the PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PSD, The Greens and the PS Deputies 9 Deputies of PS (Bacler de Vasconcelos, Catarina Marcelino, Diogo León, Luís Graza, Luís Soares, Marisabel Moutela, Pedro Delgado Alves, Sonia Fertuzinhos and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u150	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u151	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u152	Mr President, it is to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the last vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, Mr Ulisses Pereira and Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u153	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 1215 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it do not provide in the programmes to support livestock production the allocation of any public incentive to livestock production undertakings exporting live animals to third countries. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of The Greens.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1594/13 / 3. a (The Greens) — Limitation and adaptation of the transport of live animals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 12 PS (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Diogo León, Hugo Carvalho, Luís Graça, Luís Soares, Maria Conceição Loureiro, Marisabel Moutela, Pedro Delgado Alves, Sonia Fertuzinhos and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and abstentions from the PSD and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u154	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the vote we have just made on my own behalf and on behalf of Mr Pedro do Ó Ramos, Mr Ulisses Pereira and Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will then vote on Bill No. 1051 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — regulates the long-term transport of live animals. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE, PAN, non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 12 PS (Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Diogo León, Hugo Carvalho, Luís Graça, Luís Soares, Maria Conceição Loureiro, Marisabel Moutela, Pedro Delgado Alves, Sonia Fertuzinhos and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and the abstention of The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u156	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u157	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u158	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of some of you. Members of the Socialist Party, we will deliver a declaration of vote on the vote of Bill No 719 / XIII / 3. a, of Resolution Projects Nos 1214, 1215 and 1594 / XIII / 3. a and draft Law No 1051 / XIII / 4. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-18.u159	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1850 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to change the protection policy of children and young people at risk, relaunched family reception as a privileged measure between placement measures. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from PS, BE, PCP and The Greens.]] We are voting now, in general, the Bill No. 963 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in security forces and services. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We continue with the general vote of Bill No 1063 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Improvement of health conditions, in the working environment, of forces and security services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote, also in general, of Bill No. 935 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Disincentives the use of microplastics in current-use products such as cosmetics and hygiene products in order to safeguard ecosystems and public health. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We shall now vote on the request by the NAP to download the Commission without a 60-day vote on Bill No. 751 / XIII / 3. a (PAN) — Determines the prohibition on the production and marketing of detergents and cosmetics containing microplastics. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the Greens.]] The bill therefore drops to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1883 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a scientific study to address the impacts of microplastics on the environment, food chain and human health. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] The general vote of Bill No 1060 / XIII / 4 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — prohibits the marketing and import of cosmetics and hygiene products containing microplastics and regulates their presence in other products. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] We shall also vote, in general, on Bill No. 1061 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements a programme to reduce the use of microplastics in cosmetics and hygiene and cleaning products. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 81 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Portuguese Republic on Defence Cooperation signed in Tallinn on 1 June 2018. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member, Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 82 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola to Avoid Double Taxation in Income Tax Matters and Prevent Fraud and Tax Evasion, signed in Luanda, on 18 September 2018. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of BE.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 83 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola on Mutual Administrative Assistance and Cooperation in Tax Matters, signed on 18 September 2018. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 84 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement for the Review of the Agreement on Air Transport Services between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Mozambique, signed in Lisbon on 30 April 2010. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 145 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Law of the Judicial System Organization. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 166 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the allocation of a credit privilege to the generality of bank deposits in the event of insolvency and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2399 on the position of certain debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote for the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session of the Commission on the Proposal for a Law No 166 / XIII / 4. a. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the Proposal for a Law No 166 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the allocation of a credit privilege to the generality of bank deposits in the event of insolvency and transposes Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2399 on the position of certain debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our work today. I recall that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 23 January, beginning at 3 p.m. of point one is the joint assessment, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 171 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Health Bases and Drafts Act No. 1029 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Basic Health Policy Act, 1065 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Health Bases Act and 1066 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Health Bases Act. The general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 172 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. in point three, the joint assessment of Petition No 137 / XIII / 1a ( Commission of Users for the abolition of portages in A1, in the Town Hall of Vila Franca de Xira ) — for the abolition of tolls in A1, in the Town Hall of Vila Franca de Xira, and of the Draft Resolution No 1868 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Abolition of toll rates in A1, Vila Franca de Xira and Alverca. Thank you all very much and a good weekend is what I wish. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 40 minutes.]]
