ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start this meeting of the Standing Committee. As you know, at the meeting of the Leaders Conference that took place last week, it was decided to hold this meeting. Thus, in addition to the essential point, the political debate on the question of Tankos will be a first point, without time for discussion, to proceed to the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 383/ XIII and still voting, because there is a request for the President of the Republic to abstain abroad and, unfortunately, also several votes of regret. First, however, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 1236 / XIII / 4. a ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens) — End with the allocation of financial support by public entities for the realization of Tauromachic activities, which falls to 12. the Commission and draft resolution No 2278 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to the Italian Republic and Paris. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u3	Mrs. Members, I now turn to the first item on our agenda with the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the dismissal, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 383 / XIII — Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, which regulates the production of assisted medicinal products. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the message is as follows: « Together I shall return your Excellency in accordance with Article 279. the, paragraph 1 of the Constitution, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 383 / XIII — Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, which regulates the production of assisted medicinal products, since the Constitutional Court, by judgment, whose photocopy is annexed, was pronounced as a preventive inspection by the unconstitutionality of the standard set out in Article 2. ( a) the part in which Article 8 ( 8 ) is reintroduced. the Law No 32 / 2006, of 26 July, as amended by Laws No 59 / 2007 of 4 September, 17 / 2016 of 20 June, 25 / 2016 of 22 August, 58 / 2017 of 25 July, 49 / 2018 of 14 August, and 48 / 2019 of 8 July, making it transit to paragraph 13 of that article in accordance with the simultaneous renumbering carried out; and consequently, (b) in the part in which, through the addition of paragraph 15. Article 8 ( j ). that of the Act, provides that the terms of revocation of consent provided by the pregnant woman shall take place in accordance with the standard referred to in )( ). I present to you my respectful compliments. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” All of you. Members know, because the laws, articles and numbers mentioned in the message were made public at the right time, so we will move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the political debate on the question of Tanks. To open the debate, Mr Fernando Negrão, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting our soldiers who are on mission in the Central African Republic, congratulate them for having controlled a serious incident and say that our Armed Forces, without having had a single low, have honored Portugal once again. [[PSD applause.]] This debate, whose theme is the so-called "Case Tancos", should have happened last week, still in election campaign. And still in an election campaign because it was in an election campaign that he emerged as a topic of discussion and debate, to which the PS did not respond and did not clarify his position. In other words, the election campaign ended and the electorate citizens did not have access to information from all parties so that they could fully formulate their views. That's the PS, PCP and the Left Block! We, having been prevented from doing in the legislation that now ends, will not fail to continue to do in the legislation that is approaching.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u6	It is of no use to convene for this debate the pope of the judicialization of politics, as a way of avoiding the application of the principle of equality of citizens before the law, where obviously political citizens are included. In fact, following legislation produced by legislative and executive powers in recent decades, the courts have achieved a greater role that is manifested in a growing guarantee of rights and in the control of legality and abuse of power. The intervention of the courts in more and more sectors of our lives, as well as the need to ensure social and economic rights and not complied with by political institutions, has forced more and more focused intervention by the courts in the field of politics. The courts are thus gaining more and more protagonistism, increasing their role in the political sphere, rather exclusive of the legislative and executive powers, and, it is emphasized, institutional changes, produced by the political power itself, have led to significant changes in the relations between the powers. One of the consequences was the institutional rise of the judiciary, which led the courts to stop being a mere "body of specialized technicians" and also to play a political role, dividing the space with the legislative and executive powers. If we want to discuss what the real judicialization of political power is, let us look at the cases of the decision of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom by declaring null and void the Queen's decision to suspend the functioning of Parliament and the decision of the Kingdom of Spain by denying the unconstitutionality and illegality of the legislation aimed at exhuming the body of Franco. These, yes, are the real questions of judicialization of the political system. That is why it is political, and only political, that we will talk about here. In general terms, we see what happened: the Tancos episode happened on June 28, 2017. There was the country of mourning in the heat of the tragic fire of Pedrogão Grande that unleashed a visceral blow on the Portuguese only 10 days earlier. The army's main paddle in Tanks, which had no one to keep it and was equipped with a video surveillance system that did not work and had the watchtowers in very bad state and without garrison and lighting, was robbed and from there they carried weapons and ammunition. Shortly thereafter, weapons and ammunition subsequently found, the same or other, were returned to the scene of the carried and, this time, through a plan designed by the authorities themselves. Unconceived and unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u8	The Government has a Prime Minister to whom its ministers must be loyal, and they are responsible for coordinating all the action of the Government. The Prime Minister did not resign, accepted the resignation of the then Minister of Defense, Prof. Azeredo Lopes. Everything has explanations! There is, however, an SMS (short message service) of a PS Member addressed to the then Minister of Defence and with response, of which it may be inferred that the Minister knew and accepted the “recovery” plan of the missing weapons of the Tancos paddle. And here comes the political aspect of this case. In normal circumstances, the Minister of Defence would have told the Prime Minister what was going on and what he knew and the Prime Minister would have taken its consequences out of it. Mr. Prime Minister is afraid of not answering. Therefore, the questions which must be asked and answered are the following: first, how does Mr. Prime Minister assess the performance of the former Minister of Defence, Prof. Azeredo Lopes? Second, when did you know and what did you know and Mr. Prime Minister know about what happened in Tanks? If he knew and did nothing, it was convivent. If I didn't know, something strange happened in the government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the strictly political level, this is the political doubt that we need urgent clarification in order to normalise the functioning of the institutions and to reassure the concerns of the citizens. And these aren't the first questions we ask. We have already done so in 15-year debates, other debates and in a committee of inquiry. The PSD will not be silent on matters which it believes should be debated. in this House, there was a Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry ( ICC ) on Tanks, where all speakers were heard and all existing documentation was analyzed. Finally, I will say that it is politics — it is politics — whether a Prime Minister who wants to be Prime Minister again deserves the confidence of the Portuguese, especially when there are doubts and suspicions that have never been fully clarified! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the debate. I hope that there will be inscriptions so that we can debate accordingly. [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the PSD has spent half its time in the initial intervention to justify why this meeting is not clear how they politicized this issue. Unlike others, I do not see a fragility in this symptom, but I do see a little bit of rationality and I hope that the debate will take place on this rationality. Otherwise, we said, from the outset, that the constitution of a commission of inquiry, in a process that was being investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office, would have enormous obstacles because several of the defendants would put their status as a defendant as a way not to testify in the commission of inquiry. This warning we made from the beginning was materialized. One after another, I heard them in the committee of inquiry say: "I don't talk about it. I have no answer about that. I have no obligation to answer on this, because in my condition as a defendant I may not respond». And the result of these inquiries led to the fact-based formulation of evidence not being clearly in all the knowledge of the Committee of Inquiry. Well, when the facts are not lacking, they may remain opinions, but they are opinions, suspicions, and not facts. Since the prosecution of the Public Prosecutor's Office has been known that there are several information worth taking into account and that is why we have said, from the outset, that we have opened up for now, yes, without anyone coming with that cover that, being accused, cannot testify, a new commission of inquiry can constitute itself and be absolutely effective in its work. We said during the period of the election campaign and I say it again now that we have all the opening up to do a committee of inquiry on what really happened in the new legislature. I believe that the suspicion that is on the table and that it was the main theme of the election campaign by the PSD and the CDS deserves to be evaluated, but I insist on this point: what the Left Block called for to leave in the findings of the Committee of Inquiry was that the involvement of former Minister Azeredo Lopes had not been proven. It was not a declaration of innocence, it was a statement of the facts found in the Committee of Inquiry. If new facts—and the prosecution of the Public Prosecutor's Office thus seems to indicate—are demonstrated, I believe that this conclusion of the Committee of Inquiry may and should be amended. on our part, there is full openness to this amendment, to that correction, but always with facts and not with assumptions or opinions. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that the criticism which, curiously, the parties that cling to the role that the former Minister may have had does not extend it in his analysis of this situation. And for us this criticism was obvious, before we knew the prosecution of the Public Prosecutor's Office: it is that the judicial police institution itself should deserve a reflection on whether or not it should exist. It is true that they can say that the Left Block has long considered that the Military Judicial Police should not exist. It is a fact, we do not hide it, I fear it abundantly. But the data that have been drawn up even in the Committee of Inquiry show that this reflection is absolutely relevant, and that is why they already know the opinion of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u11	For an intervention, Mr António Filipe has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Fernando Negrão began this debate in an elucidative way, saying that this meeting should have occurred during the election campaign. Indeed, what the PSD intended to do was to make the case of Tancos the central theme of its electoral campaign, probably in the absence of other themes that it considered more striking. And actually did. But he had a virtue: Dr. Rui Rio has made peace with the Public Prosecutor's Office. He, who so much attacked the Public Prosecutor's Office in the past, has now said that the Public Prosecutor's Office has acted very well. What we understand is that we must always respect the decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office and not only when they are politically right for us. Therefore, it was good for the PSD and Dr. Rui Rio to respect the decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office, whether they like it or not. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the election campaign has ended and we must first recognise that the seriousness of what happened in Tankos cannot be denied, and it is obvious that it was. It is a political matter, of course, of political responsibility, and of criminal investigation. And both things must be separated. We have been half-legislation, this one that now ends, discussing widely the case of Tanks in this House. This case was discussed in the Parliamentary Defence Commission, in several 15-year debates with the Prime Minister and was also the subject of a Parliamentary Inquiry Committee, and the same personalities — Defence ministers, military leaders and other military ministers — were heard several times on the same subject. at that time, we considered that — and I have just been reviewing the statements made by Mr Machado on behalf of the CFP — in the course of a criminal procedure on this matter, it was premature to carry out a committee of inquiry, because it would have limitations, particularly related to the secret of justice, to its ability to investigate the facts in all its depth. Apparently, the prosecution of the Public Prosecutor's Office corroborates this view. In other words, the Committee of Inquiry found out what it had to do. And we have no criticism of the conclusions reached in the Committee of Inquiry, because it cannot invent beyond what it knows and cannot make assumptions. Of course, anyone who comes to be the outcome of the criminal trial can allow us to draw conclusions about what was possible or not clear up and if someone has failed the truth before the Investigation Board, but that can only be seen at the end. It is not on the basis of an accusation that a definitive conclusion can be drawn, contrary to what the PSD did during the election campaign, which handed down sentences on the indictment, when the case, as was reported, will still enter the stage of contradictory instruction and then there will be the trial phase. Only before the end of the trial is that we can draw a definitive conclusion about what has happened. Therefore, we cannot politically be giving up judicial decisions that have not yet been taken. Let's wait for justice to work the way it worked. It is working — and that is positive — we will let it work without any interference and, in the end, we will draw conclusions. As is often said, justice is what is justice and politics is what is politics. We will wait for the judicial decision to be taken and, on the basis of this, we will draw the political illusions that we have to draw, in particular as regards the behaviour that all the persons heard in the Committee of Inquiry have before this House. I repeat: there will of course be illusions to take and there may be responsibilities to take, but we will have to wait and we will not give sentences in advance. There is, however, a question that we will have to continue to follow in the next Parliament, which is to know under what conditions the ammunition of the Portuguese Armed Forces will continue to be kept. We don't want any more cases like Tanks. The safety of the equipment and installations of the Portuguese Armed Forces is, yes, concerns that must continue in the future and we will be here to monitor this matter and to hold the future government accountable for how our Armed Forces will be safeguarded from that point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u13	Registrations of the parliamentary groups that have not yet intervened are pending. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The case of Tancos returns again to this House and it is true that the case is serious — after all, it is the theft of military material, but it is also true that, following the prosecution by the Public Prosecutor to the former Minister of Defence Azeredo Lopes, there were those who immediately sought to concentrate all the attention of the electoral campaign on the matter of Tanks. The PSD proposed the convening of the Standing Committee and the CDS intends to set up a new parliamentary committee of inquiry in the next Parliament. However, in view of the sequence of facts which are being known, not only the theft of the material, but also, above all, its recovery, which has been gaining, in fact, unclear contours, the Greens would like to emphasise a few considerations on this matter. The subject is serious, very serious, and requires that it also be treated seriously. Therefore, the political parties who sought not to reduce the election campaign to the case of Tancos were well blessed because the proposals of the various political forces for the future of the Portuguese and our country and not only the serious problem of Tancos were concerned. That is why the political forces opposed the implementation of this Standing Committee even at the end of the election campaign, but which still made it possible for it to be carried out today and, therefore, after the end of the election campaign and after the vote. With regard to the announcement of the CDS-PP to propose a new commission of inquiry in the next Parliament, we will not oppose it, even though we consider it would have been much more advised to hear those who defended that it would make much more sense to wait for the conclusion of the judicial investigation to proceed with the establishment of a committee of inquiry. It should also be recalled that the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the theft of military material in Tanks responsible successive governments for the degradation of the operational conditions of the Army and its infrastructure. And now we stress: the choice of the various governments and military structures at the top of the Army has always been to give priority to national forces for NATO missions (North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), with damage to the rest, especially for the fixed component and for security. Therefore, as environmentalists who bring peace into their DNA, it seems to us that it is time to look at our Constitution and, above all, look at what your article 7 says. the, where it is expressly stated that Portugal advocates the dissolution of political and military blocs instead of continuing to give priority to NATO maneuvers. Finally, I would like to say that it is important now to create the necessary conditions for justice and criminal investigation bodies to carry out their work without any inconvenience, i.e. to be able to ascertain all the facts involved in this case, which is serious, but also to clear up all the responsibilities, including whether or not the former Minister of Defence Azeredo Lopes has given false statements to the Commission of Inquiry on the theft of tank material. however, I remember that Mr Azeredo Lopes continues to enjoy the presumption of innocence because he has not yet been the subject of any trial he has been tried. On this subject, it is also important to remember that the Greens greatly appreciate the constitutional principle that will ensure a clear separation between what is legal and what is political matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u15	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not register. According to me, only the CDS-PP and PS have not yet intervened, since the PSD will use the word at the end, as is usual in this type of debate. So between CDS-PP and PS, someone has to use the word. The President of the Assembly of the Republic thanks. Otherwise, I would like to call on the PSD to close the debate. [[Pause.]] There can be no voids or impasses in Parliament — voids of time and impasses of time. I am starting from the principle that, if no one joins, it is because they agree to give the floor to the PSD Parliamentary Group to close the debate. [[Pause.]] If no one opposes it that way, then it will be. I shall give the floor to the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u16	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u17	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u18	Mr President, it is only to say that we will use the floor to ensure that the CDS, like the most voted party, can intervene in this plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u19	See if he doesn't fall for a tooth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u20	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic is meeting today to address an issue which, being entrusted to the judiciary, should deal with the serenity, respect and independence that it calls for. Only the anticipation of a disastrous election result—which would, in fact, be confirmed— could justify that political leaders wanted to take advantage of what is today a criminal process to try to turn it into a political weapon of assault, to further enter into deplorable processes of intent and insidious judgments of character.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u23	We saw everything during the campaign, including the challenges of party leaders who, always under the invocation of respect for the principle of the separation of powers and the distinction between the judicial plan and the politician, meant no more than a gross attempt to violate it. It should be noted that all the elements requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry were provided to him and that, among such requests, he was sending several statements to the Commission. What, then, of the statements of the still leader of the CDS, would you like the Assembly of the Republic to refer informally to the Public Prosecutor's Office statements which he did not ask for—and, more importantly, are publicly available—and it is true that, if he had asked for them, they would have been referred to him, like the others? What can this represent but an attempt at interference or censorship in the way the Public Prosecutor conducted the investigations? "He asked for four statements! Is that what you're talking about? It's wrong! The DCIP (Central Department of Investigation and Criminal Action) is incompetent, should have requested more! » — that is what the CDS told everyone, and who knows how to be the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese people, do not know how to organize and operate the judicial system, especially the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is true that the prosecution brought down by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the so-called Tanks procedure appears partially inconsistent with the findings of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission that it has dealt with here, as well as with the fact-finding. The statements made at the ICC by several deputies, from general officials to the ex-title of the National Defence folder, do not allow us to support the fact that social communication tells us to have been invoked by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the indictment formulated, thus presenting itself to what is given us to know — to us who do not know what the criminal process contains —, in line with that. However, starting from this irrefutable finding for the conclusion that false statements have been made within the scope of the ICC is to give a criminal charge a nature which the law and the Constitution refuse it; it is to give according as much as the law and the Constitution wants it to be considered controversial; it is also grossly violating the principle of presumption of innocence that the Constitution and the law confer upon all, I repeat, the defendants. It is public that the ex-Minister of National Defence, despite being accused and accused, vehemently contests the factuality which is imputed to him in the accusation that he was a target. The constitutional principle of the separation of powers determines that it will compete with the courts — read to law-judges — validate, or not, the deduced accusation and the underlying factuality. To claim that, in particular, Parliament can replace this judicial assessment, in addition to the principle of the agent's guilt, it can be demagogicly tempting, and it was manifestly in the election campaign, but it does not advocate any parliamentary, in addition to being gross violation of the principle of the separation of powers and the presumption of innocence that the Constitution, and well, statue. The principle of presumption of innocence is a basic principle of a democratic rule of law. The parliamentary leader of the main opposition party has, in fact, special obligations in defending this principle, not only and it would already be enough for its legal formation, but also for its life experience. Being accused cannot mean being convicted and, in many cases, does not mean even coming to be pronounced. That is, an accusation deduced by the Public Prosecutor's Office may come to not be validated judicially, either in the courthouse or in the courthouse. To turn from the opposite is to feed populist justiceisms, to cultivate demagogy. in a word, it is, parliamentaryly and democratically, an indignity. "Justice" cannot be a mere disposable coward to the first apparent political convenience. The previous PSD direction has already welcomed and publicly designed those who manifestly disregard the elementary values of the democratic rule of law. The parliamentary composition out of these elections will remind us, in fact, often, of such ignominy. It would be good if, having exceeded the electoral frenzy, the structural parties of Portuguese democracy would return to internalize all the assumptions and consequences of the fundamental principles embodied in the Constitution of the Republic. The separation of powers and independence from the judiciary are two of them. Cease in the principles may eventually reap temporary dividends, but in the long run it is always democracy that will prove fragile. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the PS wants all facts relating to Tanks to be ascertained and all responsibilities charged, in respect of the Constitution, the law and dignity of Parliament and the courts. If a new parliamentary committee of inquiry on Tanks is thus required, we will be able to make it possible for it. I am sure that all those who believe in justice and democracy will follow us on this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u24	Now, yes, it is Mr Telmo Correia's turn by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, it is worth listening first to the Socialist Party, notably Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, who chaired the Committee of Inquiry that—and it was not the CDS that said, but all the country and all the social communication said so, at the time—warranted the Socialist Party and its political leaders, notably the former Minister of Defence, of any responsibility. So it was worth hearing it, even because what you would expect me to say today was that they were wrong, deceived and made a report that did not prestigious or honour politics or political power. It has nothing to do with justice, it has nothing to do with politics and political power.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u27	Secondly, I would like to say that the CDS did not ask for this debate now, but did not object to it, and did not object for a very simple reason: it makes no sense, contrary to what you want, that the whole country is discussing a subject, that all televisions open, in the morning at night, all news about a subject and the only place where it is not discussed is in the Assembly of the Republic, because it cannot, it does not suit or does not work. That was a good reason to argue. Another good reason for discussion was the way the Socialist Party immediately reacted to the news of the accusation. What did the Socialist Party do? As usual, whenever there is a problem that concerns the Socialist Party or someone of the Socialist Party, he said it was a cabal. It was a horse, it was a conspiracy! And this has also come to the social communication and it was important to clarify and debate. What is more, it is very curious to see that not only the leaders of the Socialist Party but also commentators, placed a little in all the space of communication but whose partisan color or, at least, party sympathy we know, have all come with the same talk: how is it possible for justice to decide now, at a time like this? Oh, my God! This when we all know that there were deadlines and it is not possible to launch an unacceptable suspicion about justice and its functioning. That was everywhere! Everyone saw it, it was crystal clear and transparent. About this, what do we have here? In my view, we have to step up with the Committee of Inquiry, which has been very clear in two or three essential things. First, there was an act outside the law, illegal, of the Military Judicial Police ; second, there was an agreement between the PJM and the attackers, who, instead of being arrested, would go in peace, delivering the weapons; third, the Commission of Inquiry found that, the day after the arms delivery ceremony, the Minister of Defense knew of everything and, for a year and a half, he did nothing at all. This was sufficiently serious at the time, politically involved the responsibility of the Minister and the Prime Minister, who supposedly runs the government, but the Socialist Party and the parties that supported it in the last legislature — we will see if they are the same in this — they wanted to whiten all this and to ban everyone. This is the absolute truth. What do we have now? We came up with a start, that is, if it was clear and evident that, on the day following the stagnation, the government or at least the Minister of Defence knew now, apparently, we know that he had known before. These are the facts of the accusation and this has political relevance, obviously waiting for the trial and trial. So we went up to a kick: I didn't know the next day, you probably knew before, how, moreover, they report conversations with members of the parliamentary group, etc. The question concerning the Prime Minister, as has been said here, remains. The Prime Minister, at the time of the departure of the Minister, said: « He faithfully performed his duties. It has transmitted to me in all matters the information which it has considered relevant or which I have requested». We asked the Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, what happened. Was he loyal or was he not loyal? Did you transmit or not transmit? Did you ask or didn't you ask? And he has to answer this, he can't run away, he can't hide, it's an answer he has to give us. With regard to the other parties, BE and PCP, I understand that they are now ashamed of the report they have approved and how they have done so. But they do not say that they were deceived, that there were great lies, because what was decided in the Commission was already relevant and you did not want to know anything, they wanted to be unique and simply whitewashed. What the CDS says is that here, in the Standing Committee, we cannot decide anything, until what we decided was taken over by the new Parliament, but in the next legislature, reopening the committee of inquiry, yes, sir, it is possible, but only if you change your attitude. It is that if you go to a second committee of inquiry as it was for the first, then we are not going to find out anything and we are not going to come to a conclusion, as it is obvious. Then, with regard to the argument that it did not make sense to the Committee of Inquiry, because there were limitations on the basis of justice, as Mr António Filipe said, then there is no more? Oh, my God! Can it be now? The process is still going on, keep going! They're available now and they weren't at the time why? It is certainly contradictory and makes no sense to have two weights and two measures in this area. Even at the end of the day I would like to say the following : from the point of view of the CDS, all the matter — and replying to Mr Filipe Neto Brandão — that exists must be referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is because there is certainly—and I'm not saying it because, in your attempt to apologize, even the leftmost parties the first thing they said was...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u28	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u29	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I was saying that the leftmost parties, the first thing they said was that they were wrong, they lied to them. So where are the lies, lying statements? Oh, my God! Even because I know others! We'll have time to see that. There are several testimonies of people who knew nothing, who only had generic questions, but then they will know in the process that they knew this and much more.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u30	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u31	Mr President, I just want to say that all the information — from the Defence Committee, the Plenary Committee, etc. — it must be referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office and, if necessary, we will be here for a new committee of inquiry. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u32	To close the debate, Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the closing speech of this debate it is important to say that the tank process is much more serious than some try to make believe and perhaps one of the greatest attacks on the credibility of the institutions of our most recent history. As we have seen here, some have tried to take advantage of judicial investigation to prevent the political responsibilities of government members involved in the situation. As they like to say: “To justice what is justice, to politics what is politics”. Well, here we are dealing with politics, with the political scrutiny of this case, since justice cannot be a biombo to hide political responsibilities from government officials in office. As Mr Filipe here said, and very well, this is very important. So, after all, if it's so important, why didn't you want to discuss it earlier? We also heard the Greenman say that it was too serious a matter to debate during the elections. I therefore conclude that serious matters cannot be discussed in elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u34	Get it over with!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u35	They're presented! [[Protests from PS Fernando Rocha Andrade and The Greens José Luís Ferreira.]] I see that management remains well-defined with regard to the covering of government actions. The different incidences of the Tancos case compose a true documentary on the recent history of the Socialist Party. First they didn't take care of the security of the countries, despite alerts for that. The austerity and captivity of Centeno came up to the overcrowded wire of Tanks. Then, for weeks, they tried to hide and spread their political responsibilities in the case, now blaming previous decision makers, or military men who, on the ground, tried to make eggless omelets. They then tried to make arms recovery a number of political propaganda that used and abused the obedience of the leaders of the Armed Forces branches and whose epilogue was a press conference never seen in Saint Benedict. Typically socialist: they tried to ignore and make an unprecedented embarrassment at a political propaganda festival. on the way, we knew, however, that the services under the protection of the Minister of Defence did not respect the decisions of justice and in particular of the Public Prosecutor and the former Attorney-General of the Republic, Joana Marques Vidal, which reveals only the lack of command and lack of respect for the rule of law that fattened the political command of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u36	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u37	Then came the Commission of Inquiry into the theft of ammunition in Tankos, whose report, and taking into account the data we already know today, embarrasss this House and the prestige gained by the committees of inquiry. in this particular, the cover was with the precious collaboration of the PCP and the Left Block. And the Left Block said that in this Commission there were many people who were accused and could not make statements. There it is: Azeredo Lopes was not accused and, by the way, it deceived the commission of inquiry. Today, and in view of the facts and details that are public, we have the clear conviction that Azeredo Lopes knew, after all, much more than he revealed in the Committee of Inquiry and that he did not hide it even from some socialist leaders. There seems to be no doubt that the then Minister of Defence lied in Parliament and in particular in the Committee of Inquiry. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] I also recall that the Chief of the Prime Minister's Office assumed in this Committee of Inquiry that Antonio Costa knew the famous memorandum, which was not relevant to the final report. Despite the postponement of a debate that should have taken place before the elections today, there is no doubt that the government has known everything since the first hour. Does anyone then believe that, on such an important subject, so publicized, so discussed, so controversial, the Prime Minister was not properly informed by the Minister of Defence? Or didn't the Minister of Defence tell you everything and he wasn't loyal to you? Of two, one : either the government was on a free-run basis and the Prime Minister did not follow the most controversial, more debated issues and was obliged to pronounce himself or, then, Antonio Costa was informed, had knowledge and was as responsible as Azeredo Lopes for this mess. This case and the various experiences it has experienced composes the usual agenda of the Socialist Party. It is a film of political terror whose script is so hollywoodish that it seems impossible. This plot has everything: plot, conspiracy, abuse of power, conditioning of justice, propaganda and even special effects. They are not mortal sins, as it is known, but usual of a PS besides any redemption. Unfortunately, it's the custom. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u38	We have thus reached the end of point 2 of our agenda, which is the basis for this meeting. The votes are followed, which will certainly be swift but unfortunate, insofar as we will vote several votes of regret. I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read Vote No 883 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Prof. Dr. Diogo Freitas do Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The death of Diogo Pinto de Freitas do Amaral leaves mourning for Portuguese democracy, which helped to establish and consolidate. The founder of the CDS was fundamental in the constitution and implementation of democracy, bringing, in its clear, calm and courageous form, the principles of European Christian democracy for the national political debate. It was also the first to defend integration into the European project on 19 July 1974 in the foundation of the CDS. He was also founder, with Francisco Sá Carneiro and Gonçalo Ribeiro Teles, of the Democratic Alliance, in 1979. Remarkable lawyer, professor of the Faculty of Law of Lisbon and then founder and first director of the Faculty of Law of the New University of Lisbon, has dedicated himself, since the most troubled time, to make his contribution to Portugal, who served as a constituent deputy, Member of the Assembly of the Republic, State Counsellor, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Prime Minister and Acting Prime Minister, in the VI Constitutional Government, Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister, in the VII Constitutional Government, and Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, in the XVII Constitutional Government. His candidacy for the presidency of the Republic, in 1986, was a historic moment in Portuguese democratic policy. Diogo Freitas do Amaral was also internationally recognized and was elected President of 50. the United Nations General Assembly. After his vote in 1992 in favour of the Maastricht Treaty, Diogo Freitas do Amaral disbanded the CDS. Nevertheless, he took part in the 40-year anniversary of the CDS, saying : « If at some point the party went further to the centre-right and I to the center-left », everyone remained « honestly within the broad spectrum covered by European and world Christian democracy », «we can all look at each other and greet each other without any embarrassment or distrust. We continue brothers, though separated». The Assembly of the Republic presents the most heartfelt condolences to its family, friends and disciples, as well as the profound tribute to Diogo Freitas do Amaral, one of the founders of democracy, a man of state, a remarkable academic and a fundamental figure of European Christian democracy".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u40	We shall vote for this vote, presented by the CDS-PP. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We will now proceed to Vote No 884 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — Regret for the death of João Gaspar. To read this vote, you have the floor to Ms. Secretary of the Bureau, Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last September 21, at the age of 82, João Carlos Vieira Gaspar. A citizen of great merit, dedicated his life to building a better society. His social and political intervention gained respect and admiration throughout the community. Natural of Seiza, Ourem, lived in the Town Hall of Vila Franca de Xira since 1959. He started his professional activity as a car mechanic, passing through the metal-mechanical and chemical industry. Its route is closely linked to accessibility and transport, having exercised various management and administration positions, with emphasis on TST — Transports South of the Roof. He was a member of the Transtejo and Soflusa Board of Directors, an administrator of the Sulbus and Trailos do Mundo companies and a member of the eventual Accessibility and Transport Commission of the Lisbon Metropolitan Assembly. He was a citizen dedicated to the democratic life of the council and the country, integrating the municipal chamber executive as a councilman and having presided over the municipal assembly. He was also a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the X legislature. Militant of the Socialist Party, he was a member of the National Commission in several mandates. at the commemoration of the 45 years of April 25, the City Hall of Vila Franca de Xira awarded him the Medal of Honor of the Municipality, giving a fair tribute that recognized his example of citizenship, integrity and sense of justice, in parallel with a deep sense of humanity. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its condolences to the bereaved family and deeply regrets the death of João Carlos Vieira Gaspar".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u42	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Let us now vote vote No 885 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PS ) — Regret of the death of Manuela Silva. To read this vote again has the floor to Ms. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last Monday at 87 years of age, Manuela Silva. Born June 26, 1932, in Cascais, Manuela Silva graduated and was a professor at the Higher Institute of Economics and Management. He was responsible for the creation of the Master's degree in Economics and Social Policy in the early 1990s and in 2013 received the honorary doctorate caused by the Technical University of Lisbon. He dinamized some studies on the reality of poverty in Portugal, having also been a member of various movements of the Catholic Church, namely the Grail, the international movement of Catholic women in the 1960s, founder and President of the CRC — Christian Reflection Center and President of the International Movement of Catholic Intellectuals / Pax Romana, the Catholic Catholic Youth and the National Justice and Peace Commission. He also created the Betania Foundation in 1990, and still belonged to the educational commission of the Joint House Care Network, which he helped to create. Manuela Silva was Secretary of State for Planning in the Constitutional Government, worked in several working groups within the European Commission and the Council of Europe and chaired the General Assembly of CESIS — Centre for Social Intervention Studies. Author of several works, organized and collaborated in publications dedicated to themes of spirituality and economic and social themes. In March 2000 he was thanked with the degree of the Great Cruz of the Order of the Child D. Henrique by the then President of the Portuguese Republic, Jorge Sampaio. Presently, he was a member of the General Council of the Technical University of Lisbon and a member of the General Council of Montepio. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in the Permanent Commission on 8 October 2019, expresses its regret at the death of Manuela Silva, transmitting its condolences to its relatives, friends and institutions ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u44	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, we also have one last vote, vote No 886 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Avelino Ferreira Torres. Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, has the floor to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died yesterday, at the age of 74, Avelino Ferreira Torres, natural of Rebordelo, Amarante, and former President of the City Hall of Marco de Canaveses. Historically conciliatory and district leader of the CDS, he competed with the presidency of Marco de Canaveses in 1983, having conquered successive majority until 2005. Later, he competed, as independent, with the presidency of the Municipal Chamber of Amarante and later again with Marco de Canaveses, where his independent list elected two councillors. In 2016 he abandoned the local political activity for health reasons. In politics as in sport, Avelino Ferreira Torres was also president of the Football Club of Marco and member of the National Arbitration Council of the Portuguese Football Federation. The Assembly of the Republic presents condolences to its family and friends for the death of Avelino Ferreira Torres on 8 October”.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u46	We shall vote for this vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the regrets that we have just voted, we will take a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 2278 / XIII / 4. a ( President of the HR ) — Move of the President of the Republic to the Italian Republic and Paris. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Finally, we have the vote on two opinions of the Ethics Sub-Commission, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, will make it clear. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first opinion refers to case No 5958 - 19.3T9LSB, to be held in the Public Prosecutor's Office, Attorney-General of the Republic, Procedural Intervention Section, and is in the interest of authorising Mr Luís Leite Ramos ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u48	Let's vote for this first opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the second opinion refers to case No 2872 / 19.6T9LSB, to be held in the Public Prosecutor's Office, Attorney-General of the Republic, Procedural Intervention Section, and is in the interest of authorising Mrs. Deputies José de Matos Rosa, Ulisses Pereira and Duarte Marques ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-10-09.u50	We shall vote for this second opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this extraordinary meeting of the Standing Committee. Some of us will still meet at the Leaders Conference next week. Those who are not in the first plenary session of the next Parliament, today being the last day they are here, I wish for the greatest personal happiness. The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 6 minutes.]]
