ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is an election of a member to the National Defence Superior Council. Like what happened last week, the polls will be open until half an hour after the end of today's meeting. The agenda for today is a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister : over the years it has been proven that privatization is a ruinous business for the people and the country and, at the same time, an open field for corruption through the millionaire businesses in which economic groups appropriate themselves to important public enterprises and strategic sectors. The privatization of CTTs ( Correios de Portugal ), made by PSD and CDS, is a flagrant example of this reality. Except for private shareholders, who are extremely satisfied, the rest of the country agrees: privatization is a disaster, postal service is deteriorating.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u3	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u4	They closed 75 stations in 2018, leaving 33 municipalities without any mail station. ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) itself warned that 48 municipalities without post stations will be quickly, recalling that the service is degraded when stations are replaced by posts. In order for TTC shareholders to love more than a few tens of millions of euros of public resources, hundreds of authorities are being threatened by the administration of TTCs that either take part of the costs with the postal network or remain without any access to that network. The private administration of the TTCs has decapitalized the company, delivering the shareholders dividends above the profits recorded and selling to the historical and structural damage. TTC workers affected by the operational sectors are becoming less and less paid. Subsequent reorganisations of the company have as their sole aim the maximum profit through outsourcing of services, reduction of supply, increase in working rhythms and intensification of the exploitation of those who work. Mr Prime Minister, it is increasingly evident that the serious situation that is created only resolves with the recovery by the State of public control of TTCs and the universal postal service. Either progress is made with this decision or the country is at risk of seeing a strategic and essential public service disappear. A year ago, the CFP made this proposal. The government and the PS refused to do so. Today, the situation is even worse, so we again insist on the solution that needs to be taken, and we have already delivered a bill for this purpose. Mr Prime Minister, is the Government determined to advance the recovery of the public control of the CTTs and the universal postal service? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u6	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the honourable Member has always made a distinction between the universal postal service and the TTCs. The universal postal service is a public service of the State, despite being granted. The CTTs are today—bad! — a privatized company. What we have at this time is very clear: there is a concession contract that lasts until next year. ANACOM is legally responsible for monitoring the performance of the contract and ANACOM has acted in order to monitor and impose on CTT the measures it considers appropriate on the basis of the contract signed by the previous Government and which has to be complied with by the TTCs. I think that we should not rush because we have to comply with the rules. The situation is very different from what existed with the TAP, because, as you recall, at the beginning of this legislature, the contract of privatization of the TAP was not completed. The situation is also very different from what existed with the sub-concessions of the Caris or the STCP ( Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port ), which were not yet completed because they had not yet had the prior visa of the Court of Auditors. This one was fully executed, fully met. There's a contract and we have to fulfill and respect the contract. And above all, we cannot put ourselves in the position to offer to the private an apology to accuse the State of breach of the contract, which must be scrupulously complied with, and we all have to expect ANACOM to maintain the demanding position it must have with regard to the performance of the contract. Clearly, this is a good example of the contradiction between an economic vision and a vision of a public service that cannot be limited to the economic criterion. It is that objectively, this is a case where mail stations that are economically more useful, more profitable, are also those that, from a territorial and social point of view, are certainly less necessary. There is one station in the City square and another in the Restorers, but certainly we would all live with only one. However, they do not close because they are the economically most profitable. Now, there cannot be a post, a TTC station in each village and in every municipality of our country, in areas of low population density, in the most abandoned areas, where it may not be economically profitable but where the presence of these TTC stations is socially and territorially indispensable. This is a good example of how privatization, in an economical logic of public services, has a very great weight for the country, for territorial cohesion and for the quality of services to populations. So what we have to do is what we have to do: respect the contract. But at the end of the contract, we also have to do what we need to do: evaluate and, depending on the evaluation, decide. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u7	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister : Oxalá, after that balance sheet, is not too late. Prime Minister, the CFP was able to include an amount in the State budget to particularly increase family allowances for children from three to six years old and to extend the prenatal allowance to pregnant women from 4 years old. the income step, in addition to its normal increase. The PCP defends that family allowance is universal, a right of all families, children and young people. It has not yet been this time, but important steps have been taken during this legislature, either in the increase in amounts or in the number of children covered. We know that family allowances do not solve the tragedy of child poverty in our country. What would really solve it would be to increase wages, from then on the national minimum wage of 650 € for all workers, but also to eradicate precariousness and value public services. But it is not understood why the government does not implement what this House decided for 2019. Why does it take time for the increases to take place? The month of January has passed and in social security services no one commits to a date. We have no doubt that the government will try to correct the delay by paying retroactively. The problem is that the time of a pregnancy or the life of a small child passes much faster than that of other phases of life. It is not the same for a pregnant woman to receive an prenatal allowance from 13 weeks and to know what she has in the following months for the expenses to be incurred when there is a new baby in a family, or to receive the retroactives when the child already has teeth. So, Prime Minister, I ask: when will social security begin to pay what this House has decided? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, the fight against child poverty was the priority axis of combating poverty defined by the Government and we have continued with various measures, particularly with a very significant investment in improving family allowance. at this moment, the situation we have is an administrative processing situation, which will allow the liquidation, during the month of February, of the new family allowance and its payment in March, with retroactive effects to January. Therefore, with the exception of a great precocious growth of the child, the mother will receive the family allowance even before the child has teeth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u11	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa is still speaking. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister : Good. We'll see. Finally, Prime Minister, the recent events in the Chícharos Valley, also called « Jamaican neighborhood », naturally arouse our concerns. The CFP will not feed generalization currents that take advantage of individual actions and behaviors to promote racist and xenophobic feelings against communities of citizens whose rights must be respected without discrimination and who need to respond to their labour and social problems, including housing, as is happening when about 200 residents are re-accommodated, already placed in their homes. We also refuse to feed other generalization currents that take advantage of force-use situations by security forces to launch unfair labels on all security forces professionals and that the generality of these professionals does not deserve. Police violence should be fully investigated, situations of arbitrary or unjustified violence and other unacceptable practices should be prevented, combated and eliminated, but should not be instrumentalized. Security forces have an irreplaceable role to play in ensuring the safety and tranquillity of the people and the conditions for the exercise of rights by the citizens and workers' rights. This is the role that security forces must play and, for this, the working conditions of these professionals also need to be valued. We discussed, last week, a proposal from the CFP that would respond to a series of serious health and safety problems at work that affects the professionals of the security forces and services, including even the scourge of the suicides that have occurred.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u13	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. He wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u14	PS, PSD and CDS voted against this PCP proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u15	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u16	Mr. Prime Minister, in order to have peace and security, we must also take care of the rights of those with this responsibility and mission. Therefore, follow this effort not only with a characterization, not only with words of circumstance, laudable or less praiseworthy, but also seeing the underlying causes that relate to the status, careers, schedules and health of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u17	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u18	So, Prime Minister, give an answer and we'll see that democracy will eventually succeed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u19	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u20	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, let us be clear: the most important in relation to the Chícharos Valley, the so-called « Jamaica neighborhood », is even the fact that we have begun and started to realize in December in a joint effort of the Government and the City Council of Sixal, the re-housing operation of those hundreds of families who have been living in absolutely degrading and humanly unacceptable conditions for decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In December last year, the first 64 families were relocated and I had the privilege of, together with President Joaquim Santos being there in the neighborhood, being able to visit the neighborhood, being able to talk to the families and see the new places where the families were relocated. This is truly important in combating the causes of exclusion that feed tension situations that need to be eradicated from our society. It's not worth an illusion. Here, it is even a problem of social conditions, of the conditions in which people live, what happens there as happens in the neighborhood of Bela Vista, as happens in many neighborhoods of the city of Lisbon, as happens in many neighborhoods of other municipalities around the city of Lisbon. And what we have to do is step up measures to combat poverty and social exclusion and strengthen social cohesion. Secondly, it is absolutely essential that we all maintain serenity, cold head and high responsibility. « A doll does not make spring», i.e. it is not an incivility behavior in a neighborhood that allows to classify an entire community...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u22	... and it is not the violence of a police officer that allows the prestige, honor, admiration, respect and trust we have in our security forces, in the PSP (PSP) and in the Republican National Guard. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Therefore, with the responsibility well demonstrated in his words, with all calmness and determination, we must continue to do what is important to do: first, to redeploy all the families that live in the neighborhood of Jamaica, guaranteeing them all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u23	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u24	... in the next two years, living conditions and living conditions with dignity; secondly, to continue strengthening men, means, equipment, facilities, improving the working conditions of our security forces; and thirdly, to always wage a relentless fight against racism, xenophobia and all that means diminishing respect for the dignity of the human person, who has to be respected alive where he lives and who he is. This is a sacred value that we must be able to respect. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u25	To put questions on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u26	Mr President, I welcome Mr Prime Minister and all of you. Members of the Government. Mr. Prime Minister, I cannot but begin by referring to the problem of the Jamaican neighborhood. Today, we have a public safety problem in Portugal and the latest news reports a bus and 30 ecopoints burned down after being shot at a police station. Mr Prime Minister, this is serious, and in Portugal it is very serious, because social peace is a constant in Portuguese society. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the PSD does not see itself in racist or violent practices, come from where they come from, but also does not see itself in free threats to security forces. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u27	I even use it to give a compliment and a word of appreciation to the security forces for the work they do in order to ensure the physical security of all of us and our material goods. [[PSD applause.]] The security forces deserve to do so and are pleased with the exemplary work they do in Portuguese society. However, Mr. Prime Minister, I cannot allow the insulting precipitation of the Left Block against the Public Security Police to go blank,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u28	...in such a way, that the very leader of the Socialist Party's bench, Mr. Carlos César, came to say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u29	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u30	... I repeat, however, that the party supporting the Government — referring to the Left Block — "is disturbing the intervention of law enforcement forces to ensure public tranquillity". Mr. Prime Minister, do you see these statements? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u31	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u32	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, Portugal is today due to a collective effort by the entire national community in recent decades, the fourth safest country in the world. in recent years, consecutively, serious and violent crime has been reducing, as is recorded in each Annual Internal Security Report, and that is how it has to continue to be. This has been possible because there has been, formally or informally, a great convergence since the reform of the security forces and in particular the Public Security Police began in 1996. It is this continuity and stability of the vision of the party forces as a whole on the issues of internal security that have made it possible to achieve this result. We should not, therefore, devalue any act of incivility or violence, nor can we dramatize it, transforming what is, fortunately, an exception. The same is true of security forces: in a state of democratic law, security forces and police are not a threat to freedom, they are the guarantee of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, our side is always that of the security forces, because this is the side of freedom, democracy and respect for democratic legality, that is the space of citizenship. Security forces do not exist to be enemies of citizens, there are, yes, to protect citizens and to ensure their safety, which is an invaluable asset, and that is what they do every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Whenever there is apparently incorrect behavior, it must be investigated and, if it has been incorrect, it must be punished, not only in the name of the same democratic legality, but also in defense of the good name and prestige of the security forces. Therefore, what is recommended in circumstances like this is not the dream of being reproduced in Portugal scenes such as those that television brings us from other corners of the world. Yes, we have the desire and the will to correspond—as it did yesterday, the family living in the Valley of Chícharos who saw some of their family members being attacked by the security forces—to call for calm, serenity, dialogue, in order to restore social peace, which is what matters to all to preserve, in the name of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u33	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, in fact, it is the social peace that we must preserve, it is the social peace that we must maintain. However, Prime Minister, there is a party that supports this government, whose positions you support, which has had a condemnable reaction to these events.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u35	Condemned is your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u36	Condemned were the threats I received!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u37	This situation cannot even go blank, Prime Minister! The party we are talking about, the Left Block, today has special responsibilities in Portuguese society and the Prime Minister cannot white-wash them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u39	I insist again, asking : Mr. Prime Minister, do you or do you not see yourself in the statements of the parliamentary leader of your party? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u40	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u41	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, but have you ever seen differences between me and Mr Carlos César on any essential subject? Oh, my God! [[PS's laughter and applause.]] [[We've seen it now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u42	I would even say that, 90% of the time, I feel the spokesman of Carlos César's thought... [[PS laughter.]] ...and Carlos César is, as a rule, the qualified interpretation of my own thought. What's the question, sir? What's the question? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u43	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is therefore clear that the Left Block is disturbing the intervention of law enforcement forces, who have to ensure public tranquillity. And this must be condemned! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u45	Whoever's disturbed is the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u46	unlike the Communist Party, which has a very correct position on this matter, the Left Block has a position that must be condemned. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I'm going back to health. Unfortunately, I have to go back to health. It's not what you want, but I have to go back to health. [[PS's, BE's, PCP's and Greens' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u47	Maybe I'll have better luck!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u48	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u49	The Socialist Party laughs, which is a curious thing when we speak in the painful state to which health and the National Health Service have arrived, because of the responsibility of the government presided over by you. Mr. Prime Minister, I am going to talk to you about a topic that I would say was the origin of the creation of the National Health Service: infant mortality. This week, we learned that the situation of infant mortality has only worsened, and this is one of the most important items to aquilate the degree of development of a country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u51	Mr Prime Minister, from 2017 to 2018, the infant mortality rate increased by 26 % — 26 %, Prime Minister! last year, in Portugal, more than 60 children died in the first year of life than in the previous year. Please, Prime Minister, do not hide in statistics, do not hide in confirmations, do not hide in delays and tell me what is being done to reverse this trend. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u52	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u53	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, one thing I can assure you is that at the origin of the National Health Service is not the PSD, because you voted against the creation of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u54	It's life!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u55	Therefore, it is very important that the Health Bases Act, which is under discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, be approved not by a majority but by the majority who created, supported, defended and developed the National Health Service, most in which you are not included. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u56	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u57	I wanted to take this opportunity to tell you that we had the opportunity to verify the information you gave us about the situation of the Penafiel hospital and the Hospital Center of the Thamega and Sousa, which, as I said 15 days ago, would be serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u58	Is it settled?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u59	currently, the Minister of Health is working, together with the administration of this Hospital Center, to respond to the need to continue to reduce waiting times. Fortunately, already last year they were reduced and, of course, will be reduced by returning to the service of two cardiologists who were on parental leave. Despite this, new measures need to be taken because these times are unacceptable. As for the increase in infant mortality, of course, this is a worrying fact that requires, as Mrs. General Health Director has said, a technical assessment of a long series. I do not want to reproduce the technocratic language with which the Director-General expressed himself, but we cannot make assessments on the evolution of infant mortality due to its inter-annual variations. With regard to trends, we need to analyze what happened, what happened, and find the right technical answer to explain it. Only with the good technical response can we adopt the political measures not to pretend that we are solving the problem but to effectively solve the problem technically identified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u60	Mr Fernando Negrão, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, we may have voted against the National Health Service, but we immediately adhere to it. Now, whoever's destroying it is you Exa, it's your government! [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u62	You are destroying the National Health Service, no doubt about that! [[Protests of PS and PCP MEP Rita Rato.]] Prime Minister, child mortality is too serious a problem for you to switch it by appointment. Mr. Prime Minister, last year in Portugal, more than 60 children died in the first year of life than in the previous year. Prime Minister, what is the government doing to reverse this trend? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u63	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not 'we can have voted against', they have voted against it! They voted against it! [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] It's not a chance, it really happened! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As regards infant mortality, the Directorate-General for Health is, as it may be,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u65	Doing what?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u66	... to analyze the causes and the evolution of political measures to be appropriate to the causes and do not simply serve to pretend that it is done, without effectively solving the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u67	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u68	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are not trying to destroy the National Health Service, you are actually destroying the National Health Service! [[PSD applause.]] The National Pharmacy Association tells us that 48, 3 million packs of medicines were missing in 2017. And he adds that in 2018 there were 64, 1 million packs of medicines to patients, that is, much more than in the previous year. Some of these packs of medicines that patients do not find in the pharmacy in recent years are considered essential by the World Health Organization and put them at risk. A significant part of the missing medicines is subject to medical prescription. What's going on, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u69	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u70	Mr. President, Mr. Member, we are rebuilding the National Health Service ( SNS )... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] ... rest the cuts that had been made in the previous legislation, having today in the Service more 9000 professionals than those who existed. Only last year was 50 % of the debts reduced to suppliers. And that is how we will continue to do: more professionals, better facilities, more financial sustainability. This is how we reconstruct the National Health Service, while diversifying its activity, either by strengthening primary care, or by strengthening continued care. This is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u71	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u72	Mr. Prime Minister, I asked you a question about the lack of medicines in the pharmacy. Patients want to buy the medicines prescribed by their doctors and do not find them in the pharmacy. I will give you examples, Prime Minister : Sinemet, recommended for Parkinson's patients, a medicine that the Portuguese patients have most difficulty in finding in pharmacy, having registered more than 1 million and 300,000 unanswered requests; Tragenta, who fights diabetes, was the second most missing; Aspirin GR, recommended for patients with thrombosis and infarctions, was the third. Mr. Prime Minister, what's going on? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u73	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u74	Mr. Deputies, what happens is that we reject the cut investment. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u75	last year, health expenditure for the first time exceeded EUR 10 billion, an increase of 4, 9 % compared to the previous year. What is happening, Mr Fernando Negrão, is that there have been changes in commercial practices and distribution circuits thanks to the policy of the medicine, which ceases to undermine public finances and, indeed, weakens taxpayers...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u76	Don't run away from responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u77	... and what is required, yes, is a good business organization, good marketing circuits and not pay the inefficiency of these same circuits at the cost of the taxpayer. That's not why the National Health Service serves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u78	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u79	Mr. Prime Minister, and what does the government do to prevent Portuguese patients, sick people, from going to the pharmacy and from finding medicines? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u80	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u81	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u82	Mr President, we have already reduced the debt to suppliers by 50 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u83	Mr Fernando Negrão, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u84	Mr. Prime Minister, people do not want to know that the government has reduced the medicines they are looking for by 50 %. Portuguese patients want to go to a pharmacy and have the medicines available.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u85	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u86	Mr Prime Minister, what have you done and what will the government do about this? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u87	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u88	Mr President, I assure you that the government will not open pharmacies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u89	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u90	Mr. Prime Minister, your answer is proof that Mr. Prime Minister has no answer to the problems of the Portuguese. There's no answer! [[PSD applause.]] And it has no answer to a particularly serious problem, which is that of the medicines for Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister has no solution to giving the Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, make it clear that you have no answer or solution to this problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u91	Mr. Prime Minister, please answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u92	Mr President, the State cannot allow itself to be captured by the commercial strategies of laboratories and distribution companies of pharmaceutical circuits. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u93	No, we don't get caught! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u94	Mr Fernando Negrão, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u95	Mr. Prime Minister, it is a inhumanity that answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u97	It is a inhumanity the answers you have given to my last questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u99	Insensitivity! You have hair in your heart!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u101	You know what this means? I mean, it's insensitive! Mr. Prime Minister has a neoliberal speech! [[PS laughter.]] Mr Prime Minister does not want to intervene in the policy of medicine in Portugal! Mr. Prime Minister doesn't want to answer our country's patients! Mr. Prime Minister, I insist on the question: what do you want to do to solve this problem? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u102	It is inhumane to cut into human resources, as you have done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u103	Mr. Prime Minister, please answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u104	No, sir, it is not insensibility! Open... [[Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u105	It is that in order to care for the patients, to ensure the sustainability of the National Health Service, to defend the taxpayers, we do not take the patronage of the cause of pharmaceuticals, because that, yes, may be their cause, but ours is the cause of the people, the cause of the patients, the cause of people who need health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u106	Mr Fernando Negrão, who still has a few seconds to speak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u107	Mr. Prime Minister, you forgot about the Portuguese! The Prime Minister has reached a point of his governance where what he is interested in is purely rhetorical speeches on security and, in this case, on drug policy. About the Portuguese, not a word, not a solution, not a measure. Mr President, I repeat, today he has demonstrated his social insensitivity to the problems of the Portuguese! It's become as clear as ever! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u108	It is the time of the PS Parliamentary Group to put questions to Mr Prime Minister. To that end, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, we are in the last year of this legislature, a legislation in which we reject hopes, we reduce poverty and social and territorial inequalities, in which we have brought vitality to the economy and helped companies become more innovative, more capitalized, more internationalized and more job-generating, in which we are seeking to reverse the trend of public services degradation, such as the National Health Service, successively decapitalized since the end of the last decade. [[PSD protests.]] I see the missing medicine is Xanax! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We know that there are always problems to be solved or that other obligations always call us, for example, those of the support we have given to the Portuguese community in Venezuela. But we are finishing a legislation in which most Portuguese, like the most varied international institutions, recognize the good results achieved so far. However, who could only hear, in recent months, the voice of the CDS leader and, in the last eight days, the vocal re-arrangement in the leadership of the PSD, we would think that we would now be at the bottom of the well. And, of course, for them, all that is bad is always the government's fault and all that is good or work of chance or mere propaganda and electoralism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Don't! Don't! The voices of these unfortunate speakers who, as Junqueiro would say, live « both of the same skeptical utilitarianism, like two halves of the same zero», do not even deal with the virtue of the alert and little better than a comma behind the truth. We may not yet live in Portugal that we most wish, but Portugal that we already have, with the Government of the Socialist Party, is much better than the weakened and discouraged country we found at the beginning of this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we have worked. this week, when the budget surplus was the highest in the European Union, I was reminded to know whether for this we had not returned to the old CDS and PSD recipe, which made the lives of people and families a torment and the life of companies an almost impossible mission. Then I remembered the improvements in the lives of Nuno, Mariana, Augusta, John, Hugo and André's grandfather, about which I told you exactly a year and a month ago, also in the 15th-year debate. I went to find out how they are, if better or worse, to tell you. Nuno — do you remember? — that in 2017 it had ceased to be at risk of poverty, it has, however, renewed its employment contract. Now you have a contract without a term, like another 276 000 workers on behalf of others,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u110	... that over the last three years have ceased to work in precariousness. He and his family now live with more confidence the next day and we know that this was due to the conditions created by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mariana, who was unemployed and who in 2017 found a job, although with the national minimum wage, saw her salary strengthened by 7, 7 % in 2018 and 2019. Now, it doesn't make much, but it's already 600 €! His brother Pedro, who received the minimum wage for several years, told him that in this fourth year of the Socialist Party government, his salary was increased by 95 €. Augusta — Do You Remember? — that in 2017, finally at the end of five years, found a job, saw its average net monthly income increase in 2018. In addition, with two minor children, one attending 6. the year and the other on 9. the year, feel a relief in expenses with the education of your youngest son, due to the free of charge of school textbooks. And next year, Augusta knows that these expenses will also be relieved, because her older son will benefit from the same measure. She is also pleased because since all her family travels on a daily basis with public transport, this year will have a reduction in social passes. You've made your bills and you think you'll save about €1300 annually in your shopping cart—it's more than €100 per month than you even give to save and think about other applications later. All this happens, fortunately for many families, with the Government of the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]] John, the young man I told you about in December 2017, when he was still unemployed and who at the time counted on the full unemployment allowance, also got a job, like 340 000 other people in these three years. John joined the 93 000 young people who had stopped studying and not working and already thought about their entry into higher education, because for the coming academic year there will be a reduction in the maximum value of the tip of 19, 5 %. As you can go to a higher school located in the country, you can count on a tax relief at the headquarters of IRS and a deduction of the charges with the rented house. All this is happening during the Socialist Party Government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The grandfather of André, with a low pension and discounts of a lifetime, 40 years, has seen his reform increase since January 2016, but complains that the pension is still small. The grandson has already told him: « O grandpa, you're right is only €230 this year than in 2015, but don't forget that with the CDS and PSD, you've had your reform frozen for five years and now, with the PS, it's improving ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Hugo — Hugo, remember? —, which returned in 2017, after five years of forced emigration, created one of more than 40 000 companies formed in 2018. Hugo, with a small company that began to divide with his partner Fernando, is very pleased because this year ends the obligation of the PEC (Special Payment by Account) and is eliminated the minimum collection of IRC from the simplified regime. But this is also the year in which Luís — yes, Luís — could return thinking over the next five years, because his colleague Hugo told him that he was created an incentive for immigrants, the Return Programme, which allows him to pay IRS only half of his income, and that also happened with the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, telling Mr. Prime Minister that what matters now is whether today you can tell Nuno, Mariana, Augusta, John, Andre's grandfather, Hugo, Fernando and Luís that the good they have known is a greater good and that will be protected with the continued governance of the Socialist Party. I trust, Mr Prime Minister, that your answer will be « yes ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u112	Mr President, Mr César, your speech demonstrates how this governance has been focused on people, not as a rhetorical figure - which is what Mr César, 15-day-old Fernando Negrão, does when he is a « fox » in a card to try to show that he is concerned – but in people. But this concern did not occur for four years when you cut and frozen pensions, when you cut wages and frozen careers, when you increased moderate rates, when you reduced social support measures and, in particular, poverty reduction measures. Yes, social insensitivity was what marked the previous governance, associated with an absolute disregard for people's concrete lives. It was even sublime in that great sentence of the then parliamentary leader Luís Montenegro when he said: « Portugal is better, people are worse». As if Portugal were not Portuguese and Portuguese and as if our country could ever be better when our people are worse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have to work for people and it's people we have to be focused on. The truth is that this is the case: Nuno, Mariana, Pedro, who, in the meantime, have found work, are among the 341 000 jobs that have been created. Many are among the 87 % in which they were created not precariously, but with contract, with stability. Augusta, which already benefits from the freeness of school textbooks and will benefit from the reduction of the social pass, also benefits, like all others, from the 25% reduction in moderate rates, because they talk a lot about health but speak little about how SNS is more accessible today, while the Portuguese are paying a lower moderate rate today. It's true! [[P.S.'s applause.]] John is certainly one of the more than 15 000 higher education students we have today and who has gone away from higher education for economic reasons but not only because the PSD and CDS wanted to convince Portuguese society that it is not worth studying, because the country did not have the ability to offer and create qualified jobs to respond to the more qualified workforce. Now, what the Portuguese once again have been able to believe, and fortunately more and more, is that by investing more in the education of their children they will have a better future, better for their children, for their grandchildren and for themselves, because the whole country will be more prosperous and will have more education than before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, we will continue to work for Nuno, for Mariana, for Peter, for Augusta, for John, for André's grandfather, for Hugo, for Luís, for Fernando. We will continue to work for them all for a fundamental reason, Mr. Carlos César: is that we know that the country today is better than it was. But this is not yet the country we ambition, this is not the country we dream about. We therefore say: « We are better, but we must continue to work to continue improving the country ». That's what we have to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because we do not ignore that, at the same time as there are 341 000 new jobs, there are still hundreds of thousands of Portuguese seeking jobs. Because we do not know that if 180 000 families have already left poverty, we still have a very high rate of poverty. Because we know that, if it is true that, in 2016 and 2017, inequalities have already decreased, the level of inequalities in Portugal continues to be intolerable and one of the highest in Europe. It is true that we have reduced the number of children leaving school early, but still 12% of children leaving school prematurely is still something we cannot accept and we must continue to work to reduce even more. And so successively and in particular in the health sector, because if it is true that, in these 40 years of the National Health Service, health gains are absolutely extraordinary, we also know that today's demographic reality imposes a new requirement on us for the National Health Service, to which we have to give an added response. Therefore, we must continue to work to improve the National Health Service. Today, it is not enough to recover what the right has destroyed, we must recover what the right has destroyed and do more in order to respond to the new needs of the Portuguese population in relation to the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u113	What about bankruptcy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u114	This is how we must continue to work, step by step, ensuring that the country cannot alternate situations of great expansion with recession situations, situations of good control of public finances with broken situations in its public finances. We must therefore continue to have more growth, better employment, greater equality and accurate accounts. That is an absolutely decisive factor, and that is what the right does not forgive us. The right, which accused us, when we arrived at the government, that we would have an economic strategy that would lead to what they designated as bankruptcy, with a brutal increase in public investment and, after all, giving everyone everything to the end of the legislature censoring us because we do not have enough public investment and because we are not giving everything to everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the most charged thing is to see that right, which took everything away from everyone, now to support all the struggles that appear, as if, suddenly, everything was possible, and already, for everyone. Now, we must maintain this enormous added value that has been achieved in the last three years: to give citizens and citizens peace of mind on their daily lives; to stop agreeing anxiously with the idea that, when they turn on the radio, they would listen to Minister Cristos or Minister Maria Luís to announce new increases in taxes, or new cuts in wages, or new freezes in pensions. More: they can have the hope that they themselves, their parents, their children have a future which, year by year, will be able to continue to improve and see, year by year, the commitments that, responsibilityably, we assume, without having, at the same time, the fear of an uncontrolled situation in public finances, but, on the contrary, we can be satisfied to see the international credibility of the Portuguese State restored with a significant reduction in the cost that the country paid for the debt it has accumulated for decades and to reuse this money by investing in what is essential: in education, in health, in improving the quality of life of Portuguese people and in the quality of public services provided to Portugal. Therefore, Mr Carlos César, if in the coming days you will find Nuno or Mariana, Pedro or Augusta, John or André's grandfather Hugo, Fernando or Luís, tell you that yes, you can trust that with stability and determination we will continue the line that we started three years ago, based on the joint positions signed between the PS, The Greens, the PCP and the Left Block on the horizon of a legislature that we will fulfill day by day and that is what we will do until the last day of this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u115	by the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, to put questions, has the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u116	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I must tell you that I too review myself in the statements by Carlos César. I see in last summer's statements about a racist attack in Porto that these situations should not be underestimated. He said even and I quote: "They must be overvalued because this is the obligation of the authorities in a rule of law. We must defend the country we want». And I look at myself, Prime Minister, in the statements you made today when you quote expressly, while not forgetting, the attacked family, because it was an aggression that we saw in the Sixth. So I think everyone here understands why television has given so much importance to a resident's video. Surely there is no one here who does not consider that the PSP Command's decision to initiate an investigation into the incident was sensible. We all know that the security forces, which, throughout the country, perform their function in an exemplary manner,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u117	... shall not be stained by the impunity of those who are not up to their duties. [[Congratulations from BE.]] More: we all know, too, that those young people and that family who feel attacked, to respect security forces — and must respect them! — you must know that there is no impunity. That is how democracy is built. Security is never opposed to human rights! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister has already mentioned, and well, an important plan for the resettlement of families living in Jamaica. This is a situation of exclusion and enormous vulnerability that creates tensions and attention to human rights. This plan is under way and I remember that this Parliament has played a very important role in the dialogue on the situation of the Jamaican neighbourhood. In addition, the Block has engaged in its working group so that, in addition to the authorities who have met to discuss the problem, the Secretary of State of Housing and the City Council of Sixal, the association of residents of this neighborhood was also heard. We always seek solutions with people. I ask you, Prime Minister, whether the Government continues to follow the process to allow the situation in the Jamaican neighborhood to be resolved and all families to be re-hosted by 2022, as planned, and to continue to listen to the residents of the neighborhood. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u118	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u119	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the Government has been accompanying this moment since the first hour. In fact, I had the opportunity to tell publicly how surprised I was by the existence of this reality when I saw the film São Jorge, of Marco Martins. A few days after I saw this film, I went to Jamaica to see what was going on. at the time, I spoke with the Minister of the Environment, we decided to set up and set up the Secretary of State for Housing and we defined programme 1 as a priority in the new generation of housing policies. the law, which aims to ensure to the 26 Portuguese families who live under outrageous conditions that, until 25 April 2024, the date on which we will celebrate the 50 years of April, no family in Portugal will live in conditions without dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This was a very deep work, which was developed with the City Hall of Seixal, with President Joaquim Santos and with the local community in order to find a strategy of reallocation. This strategy will not start, it has already begun to come true. In December, 64 families no longer spent Christmas in those abandoned buildings; on the contrary, they were able to pass it in houses with all dignity. We will continue to fulfil the timetable that is set with the Chamber of the Sixth so as to ensure that that reality disappears. This is a work that is absolutely essential. We are all reminded of how similar situations to those still existed some 20 years ago throughout the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. No one will ever forget what happened on the Mocho farm in the Old Prior. What we have in the neighborhood of Jamaica is a little Quinta do Mocho. If it was possible to win the Mocho farm drama, it will also be possible to solve that situation. That is what we must be committed and focused on, and that is what we will continue to do in the neighborhood of Jamaica, or the valley of Chícharos, and in all places where those conditions still occur, because we must ensure that, when we celebrate the 50th year of April, all Portuguese families will have housing with dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u120	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u121	Mr President, Prime Minister, one of the many demands of the European Union that has withdrawn capacity in our country and has brought us more external dependence was that of privatization. And one of them, the privatization of CTTs, as you will remember, was accepted by PS, PSD and CDS and ended up happening in the worst form PSD/CDS government. A profitable public enterprise with a public service throughout the country was sold by tuta-e-meia. Today, its shareholders, private, distribute dividends more than the profits of the company, are attacking the CTTs, closing mail counters all over the country, degrading service and what the Left Block always said would happen. in fact, what we did was to guarantee the private a bank by tuta-e-meia with the largest number of counters throughout the country, while we were without post office. Mr. Prime Minister, on 20 December 2017, therefore more than a year ago, I asked him whether it was not time to stop what was happening in the TTCs, i.e. to reverse privatisation and ensure the public control of the Posts in Portugal. Mr Prime Minister, at that time, and today, indeed, he said that we should not rush — I do not want to rush, but understand that it has been a year since we had this conversation — and he announced that he had just formed a working group that would assess the situation and decide according to that assessment. Mr Prime Minister, where are the conclusions of the working group on TTCs? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u122	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u123	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, part of this assessment has been made by ANACOM, who has imposed on TTCs, in accordance with the performance of the contract, the obligations which it believes they are not fulfilling. Those are the rules. We may not like them, but we must comply with them. This is the continuity of the Republic: to ensure the fulfilment of contracts, even if we do not agree with them. It is essential that we respect the contracts we have inherited so that we also demand respect, in future, for the contracts we can establish. It is up to ANACOM to monitor the execution of the contract and to compete-CL to us, next year, when the contract is exhausted, to conclude what to do about the future of the universal postal service, which is absolutely necessary to guarantee in a universal way and as a contribution to territorial cohesion and the quality of life of all populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u124	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u125	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government cannot resign to the regulator. The government did not resign to the regulator when I questioned it for another year, and the Prime Minister said that it would set up a working group to assess this issue. However, I must say that I have not yet understood whether or not the working group assessed, whether or not there are conclusions and whether we can know them. It was important, it's been over a year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u126	It's the continuity of the Republic! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u127	At the same time, the regulator itself, which certainly does not replace the government, also says that TTCs are not complying with the concession contract. It is therefore strange that the State is bound by the contract and cannot do anything but and the private can do everything and is not complying with the concession contract. Mr. Prime Minister, what will the government do? Are there any conclusions from the working group or not? Are the CTTs back public? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u128	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u129	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the government does not resign from anything. It happens that, in our legal order, the Executive has been withdrawn and assigned to regulatory entities the supervision of these types of contracts. It is not a single case; it happens in energy, it happens in water and sanitation and it happens in several domains, such as in the communications sector. If you think this is not a good model, it may be a very interesting discussion. I think that no one should resign one day from making the assessment of how this regulatory function is generally exercised. I also have the idea that Parliament has already called on the President of ANACOM, who has already given explanations, and I have also found that ANACOM has imposed a number of guidelines on TTCs. with regard to the government, the time to intervene will be 2020 and when we arrive at that date we will intervene. It is in this context that I said that it is not worth rushing us, deciding at the beginning of 2019 what we should decide in mid 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u130	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u131	Mr President, Prime Minister, I note that the Government regretted the creation of the working group or did not like its conclusions. On the CTTs, the position of the Block remains the same and we will resubmit a proposal for the postal services to be made public again. Mr Prime Minister, the process of regulating precariousness has already given green light to about 10 000 workers, who become bound after years of precariousness. But we are coming to the end of January and we continue to have thousands of processes to analyze, negative answers without grounds that can be considered legitimate and people who have already seen their approved request, the approved wave but who continue to wait for the finances to unlock the money to open their contest, as happens, for example, with the 130 workers of the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere, to whom they said that they would already be working with contract in January. Well, January's over. So, Prime Minister, I ask you: when is Minister Mário Centeno going to allow what has already been decided by the government to be fulfilled? Will the Ministry of Culture ensure that the law is complied with in the RTP in relation to workers in false outsourcing who have been unlawfully refused in the first phase? in education, how many more months will the specialized technicians wait for their situation to be analyzed, given that they are already waiting for year and half? in social security, what is missing in order to regulate the situation of the 270 friends who have been positive for months? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u132	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u133	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, it is not 10,000 precarious, it is already 12,000.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u134	What about the others?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u135	With regard to favourable opinions, 12 723 have already been approved, i.e. 88 %. The process has sometimes been slower, it is true, but it has been running, having already regulated the situation of 7517 workers. And so we will continue to go on unlocking the situations one by one and ensuring what is essential, which is the stability that must be guaranteed to all jobs and that has not happened for decades. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're gonna keep doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u136	Turning to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u137	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me tell you in advance that I hope that the Government will be doing its best to ensure that the interim government of Venezuela is able to organize free and democratic elections to put an end to a dictatorial regime which has condemned the people to poverty and hunger. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u138	Mr Prime Minister, on a subject that was very much discussed yesterday, but on which I must hear it, which concerns the General Deposit Box, let me just remind you that the Government sent the Box to request an audit and then did not want to know about the outcome of this audit. She was sent to the Banco de Portugal and to the Ministry of Public Affairs and we find it strange that the government does not want to know what is coming there, especially because we believe that Parliament, as the representative of the owners of the General Deposit Box, who are all Portuguese, has every right and the duty to vote on what led the Box to difficult situations, the misfortune that forced a great injection of resources from all taxpayers and the country to bankruptcy. And we remember very well those years, which coincided with a socialist government of which Mr. Prime Minister was a member. Will you or will you not allow this report to be sent to Parliament? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u139	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u140	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, my greatest mystery is this: why was it necessary to expect this government to take possession of an audit in June 2016 if during the four years in which it was Minister, this audit was never requested? Why did you do nothing for four years to get the audit? [[P.S.'s applause.]] I believe, moreover, that it is absolutely extraordinary that Mrs Deputy pointed her finger to a government that was the first to have the audit carried out, and that she did so in June 2016. The Government, in February 2017, when the new administration entered into force, said that this audit had to be carried out. And what the government said to the current administration was that it had to be an assistant in the criminal proceedings, so that it could defend the interests of the General Deposit Box. The Government determined to the current administration of the General Deposit Box that should act civilly against any liable to recover damage from the General Deposit Box. How can you, for four years, have been in a government that has done nothing, in which no audit has been done, has no minimum decorum for us not even to put the matter to us in the Assembly of the Republic? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, what you must do is first of all praise this government for having done what your Government has not done, secondly, to trust the institutions of justice to administer justice and not to point your finger to a government that you should be applauding. If you want to point your finger to someone, put it to your old colleague Maria Luís, who was Minister of Finance, who did nothing, that no audit did and was silent before what was happening in the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u141	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u142	Mr President, Prime Minister, your exalted tone only shows that the matter is in fact very uncomfortable for the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is extraordinarily uncomfortable for the Socialist Party! And that is why you denied an audit that was requested by the CDS in this House since your government wanted to recapitalize the Box for the values that were at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u144	It's money from all Portuguese! It's money from all the taxpayers! The House of Democracy has the right to know the reason for the need for this recapitalisation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u145	And, Mr. Prime Minister, I do not understand how it is supported by a majority who, here in June 2017, prevented the continuation of the Committee of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box, which had requested the list of the major debtors of the Box. What's your problem, Prime Minister? Your problem is with your colleagues in the government of José Socrates, that you were part of, and what led the country to bankruptcy? Is that your problem? [[CDS-PP applause.]] He wants me to think so! The government doesn't know, the government doesn't want to know, and the government doesn't let others know! Well, this government doesn't serve the country. That is our opinion, and we will continue to ask and demand that all Portuguese know what happened in those black years of the General Deposit Box. And, Prime Minister, I am proud to have belonged to a government that has removed the country from the socialist bankruptcy that you have helped to create. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But let's go to another point, Mr Prime Minister, which you have devalued here and which has to do with security issues. I think all of us are proud to be in one of the safest countries in the world, and we want this to continue. A country where the forces of authority are respected and where things are going well. But, Prime Minister, unfortunately, what I want to talk about is not an isolated case. There are reports that: ‘Third night of vandalism and insecurity’; « Chaos and shootings following the war in Jamaica’; « Fired bus and car of the attacked PSP »; « PSP in maximum alert against new attacks on squads and cars’; ‘20 ecopoints and trash cans set on fire in escalation of violence’; ‘PSP car stoned in Loures’. Mr Prime Minister, what is it important to ask you is a very simple thing: do you condemn or not these acts of vandalism? Are you defending or not defending the police authority? What will you do to make these, in fact, isolated episodes? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u146	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u147	Mr. President, Mrs. Deputy, I am unworthy, yes! You know patience has limits! Patience has limits! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u148	Mrs Deputy was the minister of a government who in 2012 injected more than EUR 1500 million into the General Deposit Box without making any audit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Deputy gave an interview to the public newspaper where, with the greatest upheaval and will and with total unconsciousness, she said that BES, BANIF and the General Deposit Box were never discussed in the Council of Ministers! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Were you, for four years, a minister of a government who put EUR 1500 million in the Box, taxpayers' money, without any audit and without even discussing it in the Council of Ministers? Mrs Deputy has also said, with great tranquility, that she has approved the draft resolution of the BES without reading it, off the beach, signing cross. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Deputies, a person who reveals this degree of irresponsibility, impreparation and unconsciousness to deal with matters as sensitive as the bank, in fact, exhausts the patience of a saint when he is allowed to come to talk about the bank after what we have done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the rest, Mrs. Member, you are looking at me, and it must certainly be by the color of my skin that asks me whether I condemn or not condemn acts of vandalism in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from the CDS-PP, having hand-strengthened Members at the end of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to be calm and moderate in our speeches, since the honourable Members. Members of the Prime Minister. I therefore ask that such conclusions should not be used in this debate. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u150	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am not going to respond to the final comment because I was ashamed of myself. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I was Minister of Agriculture for four years of government and you are Prime Minister of this government. Let me tell you that when you want to trade places with me, then I answer everything about the banking sector, which will be naturally and directly under my responsibility. And I am going to tell you something else, Prime Minister: I am proud to have been part of a government that saved the country from bankruptcy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u151	You should not be proud to have been the right arm of José Socrates, who led the country to bankruptcy. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But, Prime Minister, let me move on to another issue that I also know is very uncomfortable to you, which is the subject of health. I am not going back to the news, unfortunately bad, whether it is about infant mortality, whether it is about strikes, or about the closure of hospital pharmacies, particularly in the north. I won't talk about it. at this time, we are with a Health Bases Act that will go down to the Commission without a vote, and I hope it will be to be able to be improved, reflecting, in particular, the role of the informal caregiver and the dynamics of aging. But I will ask you a very simple question: there are four hospitals in the National Health Service that have private management and are assessed as the best in providing care to patients and the best in the efficient use of public resources. Will you or will you not finish that? Will you or will you not put the ideology in front of the quality? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u152	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, either as an agricultural minister or as an education minister, a minister is seated in the Council of Ministers. She voted for a resolution on BES, cross, unread, off the beach... [[CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member says, with all ease, that this is something that has not even been discussed in the Council of Ministers. Madam Member, you were not only agricultural minister, you were Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Forests and, therefore, every time there are fires in this country, remember the law that you have made to liberalize the eucalyptus, which has created the conditions for greater forest disorder. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Yes, that's your resume, Your Honor! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] That's your resume, Mrs. Member, and you'll have to live with him! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u154	Mrs Assunción Cristas is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u155	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I understand you're out of your mind,... [[PS protests.]] ... but I asked you a very specific question about health: will you or will you not put ideology in front of the quality of services to the citizens? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u156	You have the floor to answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u157	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, it is thanks to the ideology that we have a National Public Health Service and tend to be free of charge... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and we do not have a lack of public health, as in other countries where there is no national health service. It was even because of the ideology that your party — you did not — voted against the creation of the National Health Service and it is because of the ideology that we will continue to recover the National Health Service from the painful state in which you are VV. Ex. They left him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u158	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u159	Mr President, Prime Minister, I can deduce from your words that will end up with four public private management hospitals presenting the best results for the citizen at the lowest cost. Yes or no? Answer me clearly. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u160	You have the floor, Prime Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u161	Mr President, Madam Member, as you know, we have defined the rule of evaluation: what is good we will continue and what is bad we will not continue. Condition : that whoever performs this function wants to continue to exercise it and do not take advantage of it to renegotiate the contract, because that will not be done. That's why we renewed in Cascais and that's why we won't renew in Braga, because whoever has the contract doesn't want to keep it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u162	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u163	Mr President, Prime Minister, we shall be here to make such an assessment. Mr. Prime Minister, moving on to another issue, I have heard here Mr. Carlos César, very happy, talk about what happens from the point of view of returns. Mr Prime Minister, I think it is worth asking you some questions about a sector of workers — self-employed people — who are currently being cut off from their incomes as a result of their government's reform. I'm just going to give you two or three examples. Ana, who received 1200 € and paid 124 € for social security, was notified to pay 180 €. Thinking very strange, he went to Social Security and told him that he could try to ask for an exception that would pay 135 €, i.e. more than 10 € than before. António, which receives per quarter 933 €, i.e. 311 € per month, will necessarily discount 49 €, almost 50 € per month. Mr Prime Minister, these are two examples, but it could bring many others, even on the side of the companies that are currently in the hands of an unfair regime, which withdraws income from the workers, which deprives them of freedom of choice and serves so solely to ensure, in the short term, sustainability that is perhaps not guaranteed in the medium and long term. Mr. Prime Minister, what does it say to these people who are having a cut in their income today? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u164	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will say what you could also say: this Parliament has approved, and well, a new social security regime for those who are working on the green receipt, in order to ensure the social protection that they did not have and that they had; and that, in order to benefit from social protection in our country, and well, each one must contribute according to what he earns. That is how social justice for all is ensured, and that is what the honourable Member could also answer if her ideology was not an ideology contrary to public social protection through the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u166	We moved on to the Green Parliamentary Group. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u167	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, gives me the idea that the whole debate has been trying to run away from the CTT issue in particular. I would therefore like to put the question to Mr. Prime Minister in another way: if he were to finish the concession contract today, and knowing what he knows about the degradation of postal services in our country, the absolute disaster that was the privatization of TTCs, what would he do? Does it or does it not make the possibility of controlling postal and CTT services?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u168	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u169	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, today we must say something very simple: CTTs are obliged by a contract with the State to ensure universal postal service. They have to comply scrupulously with this contract and the entity that controls its compliance is ANACOM, which has the strict obligation to impose on the TTCs, and those of them, their instructions for the scrupulously fulfilling the contract that must take into account the nature of a universal public service, which is not simply to ensure the distribution of letters where this is profitable but where necessary. [[P.L. Luís Moreira Testa.]] That is what it is essential to ensure in the universal public service. Today this is what we must say, and we must not say anything that disresponsibles those who have the responsibility to fulfil a contract, nor give arguments to those who have a contract that ends next year to charge the State with the responsibilities that are unique and exclusively the concessionaire in the execution of the contract. That is what we must say today. As for 2020, I hope we are both here to continue this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u170	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u171	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the Greens are concerned that Mr Prime Minister does not say that he puts the hypothesis of reversing the privatisation of TTCs and of taking public control of postal service. The TTCs are not complying with the concession contract and the government is still reluctant and serene to kick forward and that is not good for the citizens in need of this service. On the other hand, I would like to put another question to Mr. Prime Minister who has to do with the following: we negotiated and approved a very significant reduction in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons). This means that if people get less discounted, they get more by the end of the month. We also negotiated and approved an increase in pensions, which means that pensioners receive more at the end of the month. There are a number of complaints from pensioners to the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, which, despite what I have said, and because of the Government's approval of the withholding table at source, receive less at the end of the month. What miracle is this, Prime Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u172	All right! All right, the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u173	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u174	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, it is not only the Greens who arrive at the complaints, the government and myself have also arrived. The explanation is simple: the table was not updated in time, but in February people will not only have the new tables as will be done the correction for what happened in January.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u175	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u176	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, very well. This is because we are not here adopting measures to improve people's lives for the government to give with one hand and then take the other away, as is clear. We couldn't accept that. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, the issue of climate change, the sustainability of cities is, as you know, a matter to which the Greens have given great importance, particularly in the response that the public transport sector should give. Therefore, we give particular relevance to the issue of the Tariff Reduction Support Programme, known as PART. The guarantee that the Greens want today from the Prime Minister is that this support for tariff reduction applies throughout the country and that citizens are not affected by this tariff reduction in transport because they live outside a metropolitan area. We want that guarantee from the Government. Finally, Mr President, even to conclude on the subject which other parliamentary groups have already referred to, I would like to say that the Greens do not tolerate free violence. She is always condemned, she comes from where she comes from, from citizens against citizens, from citizens against police forces, from police forces against citizens. However, from cases that are being seen, there is something we should not do, which is to generalize. Generalizing is always an unfair way of acting. But, indeed, we should not underestimate these cases, which should be investigated and brought to their final consequences. We also know that to dignify the living conditions of the populations is decisive, and I speak primarily of their right to housing. We are in the middle of the 21st century and there are people who live in miserable conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u177	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u178	Therefore, the relocation of the Jamaican neighborhood, in our perspective, is also a priority, but it is not to form ghettos is to ensure the inclusion of people, which is decisive, as is to dignify the working conditions of the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u179	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u180	And of course it is also crucial to combat all forms of racism. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u181	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u182	Mr President, Member of Parliament, as you know, what has been approved in Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, is that the Programme for Support for Tariff Reduction applies to the whole country in accordance with a formula that has to do with the number of kilometres travelled per inhabitant, which naturally gives a greater concentration where there is the largest public transport network, such as the metropolitan areas, and lower intensity in areas where unfortunately there is still little public transport network. That is why it was established that, in that amount, there was a minimum of 60 % that had to be used in the tariff reduction, but it was allowed that CIM(intermunicipal communities) or metropolitan areas could use 40 % to increase supply and develop the network. This is because the country is very unequal in terms of public transport. We know that in the center of the city the priority should be the reduction of the rate, but there are other areas, even in the metropolitan areas, where perhaps the priority should be the increase in supply. It is this balancing that will allow us to extend the reduction of the tariff to the whole country. I would perhaps, if I were in a CIM where there was a bad public transport network, this year would give priority to the expansion of the supply, which, in fact, would increase the number of users per kilometre and, therefore, would lead to the fact that, next year, the capitalization of transfers would be greater. But, finally, I am not in any CISG and, therefore, I am not in a position to take an opinion on this matter. Now that it covers the whole country, it covers. Last note on Chícharos Valley. The strategy agreed with the City Council of Seixal is particularly intelligent and effective to avoid getatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u183	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u184	I shall now conclude, Mr President. contrary to what was done in the 1980s and 1990s, in the face of the great pressure of the execution of PER (Special Process of Revitalization), the option is not for new construction but, on the contrary, it is to find scattered dwellings in the already consolidated urban land, which does not require new infrastructures and greatly facilitates the insertion of families into populations that are already consolidated, thus avoiding getatization. I apologize, Mr President, for the abuse of time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u185	You're sorry, Prime Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important not to forget that elections are being held in room D. Maria for a member of the Higher Council of National Defence. I'm asking all of you. Members who have not yet voted to do so as soon as they can. I remember that the polls will remain open half an hour after the end of the voting period. You have the floor now, Mr. André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u186	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to tell you about an imminent environmental crime, the Fridão dam, which will be built at 6 km from Amarante and, in the event of a collapse, the tsunami will flood the city centre in 13 minutes. In 2015 the government suspended its construction decision until April this year and committed to making a more accurate assessment of the energy consequences for the failure to implement the dam. The Minister of the Environment refuses to tell us what the Government's decision is, stating that we have to wait until April. All right. But what I wanted to ask you is whether this assessment is done and when the document will be made public.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u187	You have the floor, Prime Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u188	Mr President, Member, the decision is suspended for evaluation until 19 April and until that day we will announce the decision and will disclose all supporting documentation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u189	Mr André Silva is still speaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u190	Mr President, Prime Minister, another subject: the report published this week by the GREVIO Committee, a group of experts from the Council of Europe in domestic and gender-based violence who assessed the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, indicated that in Portugal there is still much to be done to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. These experts say that the Portuguese authorities must correct the legislation on sexual crimes to ensure that these offences are also based on the non-consent of the victim. The NAP brought precisely this proposal to debate in early January and it will begin to be worked in specialties in the next few days. The Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality and the Ministry of Justice also stated that the Government would present proposals for amendments to the Criminal Code in order to better accommodate what are the assumptions of the Istanbul Convention on Crime of Rape, but it has already passed almost four months and so far nothing. Prime Minister, first question: will the government follow the NAP in our proposals to give more rights and protection to victims? Second question: what is the Government doing in particular to respond to other appeals from the report which still points to weaknesses in the services to support victims of domestic violence, as well as the need to strengthen measures relating to the rights of migrants victims of violence?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u191	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u192	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all, the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination already provided for a review of legislation for the prevention of combating domestic violence, including the crime of rape. We fully share the assumptions of the Istanbul Convention and therefore agree that the legislation is amended in order to emphasize non-consent as an integral element of the crime of rape. We particularly agree with the revision of Article 164. the Criminal Code. in this sense, we will participate in the ongoing debate in this Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u193	We have thus reached the end of this item on the agenda, the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister. There are therefore conditions for the government, if they wish, to be able to abstain. I recall that the election is taking place for a member of the Higher Council of National Defence. Let us then move on to the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 197 presences, to which seven are added, of the Deputies Cristovão Norte, of the PSD, Ana Passos, Catarina Marcelino, Fernando Anastácio and Jorge Gomes, of the PS, and Joana Mortágua and Mariana Mortágua, of the BE, performing 204 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. contrary to what is usual, today we will begin by voting on an opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to take account of the opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, is on the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mr. José Pedro Aguiar Branco ( PSD ), an electoral circle of the Port, being replaced by Mr. Deputy Conceição Bessa Ruão, with effect from 1 February 2019, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u195	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the opinion, I would like to give the floor to Mr José Pedro Aguiar Branco, not before saying that he was careful and generous to inform the President of the Assembly of the Republic and to have an interesting discussion on the reasons for his resignation. Mr. José Pedro Aguiar Branco is a prominent figure on the Portuguese political plane and on the political plane of Porto for many years. It is a person who has always liked to exchange information or impressions, even in sometimes harsh debates, and it is with a certain regret that I see this resignation but, at the same time, I want to wish you the greatest happiness for the future. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. I'll be brief. I had an intervention prepared to do this week in the field of political intervention, but matters of procedure did not allow it, and so if the Bureau would allow me, I would bring to the Bureau the intervention I intended to make, so that it will be recorded at the top of the plenary sessions, for those who are interested in it to know what my words were at this time of farewell as a Member. I just want to leave a note and two greetings. The note is that I have for myself that, in democracy, more important than what unites us is to know what separates us, with respect, frontality and loyalty. I understand that it is only thus possible to build alternatives, and alternatives that provide true freedom of choice to the Portuguese people. Parliament is, par excellence, this space for dealing with projects and presenting our differences, in an exercise of freedom and representation that should never make us forget that being a Member is more than a profession; it is not a profession and much less a job. It is this dimension of the mandate relationship with our constituents that must be the inspiration that is always present and that prevents, in amendment of the Statute that happens, the Members from leading themselves to mere political officials. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u197	A greeting, which I wanted to last, is related to parliamentary groups, and here I use my incarnation as a parliamentary leader in 2009 and 2010. I remember the leaders or leaders of the parliamentary groups of the time and in them I greet the respective political parties: José Manuel Pureza, of the Block of Left, Bernardino Soares, of the Communist Party Portuguese, Francisco Assisi, of the Socialist Party, and Pedro Mota Soares, of the CDS-PP, all reference Members who honored the parliamentary groups to which they belong very much. And here, let me highlight Pedro Mota Soares, with whom I shared, in the last legislative elections, a very expressive victory of the coalition in the district of Porto. I want to leave one last word, and special, for my parliamentary group. It was a great honour to have presided over my parliamentary group in 2009 and 2010, but it was still a greater privilege to integrate, in the exercise of my mandate as a Member, for 14 years, this group which, in addition to the indisputable ideological identity, always knew how to be faithful to the voters who represented, in particular in the last legislature, with great difficulties and on behalf of the national interest, and also was always loyal to the different leaders of the party — all! — helping to ensure that the PSD deserves several times the confidence of thousands and thousands of Portuguese people. [[Greetings from PSD and CDS-PP, standing, and from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u198	Mrs. Members, let us then vote on this opinion from the Ethics Sub-Committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u199	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u200	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u201	Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group yesterday tabled a regret vote on the situation in Venezuela and it is very surprising that we do not see it in today's vote script. Certainly it is not necessary to remind the President of the Assembly of the Republic that the contents of the votes are the sole responsibility of the Members who subscribe to them and any kind of intromission by the President of the Assembly of the Republic would certainly be censorable. But that is certainly not the will of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. We therefore demand that this vote be voted on today, which has been done within the regulatory procedures of the Assembly of the Republic, and we have not changed any commas of the text that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u202	Madam Member, of course, all votes are the sole responsibility of the parliamentary groups, but it happens that this is not what is at stake. What is at stake is that, under the cover of a regret vote, there are political considerations of importance in Portuguese foreign policy and the deadline for delivering this vote was until yesterday and not yesterday. [[PSD protests.]] There will therefore be another vote, tabled by another parliamentary group, which will be voted on today, because it has taken place in accordance with all the conclusions we have drawn at the end of many meetings of the Conference of Leaders, in which, moreover, the leadership of the PSD Parliamentary Group has participated actively and has been very positively linked to the final conclusions of this process. If we open the exception of, under the cloak of regret we have votes of condemnation, of support, on the most varied international issues, we are completely undermining the outcome of the Conference of Leaders. We will therefore proceed as the Conference of Leaders has determined. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u203	Mr President, I would like to speak for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u204	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u205	Mr President, I believe that we have arrived at the time when the error, for which the CDS has well warned, of the new rules adopted, which we will respect and which Mr President is implementing, even though with a restrictive interpretation, is in my view. I believe that Mr President is based on a sentence which says: 'I vote for regret and I restate democratic normality by holding free elections in Venezuela.' I believe that this is the basis for Mr President's view that it is not just a vote of regret but also a vote of condemnation and such political consideration that Mr President has spoken about right now. Mr President, I think these are the rules where formalism, in its splendor, and the bureaucracy in which the House of Democracy has been transformed prevents a substantively fundamental issue from being discussed for many Portuguese citizens. And I wanted to vehemently reiterate the CDS' disagreement with these rules. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u206	Mr President, the rules have been adopted with the CDS disagreement and the full support of the PSD, and what is at stake here is a request that the PSD makes and that, according to the rules, is not right. It should be noted that the vote is called 'Sorry and condemnation', it is not a vote of regret. It's not worth it, even if we waste more time on this. We shall continue with the votes. We shall therefore proceed, with the vote on vote No 710 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS members ) — From praise to dancer Carolina Costa for the victories achieved in the Ballet Beyond Borders contest. I ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Portuguese dancer Carolina Costa won three gold medals to dance at the Ballet Beyond Borders, a dance contest that took place in Missoula, Montana, in the United States of America. The young dancer achieved the first place in the three categories in which she participated, in the student's step: contemporary solo, classic solo of « Le Corsaire» and « no de two » by « Flames of Paris», who danced with the Portuguese Francisco Gomes. A student at the International Ballet and Dance Conservatory Annarella Sanchez, Leiria, Carolina Costa is already, at 12 years of age, an example of effort, work and perseverance, ahead of a promising career. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, greets and congratulates Carolina Costa, exalting the results achieved».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u208	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 711 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PSD, PS and CDS-PP ) — Of condemnation and regret for persecution, intolerance and violence against Christians. I ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro again to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Since 2016 the Assembly of the Republic has expressed its deep concern at the increase in persecution and violence against religious and ethnic minorities worldwide and, in particular, in the countries of the Middle East and the African continent. The dramatic evolution of acts of religious violence and its geographical expansion can only trouble us. At the same time as the Rohingya community, which has already deserved, for more than once, the rejection and condemnation by the Assembly of the Republic, Christians are, for the sixth consecutive year, one of the most massacred religious confessions in comparative terms. According to reports from various non-governmental organizations, over 4300 Christians were murdered in 2018 because of their belief in the 3060 murders recorded in 2017. The systematic and replicated warnings in various resolutions adopted by the European Parliament point to the removal of Christian communities in the Middle East since 2010 and the significant disappearance of their religious heritage in their respective countries. The world cannot remain indifferent to the scourge that affects Christian communities. This indifference, translated in the absence of political priority given by various countries in international organizations, weakens one of the important distinguishing traits of Western civilization, religious freedom, enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Freedom to be a Christian, or from another belief, cannot and should not be inconclusive with cultural dominance in other countries, from the Middle East to the African or Asian continents. It is essential to combat this dangerous trend by putting it in the front of the United Nations plan. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic : 1 — Expresses its sorrow for all victims who have lost their lives because of their belief, for violent extremist attacks, expressing their solidarity with these communities in various countries; 2 — Condemns the worsening of acts of religious violence committed against the Christian communities and thus all forms of violence, persecution, discrimination and intolerance based on religious convictions. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u210	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to vote No 712 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD ) — From praise to pilot Elisabete Jacinto, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u211	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Eco Race Africa is a proof of international motor vehicle created by the desire to maintain the spirit of the Rali Dakar, after the cancellation of the 2008 edition and the change of proof to South America. This rally, in addition to a high level of difficulty and competitiveness, traveled more than 6000 km in 12 steps, innovated by giving particular attention to security and sustainable development issues. at the end of 10 participations in this competition and 6 podiums, the driver Elisabete Jacinto has unpublished, the first place in the category of trucks, having also achieved its best result of always in the joint classification with the cars, when winning the fifth place of general. With this fact, pilot Elisabete Jacinto reached a historic day for international motorized sport by getting a woman for the first time to win a long marathon from all over the land at the wheel of a truck, in a mixed competition. This objective, although difficult to reach, was already anticipated as possible taking into account the career of the pilot Elisabete Jacinto who, in addition to the six podiums mentioned above, had already obtained significant results in his sports career with triumphs in important international races such as the Rali de Morocco, the Rali da Tunisia or, at the wheel of a motorcycle, the Cup of Ladies in the Dakar-Cairo Rali, twice. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, approved a vote of praise to the pilot Elisabete Jacinto. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 713 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and PSD ) — Condemnation by recent episodes of violence and solidarity with security forces, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u213	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « in recent days, Portugal has witnessed a series of episodes of unacceptable violence against agents of authority, citizens, a PSP team, several cars and public and private property. The CDS condemns all kinds of violence. The one exercised against agents of authority who, on behalf of the State, act for the protection of all Portuguese and their property is absolutely unacceptable. The circumstance requires the weight and responsibility of all actors and, from the political power, the condemnation of all incidents; the guarantee of the exercise of all the mechanisms provided for in the law for the protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all; and, at the same time, the solidarity of all women and men of the security forces. The existence of an internal investigation should not lead us to the omission in the public space of ensuring the safety of Portuguese and reaffirming confidence in security forces and services. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its condemnation of recent episodes of violence and lends its solidarity to security forces and services. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u214	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u215	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u216	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u217	Mr President, it is to indicate that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote to see the investigation under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u219	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u220	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u221	Mr President, it is to announce that I have made a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u222	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I have an indication that Mr. João Oliveira also wants to use the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u223	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u224	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u226	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u227	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u228	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now move on to the joint vote of four requests submitted by the PS, BE, PCP, PSC and CDS-PP respectively, asking the Health Commission to be discharged without voting for a period of 60 days from the Proposal for a Law No 171 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Health Bases and Drafts Act No. 914 / XIII / 3. a (BE) — New Health Bases Act, 1029 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Basic Health Policy Act, 1065 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Health Bases Act and 1066 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Health Bases Act. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] All these legislative initiatives are down to 9. the Commission. We now generally vote for Law No 172 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 3. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 1868 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Abolition of toll rates in A1, Vila Franca de Xira and Alverca. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u229	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u230	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u231	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u232	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u233	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u234	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u235	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will also make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u236	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on draft resolution No 1807 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government entrust the Ombudsman with the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 1059 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), incorporating an area of study that affects the Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1064 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Establishs an observatory in the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor compliance with the obligations imposed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We also vote, in general, the Bill No. 1020 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates the Portuguese theater and cinema network. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote in general on draft resolution No 1846 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government re-equalize the construction project of the Alvito dam in a multi-use logic of water. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes against The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of BE.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1124 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government entrust a feasibility study of the Alvito dam as a use of multiple purposes, including the hypothesis of its construction in its maximum quota. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, The Greens and the PAN and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u237	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u238	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u239	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present an oral vote on the votes of the last two draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u240	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The oral vote shall be taken at the end of the proceedings. We now vote for Bill No. 575 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the name « Union de Freguesias de São Miguel do Souto e Mosteirô », in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira, to « Union de Freguesias de São Miguel de Souto e Mosteirô. I confess my difficulty in understanding the content of this bill. [[Pause.]] The change is from the preposition 'of' to 'of'. All right. Mrs. Members, if you agree, we will vote for the bill in general, in speciality and in global final vote. [[Pause.]] Since there is no opposition, we will vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As you have just announced, Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor for a statement of vote on draft resolutions Nos 1846 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 1124 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ). You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On voting on draft resolutions Nos 1846 / XIII / 4. a, of the CDS, and 1124 / XIII / 3. the PSD, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents this declaration of vote to make clear and affirm its position. The PS has always looked, and continues to look, in the present, at the country with eyes placed in the future, guiding its decisions with concerns of a strategy of sustainability and territorial cohesion. unlike the right, we do not use the old tactic to present initiatives in this House to hide and whiten the past, which is ashamed. It is recurrent to have a speech in opposition and a counter-practice when in power. It was the former PSD/CDS government that adjourned, revoked and even cancelled the construction of the Alvito dam — that responsibility cannot escape.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u243	in this decision regarding the barrier of Alvito and these initiatives presented, the situation is even more serious, because equating the barrier of Alvito only for several purposes, removing the hydroelectric potential, is to relieve the EDP of the responsibility to which it was obliged, its construction, passing this obligation to the state. We cannot change, at the flavour of the circumstances, the concept enshrined in multiple purposes. This adds energy production, water supply, water and other economic activities. The barrier of Alvito met this principle of multiple ends. The construction of the barrier of Alvito was part of a lot — Alvito and Fridão — included in the National Plan of Potential Hidroelectric High Barrages. Subdividing the lot is no more than satisfying the interests of EDP. The dams, which many today want to diabolize, are fundamental equipment and infrastructures for the future of the country. And they are fundamental for three orders of reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u244	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u245	I conclude now, Mr President. As I said, dams are fundamental for three reasons. First of all, the fundamental reason for hydro and photovoltaic production in combating climate change. Secondly, the constitution of strategic water reserves. Third, dams still serve to regulate the water environment. The PS remains committed to the construction of the barrier of Alvito, taking up the assumptions of the competition launched and of the allocation to EDP of its implementation, i.e. the lot Alvito / Fridão, because we did not, however, impermissible the initiatives of the CDS and the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u246	On the vote on the same motions for resolutions, he also asked for the floor to make an oral statement — although not at the right time, but at any rate accepted — Mr Manuel Frexes of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u247	Mr President, I find this PS vote statement on the Alvito dam somewhat regrettable,... [[PS protests.]] ... because the barrier of Alvito is a project, with national and regional importance, which allows to help develop the country. I think it is unbelievable that the PS will come here now to try to excuse its inoperability, because it was the PS government that, three years ago, cancelled the construction of the Alvito dam. It was the Socialist Party! [[PSD applause.]] This is a long-range project. It is a project that must have multiple purposes, because it cannot serve only for the production of electricity. In fact, it is not the production of electrical energy the fundamental reason for the construction of this dam. This dam is also to combat the depopulation and impoverishment of the interior regions and to help in agricultural terms to irrigate and thus enrich the country and make it more balanced. This is the basic principle that must obey the construction of this dam, which is fundamental to the interior. And the PS should be ashamed not to associate with our resolution projects and should, yes, always fight for the development of the interior and for the development of our land. That's, yeah, it's important. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-25.u248	Mrs. Members, before closing the session, I would like to recall that a member is still being elected to the National Defence Council. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 30 January, at 3 p.m. in point one, there are political statements. in point two, Petition No 250 / XIII / 2 will be appreciated. a ( Portuguese Federation for Life ) — Life has dignity, together with Resolution Projects Nos. 1802 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will, in the main media and in all public services with places of service, including authorities, and 1941 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen palliative care. in point three, Petition No 419 / XIII / 3 will be appreciated. a ( Ana Rita Ramalho et al.) — Human resources planning in the medical sector in Portugal, together with Resolution Projects n. 1607 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government quickly conclude the negotiation process of the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technician and 1942 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Human resources planning in the health sector. We are thus at the end of our work. Thank you very much for your cooperation and a good weekend for all. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 28 minutes.]]
