ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Our plenary session will be filled with a PSD marking, the general debate of Bill No 1156 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the legal regime for the public transport activity of renting on light passenger cars ( taxi ). in point two, it is scheduled, without time allocated for debate, the draft resolution No 2032 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — First amendment to the Rules of Procedure for the Management of Performance in the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 49 / 2015 of 8 May 2015. Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, the Proposal for a Law No 190 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — It creates and regulates the functioning of the National Financial Supervision System, which falls to 5. the Commission. The Drafts of Law Nos 1176 / XIII / 4 were also entered into the Bureau. a ( PS ) — Clarifies the provisions of Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July in respect of restrictions on institutional advertising carried out by public entities in an electoral period, which falls to 1. the Commission, 1177 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Alter the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime, which falls to 8. the Commission, 1178 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crime of the crime of persecution, verified certain aggravating circumstances, as well as the possibility of the application of preventive measures ( 47 ). the amendment to the Penal Code and 31. the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 1179 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Effectives the right to the remuneration of public higher education teachers, which falls to 8. I also refer to Resolution Projects Nos 2054 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the procedure for assessing the application of RJIES and 2055 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create incentives to attract Luso-descendant and emigrant candidates to Portuguese higher education institutions, which fall to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Let us, then, start the agenda. To open the debate, in general, of Bill No. 1156 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — establishes the legal regime for the public transport activity of renting on light passenger cars ( taxi ), Mr Paulo Rios, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day! The decree regulating access to the activity and the transport market by taxi dates from 1998. Without prejudice to more or less surgical changes to diplomas, the fact is that we have been living under this model for more than 20 years. in these 20 years, the whole world has changed. Only the sector and the activity of taxi transport has not changed. But in 2014 the world of passenger transport in light cars suffered a small revolution with the entry into Portugal of companies, first Uber, to which several others joined, with competing activity from online platforms. The model introduced by the platforms was disruptive, insofar as it opposed the fixed model in which the taxis operated and operated and changed the time, mode, collection and service prices. All entities took a long time to internalize the impact of this activity, with the exception of consumers, who quickly adhered to this new model, attracted by the advantages and innovations made available. The government has always driven the tow of events, more precisely not to do what was expected of it: to govern by deciding; to govern by regulating; to govern by preventing; or to govern by legalizing. As evidence of this little government in May 2016, the government created a working group to modernise the taxi sector, which, allegedly, should produce results in 60 days. This was three years ago. In July 2016, the Government, through the Mobility and Transport Institute, promoted the creation of a regulation to legalize Uber and other platforms, which was to be ready after summer 2016. This was three years ago. Finally, the Government has introduced a proposal in Parliament to which the PSD, responsiblely, countered an alternative proposal, denouncing the vices and inadequacies of the government. With the subject in the first pages of the newspapers, the platforms to operate legally and the taxi sector on the coals, the Socialist Party had three distinct moments of intervention: first, while he could, goodbye; then, when he could not, he tried to negotiate on the left; finally, surrendered, not to say defeated, he was forced to come to meet the PSD proposals and find a basis of majority understanding in Parliament. As we all recall, this first diploma suffered a veto from the President of the Republic. Do You Remember? Oh, my God! This veto was based on two arguments: (a) the value of the fees to be paid by companies to the sector; and (b) the lack of updating the legal framework of taxi activity vis-à-vis the set of rights and duties regulated by this law. Mr President of the Republic had already acknowledged, and well, that taxis had quotas and fixed prices would benefit platforms and a balanced solution was needed. The veto was very well received, but such a balanced solution was put in the drawer. We are in 2019, near the end of the term of office of a government that came in 2015, and as it was said, the government and the parties that support it maintain a deafening silence on the subject. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the Government fails, when the Socialist Party fails, when management fails, the Portuguese have the right to expect that the PSD, as a party with greater representation in this Chamber and only party capable of playing an alternative to the current governance, assumes the responsibility of presenting the debate a proposal for regulation of the taxi sector. Here we are, presenting the debate and voting a proposal: ours! We have been inspired by the veto of Mr President of the Republic, to which everyone has beaten palms, but then they have put their hands in their pockets and we have seen them do what has not yet been done. Based on this history of absolute legislative void and regulation in the taxi sector, our proposal is inspired by the current reading we make of the issue, by drinking what we read, heard and studied in Portugal, other geography and other legal systems. Moreover, among other things, we reflect the concerns and suggestions of the Competition Authority, which as an independent entity has been demanding several relevant changes since 2016, the study by the Mobility and Transport Authority of 2017 on the taxi sector, the OECD study ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and everything we heard from consumers and the sector. Our proposal constitutes a change of the old model, aims to dynamize the sector and contribute to a better service and innovation, without removing the nature of public service from the taxi. We therefore propose the end of the municipal quotas, which are completely deranged from reality and which prevent new agents from entering the market. If there are enough taxis, why are thousands of new agents operating under platforms in fierce competition? We want the end of the geographical barrier, leading this public service to the whole territory. We want price adequacy, with the fixing of maximum prices for consumer protection and transparency of activity. We allow access to online platforms, either by taxi drivers or by all other service providers. We harmonize certification and licensing requirements, security, quality of service, avoiding gross injustice and the difference in existing regimes. We put an end to the uniformization of image characteristics. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want black and green, let it be black and green all your life. They can continue black and green or adopt another color which limits the differentiation between service providers and does not favor innovation or the quality of service delivery. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, taxi drivers, users, consumers, taxi activity is something we want to preserve and promote. We believe in taxi as an alternative response to other models and we are available to maintain rights and guarantees that no car operator else has. We want as many taxis and as many taxi drivers as they want to join this activity of public interest, without artificial blockades, competing with the advantages that taxis have, with the other operators. We want to reward quality of service and innovation. We want more satisfied consumers and competitive prices. PSD does not own the truth nor does it bear all the solutions. We have no pride in understanding that this document cannot be enriched by the contributions that other parties bring to us. Come to the debate! This is the day, the opportunity and the place to assume responsibility. Of one thing we are sure: we are building alternatives and, if it were not the PSD, this Parliament would continue with its hands in the pockets and blow up until October. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u5	Four Members signed up to request clarification from Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, who informed the Bureau that they wanted to answer one by one. Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, this PSD project, I have to tell you, is a project of that typical passenger who, disoriented, will try to catch a train at a bus station. It is a project completely next to the need of the sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, if there is, throughout the legislature, a matter which has been widely debated, that was the subject of taxi and passenger transport in light passenger cars. thus, we miss the urgency and the need of the PSD to debate this dimension. The first question I ask you is this: does the PSD think it is possible to make such a project against the sector, without listening to the agents of the sector? Do you think it is possible to make this proposal? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Paulo Rios said here that today was the day. Today is really the day to separate the waters and it is the day, too, to fall the mask of those who want to destroy the sector completely. And whoever wants to totally destroy the sector is the Social Democratic Party. Mr President, the Socialist Party has always supported its work in defending the modernization of the taxi sector and here we are to defend decarbonization, to defend the improvement of the quality of service and to defend the environmental issues underlying the sector. I speak of modernization in order to improve the quality of the service and not to completely destroy the sector, deregulation the same. Mr President, is it not to put fixed prices in question not to question the public service? Is the public service not at stake? Those people who daily, or for some reason, have to use the taxi cannot be subject to speculation. Are you sure? It's just that, Mr. Deputies, the taxi goes far beyond the big cities. Taxi is a national reality and, by preventing this speculation, it seems to just look at the big cities. Let's imagine that 40 or 50 taxi drivers appear quickly in a small town. All implode with one another and then there is no one to do this essential public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u8	That's what's at stake. It is the defense of wild competition that will then destroy the sector throughout the country. Mr. President, is modernizing the sector to destroy the same? Modernizing the sector is not safeguarding the public interest? Mr Paulo Rios, my final question is this: you are aware that, when presenting this radical proposal, of fierce liberalism, the Democratic Social Party would be contributing, if this project were to be approved — certainly, it will not be! — to be the roof of the traditional taxi sector? Is that what the PSD wants? To be the traditional cab sector blanket? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u9	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Paulo Rios.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u10	Mr President, Mr Hugo Costa, you are much better than your speech. The PSD is embroiled in a great sense of responsibility and understands that the greatest party in the opposition has a duty not to let this issue go clear and therefore brought it into the debate and it is even more curious than the party in the government, who should be reacting and solving, who even makes draft resolutions asking his own government to intervene, has the soul to come here to say what we have done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u12	Mr President, I have tabled my proposal and, therefore, I propose that you present yours, compare. If you say mine is bad, I want to know if it's bad compared to which, because I don't see any here. And attention that our responsibility is completely different! I'm part of the alternative party and I'm working and Mr. Deputy is from the government party and he's stopped! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u13	Before we continue the work, I would like to inform you that a delegation from the Parliamentary Group of Friends of Ukraine-Portugal, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, headed by its President, Dziublyk Pavlo Volodymyrovych, at the invitation of the Parliamentary Group of Friendship of Portugal-Ukraine. I would ask you to salute this delegation. [[standing applause from PSD, PS, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let's continue the work. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, the first issue we want to highlight in this debate has to do with an unmistakable reality that you know of absolute certainty: it is the importance of the indispensable character that the taxi sector as a public service of proximity assumes for the concrete life of people. in the mobility of populations, in metropolitan areas, but also in the villages of the interior, in tourism activity and even, for example, in access to health care, taxi is a fundamental transport service for our country. Surely you agree with this. I therefore ask the honourable Member: if you agree with the importance of the taxi sector, why do you want to drag it down and decimate it in this way?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u15	That's a good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u16	You have actively participated and are material co-authors of the law that have approved in partnership with the PS Government to legalize unfair competition, in a fact to the extent of multinationals, and now present a bill that has consecrated total deregulation and has created the law of the jungle in the taxi sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u18	Do you propose that we simply end the quota and organization of the activity by completely ignoring the concrete reality of our country and even other countries where this revenue has been applied? See the case of Ireland, where total liberalisation resulted in an increase in supply of 440 % in eight years. Unbridled disorganisation and deregulation were such that the Irish authorities withdrew, reverted the measures and imposed quotas and maximum prices. But you insist on this policy of burned land. Do you want to convince people that it is with the destruction of the sector, with the failure of thousands and thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperatives, before the economic power of the multinationals, that the country will become better? The PSD comes to the point of defending the end of the standard color of the taxis, i.e. to end with the identity mark, which is the rule of the Portuguese taxis. Not even the rule of green and black escapes your law from everyone knows about you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u19	Exactly
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u20	Modernizing is one thing, destroying is another, sir! The PSD and CDS, for years and years, in successive governments, were authentic cab sector floats.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u21	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u22	When they could take steps to really modernise the sector of taxi and transport and mobility in general, what made them completely ignore the needs and potentialities of this sector. They penalized small industrial workers with special payment on account ( PEC ). We have been fighting for years and years and proposing in this House the elimination of the CFP and we have achieved it, despite your vote against it. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u23	They left the doors shocked at the entry of multinationals, who acted outside the law for years with total impunity, while your government was blowing up the air! And even after they left the government, they continue this crusade and not only gave the PS their hands to legalize unfair competition, as they still bring this proposal that is too bad to be true! Mr. Deputy, a little while ago, said that the taxi sector was on fire. So, the contribution the PSD has to present is to launch gasoline for the total fire? Oh, my God! Explain that your concept of modernity and responsibility and do not say that we want everything to remain the same, because you voted against our proposal which presented several concrete measures for the modernization of the taxi sector. That is why you know very well that the CFP continues to defend and present measures of modernization and not of destruction, as you have brought here. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u24	To reply, Mr Paulo Rios has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u25	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I know that you weren't talking exactly to me, you were talking to the taxi drivers. Let me also speak to them and ask them: at the end of four years of this government, what do they take? Zero! The people say that it is better a hand in power than power in hand. And in this case, who has the power in his hand is the PS, but who has the hand in power are the lords! For these four years, your hand, the hand that packs up the socialist cradle, what did you give the taxi drivers? What did the government require? What do they take positively in 2019 from the PCP intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u26	It's just empty rhetoric!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u27	I would also like to say, Mr President, that the identity mark thing is very relative. It's a matter of knowing the story of what happened. The identity mark came from 1963 and, by chance, in 1993 — the cars of the Portuguese taxi drivers came from Germany — it was decided that it was better not to paint these cars, the law that was amended in 1999. So the identity mark doesn't have that whole story. And I tell you more: any taxi driver can have a black, green, yellow car, can have the color you want, you have to have the differentiation of your service. As for that, we are not against it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u28	Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Rios, the PSD, in fact today, is surprised when it presents a bill proposing the creation of a legal regime for the taxi sector, giving this Assembly of the Republic only a few days of reflection. In fact, not so much has this proposal been discussed in committee before. The gentlemen. Members are in a hurry to pass this legislation. Mr. Paulo Rios, I must tell you that it gives you an idea that this proposal has an original sin. Original sin is very simple: the PSD, with this bill, intends to regulate the public service—I will repeat, intends to regulate the public service—of passenger transport by taxi, but ignores the municipal authorities of public transport, which is something that is in Law No 52 / 2015, approved by the gentlemen and by the CDS, here in the Assembly of the Republic, in 2015. The Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service, Law No. 52 / 2015, establishes that the municipal authorities of public transport have the power to intervene in all public transport of their jurisdiction and Mr. PSD members present a bill that does not have a single word about municipal transport authorities that regulate taxi activity in each of the municipalities. Mr. Paulo Rios, each municipality has its transport authority, as referred to in the Legal Regime that your Government has approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. What is the competence of the municipality in your bill? It's not even worth checking! Municipal police are not used to monitor taxi activity according to your proposal. It is simply ignored. I am no longer talking about the fact that the business licenses have ceased to be issued by the municipalities—as if it was possible to comply with one of the articles of the Legal Regime which establishes that the public transport services planning regime includes taxi activity! Explain to me, honourable Member, how it is possible to plan a public passenger transport service in a particular municipality without knowing how many taxis there are in that municipality. Your bill is even more serious than this. Not only does he ignore municipalities as he has an article that is absolutely delicious: on the limit, each taxi license owner can sign up to develop the activity in each of the 308 municipalities in the country. There's nothing to stop him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u30	And? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u31	How do you control the taxi records that exist in a particular location in each municipality? How do you control it? Do you have a GPS? Is it by GPS that Mr. Deputy controls? This bill does not have the possibility to be applied at all, because it is wrong. It does not take into account other legal regulations relating to the activity of the public passenger transport sector, on behalf of a full liberalisation of the sector. Mr. Paulo Rios, public transport is one of the sectors of economic activity that cannot be fully liberalized. You know why? Because there are certain conditions of access and public service obligations that can only be met if they are contracted with each operator. That is, only if each operator fulfils public transport obligations is that it has access to that regulated public transport market. [[PSD protests.]] And the gentlemen. Members have committed another capital sin. What is the capital sin? It is the one who announces in the explanatory statement of your bill, in which it is referred to that "review the legal regime of the taxi, creating rules that create a harmonised and balanced general system in conjunction with the rules applicable to the transport of passengers on TVDE". No, sir! The rules applied to the transport of passengers on TVDE do not have the same legal regime as the public transport of passengers in taxi service. And that's why, including, the ladies. Members recognise that a maximum price scheme has to be created. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u32	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u33	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The gentlemen. Members, when they recognise that a maximum price scheme needs to be created, they are implicitly admitting that the sector cannot be liberalised, which cannot be the free price it counts, which must at least be the maximum price. And this circumstance, Mr President, makes this project not go through today's votes—and I am glad it won't happen! — but, if it were to happen, I could continue to say a lot of things that work the opposite way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u35	Mr Paulo Rios, the idea of considering that the market is regulated by itself, that it does not have to be a regulated market and that there must be no quotas for the exercise and regulation of this activity does not work in this case. Mr President, I would like to ask you one last question. PSD speaks in modernity, but in the bill there is not a single word about energy transition. How does this bill establishing the taxi system respond to electrical mobility obligations, particularly energy transition, which apply to this sector?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u36	Did the honourable Member, by any chance, hear the Bureau's appeal?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u37	I shall finish immediately, Mr President. Mr. Paulo Rios, there are many unanswered questions, but at least these questions should have your answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u38	Mrs. Members, the understanding established in the Conference of Leaders is that, when there is a global allocation of time, as is the case with today's debate, the regiment figures can admit the passage to twice the time available. in this case, a question that in the Rules of Procedure is equal to 2 minutes may pass to 4 minutes, in view of the flexibility of managing the time of each bench. however, Mr. Heitor de Sousa did not use the floor for 4 minutes, but, yes, for more than 6 minutes. Therefore, I ask you to understand me. Members to comply with the rules to which we voluntarily bind ourselves. Mr. Paulo Rios, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u39	Mr President, Mr Heitor de Sousa, I thank you for your speech, but I am not surprised at your surprise myself. First of all, the only original sin that this project has, in good rigor, is to be of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u40	And it's not too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u41	This is the original sin for the Left Block! for the first time, I had the opportunity to hear someone talk about the project itself, but I'm sorry I don't have yours for power, too, to counter. Your surprise, Mr. Member, when we have been talking about this for four years, when we have received a veto from Mr. President of the Republic... Please read the veto from Mr. President of the Republic! There is already a call for attention to the imbalances that arise and there is already concern about the taxi sector's reaction to the arrival of operators. All this is artificial and so artificial that the operators are coming and are thousands. We're worried! Six months ago, the PSD announced that it would present, if the government did not do so, a proposal to this House. We did it! Aren't they used to it? They have to get used to it! We said we were going to do it and we did it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u43	This is the answer we have to give when, at the moment, the taxi sector is highly threatened. [[PSD applause.]] It is highly threatened because we have seen a set of rules that others do not have. We want to modernize, because the world is changing and changing quickly. It is not possible, for any longer, to continue to maintain the monopoly system completely protected. Mr. Deputies, tourism in Porto has doubled, but taxis are the same; in Lisbon, in 10 years, 50 taxis have entered. Does this make sense? This is only possible when there is a closed regime. So much so that transport is needed, which continues to reach platforms in Portugal. It's not worth covering the sun with the sieve. Sir, let go of the door, because they're coming in through the window! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u44	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulo Rios, I confess that this is one of the initiatives I have most often read, such was the incredible thing I have found in each of the proposals. The first question is: where is the PSD? Where is that party, co-author of the law of electronic platforms, together with the Government's proposal, who at the time said: "We are for fair competition and regulated by legislation that allows the proper functioning of platforms, with quality of service, but which does not destroy the role and sector of the taxi"? I would really like to know what this PSD has done. There is one question that has been asked to you and you have not answered, but I would like you to answer it. This proposal from the PSD — legitimate, is true — was made in collaboration with whom? Did you talk to the sector? When, where and under what circumstances? It says: 'Read the veto of Mr. President of the Republic'. We read and agree. That is why the CDS, even before the veto, presented a draft resolution for the modernization of the taxi sector. We were the only ones! [[CDS-PP applause.]] We are also responding to the challenge of Mr President of the Republic, finding a solution for the sector as quickly as possible. It says the PSD : « We, as a great party... » — that is true, the PSD said - six months ago — «... if the government does nothing, the PSD does ». Then they said « And we did, because we are the greatest party». You just confirmed that greatness and quality are going to be a huge difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u46	Ohh!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u47	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u48	So I could have made a good initiative, a good proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u49	And they're friends!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u50	The PSD did a raza tabula, dragged all the proposals that were discussed with the sector, all the solutions that came from the working group. He put it all in the trash! And why? It says: « Well, we have to liberalize everything, in the whole country». So that question, that PSD was talking about, that it was important to protect the taxi sector, because in Lisbon and Porto there were electronic platforms, but in the rest of the country there were only taxis? So they didn't even do the housework, in order to find, perhaps, a liberalisation? Yes, I also agree that it is necessary to end the quota, but why is it not done in the transports of the metropolitan areas, as the whole rational urban mobility organization is based? It is the Metropolitan Area of Porto, Lisbon, Coimbra, are the CIM(intermunicipal communities)... How does this sector not move forward and progress towards full liberalisation? I also wanted to know why the PSD was almost breaking the agreement with the Socialist Party at the time of the law of TVDE (carriage in uncharacterized vehicle from an electronic platform), because of a rate of 5 %, which ended up with a lower value, also by suggestion of the President of the Republic. What was that fee for? To help the traditional taxi sector, for mobility. Why did the PSD, when it made the proposal of electronic platforms, allow only taxis to use the bus corridor, that only taxis could take place in the square, that only taxis could be caught on the street, Hailing, lifting the arm, that only taxis could make cash transactions? If it was not to do anything like that, it might have had more quality and usefulness, at the time, to make this proposal and liberalize immediately. We would have avoided demonstrations, saved time and perhaps had a more serious discussion on what should be a liberalisation. We have no problem with that and therefore we have always said that we are facing two different business models. We are in favour of the freedom of initiative, of new business models and of innovation, but we are not in favour of the destruction of a traditional sector that employs thousands of people, which is even important for mobility in cities and which provides a public service. The quality, reliability and safety of those providing the service must be guaranteed in the eyes of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u51	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u52	This is only possible if we give economic viability conditions to the sector, obviously with clear rules, obviously with competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u53	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u54	As Mr President of the Republic said, with equal rules for all or at least a healthy climate of competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u55	That's talk to spend time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u56	What the PSD presents here is the total overthrow of the PSD's own initiative, of the PSD's own claims and interventions. For me, it is indeed strange, because I am not used to seeing this doubt and uncertainty in your proposals in the PSD. Therefore, the answers that will help-CL-I will be very much to conform our vote later at the end of the day. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u57	To reply, Mr Paulo Rios has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u58	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, I am grateful for the questions you have raised. Mr. Deputies, it began with a confession and knows that confession with repentance is of great value to us. from this point of view, it started well. Mr. Deputy, this is very dynamic, it has been coming since 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u59	Very dynamic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u60	First of all, it was the arrival of platforms that, over time and time, operated illegally and could only solve the problem with the active participation of the PSD. Mr President of the Republic touched on the right point and only from the moment the platforms entered Portugal is that the taxi sector has become protected in certain aspects, but this protection is a deadly trap. The protection given to taxis is a deadly trap! PSD is worried and long ago. Therefore, we have come to hear, study and with what we see, at the end of two years, through the reports of international entities, the report of the Competition Authority and the veto of the President of the Republic, we have come to present a proposal. But all of a sudden, the PSD proposal for a sector that was about to burn, but for which no one in this room is available to do something, is a bad proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u61	You're so distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u62	Mr. Deputies, you welcome our challenge with all humility. We are not owners of the truth, we are doing what, responsibly, we better know, concerned that we are with the taxi sector. Come discuss with us, let's download the initiative, let's discuss in detail, with metropolitan area, without metropolitan area, how much are taxis protected and how much your activity is protected. I tell you more: we continue to defend that there continues to be a set of features that are only attributed to taxis and that are advantageous to them. But when they tell us "We can't compete, because we have a fixed price", we've finished with this, we've set a maximum limit, because we have to protect consumers. When they tell us « We cannot operate where we want, unlike TVDE », we need to create rules that allow them to compete with other operators.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u63	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u64	This situation, in which the taxi sector is maintained as it is, with a completely artificial quota, is killing the taxi sector. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u65	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u66	Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was with enormous surprise and almost unbelievable that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group met with the PSD diploma under discussion today. It is true that the winds on the right do not cease to surprise and even that, for a long time, the Government of the Socialist Party and, in practice, the whole country have buried the unusual creation of Satan of the times of Rabbit Passes, there is always someone, on that side, who dares to stir ideological radicalism or just shake apathy or just, then, the disorientation of a party that only embraces itself to be noticed, even though, with this, it breaks down balances, exacerbates moderate animes and corrupts the serenity necessary to build alternatives for a better country. Mr President, in spite of everything, it is good to stress that we are not concerned about what is happening on that side, but that we do not lower our arms, when, on that side, initiatives of this kind arise, causing almost free of charge, an entire sector that has just adapted to new times and set an example of integration, in a more demanding, modern and competitive context. We do not lower our arms, nor are we indifferent, when, on that side, there appear diplomas of these, originating there God knows where and with which rational, but who offend the effort of an entire sector, of workers who have endeavoured, with all the country to look and not always with approval, to make their role and make their contribution to a change of which Portugal could not wait. We do not lower our arms, nor can we ignore, when, on that side, initiatives of this nature arise, without any prior scrutiny, no debate or involvement with those to whom this bill effectively reaches and addresses itself. We do not lower our arms, nor do we shut ourselves down, when, on that side, an entire sector is being dismantled to replace something else, the only certainty of which is that it will no longer be definitely the taxi sector, while one of the mechanisms indispensable to the new models of circulation in the cities of new times. We do not lower our arms, nor are we indifferent, when, on that side, based on the ferocious deregulation that these proposals close, compromises the country's mobility ecosystem which cannot dispense with a public service that needs to continue to modernise itself and that dispenses to succumb to this offensive. We do not lower our arms, nor do we ignore, when, on that side, such attempts arise, which seem to deliberately ignore the consequences of the uncontrolled stimulus to supply, leading to an imbalance in which the advantages of the sector will fall in such a way until the implosion of taxi activity, not becoming stone upon stone. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This diploma is an exercise contrary to the thinking of the Government and the Socialist Party. It is, in some cases, inappropriate insistence on issues already agreed with taxi associations, and I give two questions as an example: the maximum duration of vehicles and their color. Mrs. Members, it is fully agreed, closed and in force a period of 10 years for the maximum duration of vehicles and the black and green colour. This diploma, in turn, proposes all colors of rainbows and only seven years of duration of vehicles, introducing a blocking requirement of competitiveness to professionals. in other cases, the bill closes a Leonine deregulation that will create disproportionate stimuli at the entry of the activity and a trendy fall of the margins, resulting in an obvious collapse in the activity as we know it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in other cases, the diploma still deregulates the sector so as to make what is different, but the PS Parliamentary Group will do everything so that it does not remain the same. Let it be very clear: we do not want this alleged reform of the taxi law which ends, after all, because it is an unexplainable and unacceptable approach to the TVDE law, where the market, obviously because of its limitations, will not respond competently to the minimum of regulation. An obvious consequence will be the relocation of the availability of this type of transport, harming less attractive parts of the country, such as the interior, i.e. a macadada in the cohesion of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We don't want any of this, and we're doing different. The Government of the Socialist Party, in addition to what I have already mentioned, has also consensualized, in a climate of dialogue, support for the financing of the purchase of electric vehicles, the harmonisation of billing equipment, the improvement of the operationalization of the exemption of IUC (the single traffic tax) granted to taxis, the mandatory location of the taxi meter, the introduction of the digital contract, among others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this legislature, the Socialist Party did not ignore the need of the country to follow the demands of the modern world and the effort to meet the challenges of mobility, always bearing in mind the need for improvements with an impact on the consumer, with balanced results in the sector, being possible to obtain more efficiency and better standard of service provided, protecting the public interest. Portugal as a whole is witness that this path has been made in debate and in fine and honest articulation with the taxi sector. We have not always agreed, but we have built, and we will continue to build, balance and consensus. We are open to discussing and discussing initiatives that promote mobility and ensure the role of taxi as an irreplaceable instrument in an increasingly demanding and unregulated context. We are not available to contribute to definitely delete the taxi sector of the country's mobility panorama. Of course, today, the environment we live in and the requirements we are facing do not compare with those that occurred when establishing the regulatory principles of the taxi sector. This awareness makes us work, with a sense of responsibility, to eliminate procedures that are incompatible with reality, to, without fear, fight for the competitiveness of the sector, for the satisfaction of the consumer and for the contribution to sustainability that satisfies all actors. This is what the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group have done throughout the legislature in a permanent dialogue with associations, through working groups and legal amendments, which have drawn the entrepreneurial spirit of the professionals. It is gratifying that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group notes that many of the demands of associations have already been accepted, as I have already mentioned, either in amendments to the gates or with amendments to the law. But, moreover, we proudly note the adequacy of the sector to the context that emerged in the country, with the approval of the TVDE law (carriage in car decharacterized from electronic platform ). The emergence, for example, of a new technology platform associated with taxis is a sign of progress and modernity that gives us the hope that we need not to abandon taxi drivers, as the PSD bill intends to condemn, but yes, and always, to welcome and stimulate this path that brings out a mix of solutions that no modern country can dispense. But it is also true that there is still a long way to go. We know what the sector thinks and we will not fail to hear and feel what goes into their souls and build new bridges. That is why there are issues under discussion between the government and taxis that are not consensualized, such as the issues of municipal quotas or the establishment of maximum prices. On this point, for example, the Government has already indicated that dialogue is open. in this and other matters, it is now up to the Socialist Party to advance the guidelines for the future in its programme, in a strong commitment to strengthen the competitiveness of the sector and improve the service to the population. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] That is why we will work, and we are sure that we will always have the decisive contribution of all professionals and entrepreneurs in the area and, in particular, their representatives' associations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u67	Mr Carlos Pereira, three Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u68	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u69	You have the floor, therefore, to make requests for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, I begin by saying that it is unfortunate that all this concern that has now been expressed about the taxi sector did not exist when the PS approved the law of platforms with the PSD. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u71	It's true! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, in the Algarve are licensed about 440 taxis, which provide an essential service to the populations, as well as to the tourism sector, which supports it. The so-called Uber law, imposed by the PS government, with the support of the PSD and the CDS, is a strong threat to the survival of the taxi sector in the Algarve region. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] While the taxi applies all rules and requirements in terms of sector regulation, Uber, Cabify and other companies of this nature operate in the Algarve without any type of conditioners. The reaction of the taxi sector in the Algarve — a national base sector, consisting mostly of small businesses and cooperatives — was very clear during the 10 days, in the past months of October and November, in which about 300 taxis were concentrated on the access road to Faro airport. This fight process ended on the basis of the Government's commitment to respond to the aspirations of the taxi sector. However, the Government has done nothing, or rather, Mr Deputies, but has continued to open the door to the full installation of multinationals and to the precariousness of labour relations. The proposal that the PSD brings today, with the proposed liberalisation, would be the final stockpiling in the taxi sector throughout the country and also in the Algarve. No contingents, no regulated fare, no taxi protection measures, we would watch a fight between David and Goliath. The taxi sector in the Algarve has specificities resulting from the strong seasonality, which characterizes the tourist activity of the region. So far, what was seen was that the PS, PSD and CDS closed their eyes, delivering the sector to the hands of multinationals and market laws, without any step had been taken to consider responses to the ratio between quota and seasonality. from the PCP, there is availability to examine solutions that, while maintaining the quotas, adapt them, in conjunction with the sector and the authorities, to the periods of greater demand, as happens in summer. Thus, Mr Carlos Pereira, I wonder whether the PS is available to consider measures that link the quotas with the seasonal, characteristic periods of the Algarve and also other regions of the country where tourism is of great importance in the economic fabric. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u73	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Virgílio Macedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u74	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, in April 2018, the Socialist Party presented in this House a draft resolution recommending that the Government make proposals for the modernization of the taxi sector within a working group that had as priority areas of intervention fleets, tariffs, abandonment rules, licensing markets, driving hours control, etc. What did the government do? Zero! Or, better, almost zero. What did the government do? It has legislated with regard to the placing of the taximeters at the top of the car boardier and has established some rules regarding the suspension and abandonment of the taxi operator activity. We know, Mr President, that the PS is an immobilist party, that it is not a reformist party; that it has nothing as a reformist! But now the PS has resolved to oppose the opposition. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the taxi sector is extremely important. It is a public service sector and therefore deserves to have all legal instruments in order to deal with the competition that exists today. With regard to some proposals submitted by the PSD, such as the quota proposal, does he agree with the existence of artificial oligopolies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u75	That's why we have to get rid of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u76	Do you agree that a municipality, like Sintra, with 380 000 inhabitants, has only 124 taxi licenses? Do you agree that in Lisbon, with the increase in tourism that existed, between 2006 and 2016 there were only 50 more taxi licenses? Mr President, today with TVDE, there is no quota in practice! You still don't get that? As regards prices, these are a completely anachronistic matter in our taxis. No one understands tariff 1, tariff 3, tariff 5. Today, taxis suffer from TVDE competition and cannot defend themselves! I mean, they're totally unprotected! But even more, Mr. Member : do you agree that a taxi driver who picks up a customer in Matosinhos, for example, and that he will take you to Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport, in Maia, must necessarily come empty, when there are 20 or 50 people in line waiting for taxis? Oh, my God! Does this make sense? Does it not make sense to extend the provision of public service by taxi drivers to other councils, beyond just one council? After all, what is the proposal to modernise the taxi sector that the Socialist Party defends? It's just that you haven't made any proposals so far, you've just criticized it! He only made opposition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u77	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, I would like to say that the Socialist Party could very well have avoided today's discussion. It was enough for the Socialist Party, as a party that supports the government, to be able to help the government do its work of fulfilling at least the promises it makes and the promise it made to the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u80	In fact, the Socialist Party also has guilt in the cartory, because in the last manifestation of the sector I well remember hearing its leaders say that the Socialist Party had promised that there would be a participation of the municipalities. I was so far unaware of what participation would be like. I would like, however, to give you a suggestion, to see if you agree with it. For the CDS makes the whole sense that a taxi driver with a taxi service, for example, from Oeiras to Lisbon, since there are a large number of miles in vacuum, which harms the sector, can leave a customer in Lisbon and catch another customer who wants to make the way back. I want to say with this that we can look at this in terms of metropolitan area, in terms of CIM (intermunicipal communities) and, perhaps, in this geographical region, allow some liberalisation. It's another instrument, it's another weapon given to the sector. We do not agree with the PSD proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u81	There goes the PaF!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u82	...in terms of liberalizing for the whole country. But I also wanted to tell you that the Socialist Party and the Government have set up an informal, formal working group... and have even made a promise to the sector when the question of electronic platforms was raised, which had three objectives, 10 measures, 17 million euros. None of this working group has been strictly seen. There are only two doors, one on the color of the vehicle and one on the ability to suspend the license — the point the CDS had already included in its draft resolution, so even more advantageous to the sector, i.e. with the ability to suspend the activity for a period of time to then be able to return to the same activity. Questions such as the introduction of electronic invoices into cars, the increase in the functions of the taxi meter, the vehicle age limit, the reduction of 60 % of vehicle taxes — this in addition to having punished the sector with an increase in the price of fuels per week, in addition to taxes on the whole sector — the deduction of VAT (value added tax) of gasoline in hybrid cars, the purchase of vehicles and the processing of cars that come in favour of mobility and energy efficiency, etc. etc. etc. In other words, the Socialist Party, as we promised and agreed, instead of working, so that the sector could be modernised and eventually see its legislation approaching what was a right liberalisation for us — of the electronic platforms, will end the legislature pending the sector almost the same rules that were in force at the beginning. Therefore, or the Socialist Party guarantees us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u83	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u84	... as was promised here by the voice of Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, who will solve the problem, or the CDS — and myself, so that the Democratic Social Party will not be so angry— will present a proposal and not a draft resolution. The draft resolution was exactly a sign of good faith, since the government had a working group that was discussing with the sector, and the sector always told us that they were making progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u85	Save your PSD face!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u86	Thus, we will do something very simple: listen to the sector again and, together with the sector, present a proposal that will be able to bring the rules of the sector closer to the rules of the electronic platform,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u87	No, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u88	... that it is able to guarantee conditions so that the sector can survive, innovate, be competitive and can provide the consumer with one more offer, and a secure, profitable offer in accordance with normal competition rules and over time. The PS did not do so and, therefore, today, I should apologize to the sector and should also have some condescension, because it is author of this proposal that does not solve any problems, but, on the contrary, it adds immense problems to the sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u89	Supported, but only in relation to the last sentence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u90	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the questions that have been put to me and which will certainly make it possible to enrich this debate. Mr Paulo Sá, on the law of TVDE, what existed were two realities and it was absolutely essential to find a balance between these two realities. What also existed, and Mr Paul Sá knows - was a reality that had no regulatory framework, there was no legal framework for this activity, but it was a reality, everyone saw, was in the eyes of everyone. What the PS did was frame that reality. What we are discussing today is a party that wants to completely destroy another reality, which is the reality of the taxi sector, and that we will not allow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Virgílio Macedo, as far as taxis are concerned, but also on TVDE, we have gone to the legislature to seek balance, consensus and dialogue. The Socialist Party and the Government have made a great and significant effort to achieve this serenity and tranquillity that the country has today. It is true that we realize that the PSD was authentic and that somehow it should make promises for the government to burn on fire, so that the government could somehow « stout» me, allow me to express it. The question that arises today is this: after this effort, after we get this calm, what does the PSD want? The PSD doesn't like a country in quiet and moving forward? Is that what's going on? The PSD, when the elections are approaching, either a country in seizure, a country that is constantly in seizure, why does that work for the elections? Is that what the PSD wants? No one understands: we are in an enormous process of tranquillity with regard to the urban mobility ecosystem, let me say this, and you have decided to shoot an atomic bomb to destroy the taxi sector. The question is this: why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Why do you want to do this to taxi drivers, why do you want to destroy the cab sector? That is what you have to answer and you have not responded to during your speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Hélder Amaral — and now also in response to Mr Virgílio Macedo — I will read a part of the ANTRAL communiqué of 18 March this year — is very recent: « ANTRAL met on 28 February with the Government to promote the continuation of the sector's modernization work, which will continue to be developed». It is good to remember what we said: the Socialist Party continues in permanent, constructive and open dialogue with the taxi sector to promote measures to modernise the sector. That is the focus of the Socialist Party and we will not change that focus. We'll do everything we can. We have done a lot, which I have already explained in the speech I have done, but there are still some things to do, in particular, to which you have mentioned and — allow me to move forward — which has to do with the issues of the municipal quota. It is only natural that this dialogue should be opened. We have a reality that changes, evolves and probably this issue of quota needs to be worked out. The government has already said that it was available for this dialogue, the industry professionals are available to dialogue and this is a path that will be made and will surely undergo evolution, but this has nothing to do with what was presented today by the PSD, which is an atomic bomb in the taxi sector that we will never allow! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the panel has open times, but the Bureau does not record new requests for speech. I don't know how long the waiting compass thinks the Bureau can do, but it won't have to be much. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Bureau says that it gives the PSD the floor to close the debate, it is said and I will not go back! [[Pause.]] Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, signed up to close the debate. After this intervention, there will be no more use of speech. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot fail to note that for three and a half years ago, in the case of this Parliament, this issue has been recurring in debates both in the plenary and in the specialized committee. Promises were made and today, when, for the first time, a party delivers a structured proposal to be discussed in the plenary, the parties cease to debate. I've never seen this, and it's regrettable what happened now! They speak a lot, they promise a lot, but in addition to not presenting proposals that contribute to the debate, they are not even available to debate. I'm ashamed of you! I am ashamed of you, I say it very clearly and vehemently! It's regrettable! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, half a year ago, taxi drivers made six days of strike, blocking not only important arteries of Lisbon as many cities in this country. That is the peace which Mr Pereira comes here to invoke, forgetting what happened a short time ago. And what happened? The government said this was going to decentralization. The way found to demobilize the strike was to say "this goes towards decentralisation! And not in this House, nor out there, no one knows what this is from a concrete point of view, because it is nothing! at that time, once again, and after having waited two and a half years for the results of a working group that the government created to supposedly do the systematic and comprehensive review of the taxi law — two and a half years for nothing! — we are here to say that we are going to put forward a proposal. And, as has already been said, this proposal has been to drink in many and many important aspects, from now on to the international reports — of the OECD, of the European Commission — to the internal reports, in Portugal, of the Competition Authority, which has been alerting for the blocking of this important sector, to the asphyxiation that this sector passes. The reports of the metropolitan authorities themselves have also said that action must be taken to amend the rules, and Mr President of the Republic has also invoked, and in his veto there was an imbalance. If it already existed in the face of the illegality of TVDEs, which operated without any rule for years, the greater was this imbalance from the moment the Assembly of the Republic created, and well, a legal regime for TVDEs, but leaving aside, and badly, this taxi regime. And from there, there's no giving. It is therefore necessary for us to look at this. Let us be clear: we are not imposing anything, on the contrary, we reject the imposition. In 1993, when Mercedes was imported from Germany to serve as a taxi, it was already possible to change its color to beige because the cars coming from Germany were beges and there was no problem! What we say is that whoever wants to have the black and green car, have, there's no problem, but if I want to be a taxi driver tomorrow, first, I don't have to pay 100 000 € or more for a license to exercise this profession! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u94	Follow your dreams!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u95	The PSD rejects this, the monopoly of the market. If I want to be a taxi driver tomorrow, I don't have to pay €100,000 for a license. More: If I want to be a taxi driver tomorrow, I cannot force my car to be the color of my competitor's car; it will be the color I want — black and green, black and red or the color I understand very well. That's what we propose. And do they call this the liberalisation of the sector? We heard here say: « When I transport a passenger from the airport, which is in Maia, to Matosinhos, 5 km away, I can't bring anyone! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is what the taxi associations told us at the different meetings we had. We want this to be possible in order to level the competition with which you can now legally do so without any problem. And come to say that this will be the end of the sector! No, it's the defense of the sector, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, because the end of the sector is to keep what we have. The problem with the Algarve taxi drivers won't improve if all this gets the same, it'll get worse. You can see the pace of TVDE registrations for taxis. You are contributing, yes, to the end of the taxi sector, because you are precisely preventing them from changing the rules and, at the moment, the taxi drivers are fighting completely different rules. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] Mr André Pinotes Batista could have registered and made an intervention! I didn't mean to, you were scared! But don't break my reasoning, sir! [[PSD applause.]] The truth is that competition is installed and in the face of your position of staticism, of not seeing reality, of not seeing how the world has changed and of not seeing that the demands of users who have enjoyed this public service are another, will happen the opposite of what you are saying: more and more taxi drivers will have difficulties, because competition has different rules, easier rules for the user and, above all, for those who drive, for those who work. It will continue to happen that when a Fafe taxi is to take a customer to Guimarães will not be able to take anyone from Guimarães to Fafe, but the TVDE will take a Fafe client to Guimarães and another one from Guimarães to Fafe. And you guys slap this and they say they're protecting the sector. For God's sake! Have a little bit of rigour in the reading of the documents!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u96	How did you vote on TVDE, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u97	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have so many proposals, so many ideas to build, then it is simple: we will do what has never been done. We will generally approve the diploma and, in the specialty, we will collect your contributions. Do you think there should be limits to the metropolitan areas? Let's do that in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u98	But this is done before we put forward a proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u99	The role is in your hands, the action is in your hands and here you have an opportunity of the only document that is in condition in this legislature — I repeat, in this legislature! — be able to promote intervention in this sector. Disecut yourselves, ladies and gentlemen. Taxi drivers! by four months, on 24 July, this Parliament will have its last session of this Parliament and no party can make this late promise. Nor can the CDS turn a draft resolution, where the government was asked to do anything, into a bill. So let's get rid of each other. What you really want to do is do nothing and, above all, do not want to improve the working conditions of the taxi sector in the new world that exists today, the TVDE and the competition they make. They do not want to create conditions for citizens to enjoy this important public service in the best and best manner. You guys think everything's okay. That's your opinion, stay with her. We know it's not right, because for years we've heard the agents in the sector say that we need to change. If you think otherwise, stay with your cup. If, in fact, they had proposals and a desire to act, it would be very simple: in committee, in specialty, we could all build solutions, as we do with so many other things. They don't want to do it, because they have no ideas or solutions and they are, yes, in favor of the end of the taxi sector. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 193 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members Hugo Pires, Jorge Lacão and Joaquim Barreto, of PS, André Silva, of the PAN, and Ana Sofia Bettencourt of the PSD, who failed to proceed to their electronic registration, making 198 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with Vote No 785 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — Despite the death of D. Maurilio Gouveia, Archbishop Emeritus of Évora, who will be read by Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « D. Maurilio Jorge Quintal de Gouveia, Archbishop Emeritus of Évora, died last March 19, 2019, after a long period whipped by the disease. He was born on August 5, 1932, in Santa Luzia, in Funchal, and fulfilled his vocational stage at the Diocesan Seminary of Funchal. Later, in Rome, he graduated in Dogmatic Theology at the Pontifical Gregorian University, also taking a postgraduate degree at Pastoral Theology, at the Pontifical Lateran University. After this period, he returned to Madeira to carry out various pastoral missions. In 1973, Mr.Maurilio de Gouveia received his episcopal appointment through Pope Paul VI. In 1978, the Macedonian bishop was appointed Archbishop of Mitylene, and in 1981 he was appointed Archbishop of Évora, through Pope John Paul II. during the 26 years in which he took account of the fates of the archdiocese alentejana, D. Maurilio de Gouveia stood out for his pastoral commitment, assuming himself as a pioneer in a work of proximity to local Catholic communities. Smiling, delicate, polite, human and humorous, he approached people as a pastor and not with an ideological discourse, in a position so far uncommon in the Portuguese Catholic Church. The high moment of his ministry was the visit of Pope John Paul II to the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Conception, in Vila Viçosa, in 1982. In 2007, having reached 75 years of age, Mr Maurilio de Gouveia presented his resignation as Archbishop of Évora. His last years, already with a very weakened health, were passed on to his native land, Madeira. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic assembled in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of D. Maurilio Gouveia, Archbishop Emeritus of Évora and addresses his condolences to his relatives and to the Catholic Church. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u102	We shall vote for this vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of BE.]] The following vote No 786/ XIII/4. a ( presented by PSD and CDS-PP and subscribed by PS members ) — Despite the death of Augusto José de Matos Sobral Cid, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Augusto José de Matos Sobral Cid, cartunista, caricaturista, illustrator, sculptor and advertising portuguese died on March 14, at age 78, victim of prolonged disease. Augusto Cid, as he was most well known, was born in Faial in 1941, but his acoriance is accidental, since his mother accompanied, at the time of his birth, his husband, lieutenant of artillery, prominent in the Horta. He conducted secondary studies at the School Infante de Sagres and at the Modern College in Lisbon, but finished secondary education in the United States of America and, on his return to Portugal, attended the course of Sculpture of the School of Fine Arts in Lisbon. Before that, he fought in eastern Angola. He tried several jobs before, following April 25, he became very popular thanks to his cartoons. First in the Free People, the official organ of the then PPD, party in which he joined and for which he drew the original symbol of the three sects, and later in newspapers such as The Devil, the Week and the Independent. His cartoon style was provocative and motivated some controversy, with some of his books being seized judicially. He published, illustrated and collaborated in more than four dozen books published, having won the Grand Prix of Porto Cartoon. A catalogue of his works was published in the exhibition « Cid, the Knight of the Cartoon ». On 9 June 1994, he was thanked as Commander of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. Dedicated researcher on the tragedy of Camarate, he collaborated and participated in the work of the Parliamentary Committees of Inquiry, as representative of the victims' families. In September 2012, announces the end of the activity of cartunist, to dedicate himself, exclusively to that of sculptor. However, it resumes at the end of 2015, cartunism, in the Sun Week, with a space entitled « Sombra Sol », with various similarities to Tauromáquica art. To the bereaved family, the Assembly of the Republic presents its condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u104	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, the CFP withdrew its vote of regret and solidarity due to the consequences of the Idai cyclone in the central region of Mozambique, which had submitted in favour of Vote No 784 / XIII / 4. the ( presented by the PAR ) — Of regret and solidarity for the consequences of the passage of the Idai cyclone by Mozambique, which I can only thank. I call on Mrs Sandra Pontedeira to read this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the tragic consequences of the passage of the Idai cyclone through Mozambique territory on 15 March, causing hundreds of fatal victims, thousands of wounded and a significant number of displaced persons, as well as extensive material damage, in particular in the central region ( districts of Búzi, Chibabava and Muanza, in the province of Sofala, and Mossurize, in the province of Manica ). The effects of the Idai cyclone constitute the greatest natural disaster ever felt in Mozambique, causing a trace of destruction in such a generalized way that it competes for the concern of the international community, so many are the lives taken, communities and cultured. The dimension of the tragedy particularly concerns us, because it is the brother people of Mozambique. at the time when many efforts are still being made by the Mozambican authorities to assist many victims and to restore the supply of food, water, energy and communications, particularly in areas most affected by the disaster, the Assembly of the Republic, representing all Portuguese, is associated in its pain with the Mozambican people. In parallel with the full cooperation of the actions carried out by the Portuguese State, with a view to responding rapidly to the consequences of this enormous tragedy, the Assembly of the Republic also expresses its full willingness to extend the existing cooperation programme between the Portuguese Parliament and the Assembly of the Republic of Mozambique and through it to the affected provincial assemblies, contributing to the rapid restoration of its functioning and to the full exercise of its mission as sovereign bodies in Mozambique, with functions of representation of the populations and of monitoring, control and monitoring of provincial governments. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses to the people and to the Mozambican authorities its deepest solidarity, associating itself, at this time of pain, with the national mourning decreed by the President of the Republic of Mozambique, and conveying to the families of the victims its meaning. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u107	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let us now vote vote No 772 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Solidarity for the global youth strike by climate. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE and the PCP.]] The vote on vote No 773 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — From greeting to student climate strike. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 776 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — From greeting to the global student climate strike. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on vote No 777 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the NAP ) — Greetings by the student climate strike. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PCP abstention.]] The vote on vote No 779 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP and the Greens and subscribed by PS and PS Members ) — Greetings of the fight of new generations for the solution of environmental problems. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 780 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PSD ) — From greeting to civic student intervention on the climate and the future of the planet. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, Os Verdes, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against BE and PCP.]] We continue with the vote on vote No 774 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and concern about the situation in Venezuela. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the PCP, the Greens and 2 Members of the CDS-PP (Ilda Araújo Novo and Filipe Anacoreta Correia), votes against the PS, BE and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u108	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u109	What are you doing, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u110	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CDS-PP bench will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u111	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on vote No 781 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the operation of couppista interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and solidarity with the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] The vote on vote No 775 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS ) — Greetings by National and International Day against Racial Discrimination. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u112	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u113	What are you doing, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u114	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u115	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on vote No 782/ XIII/4. a [ presented by the Members of the Delegation of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean ( AP-UpM ) and by the Members of the Delegation of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean ( APM ) — Greetings for the Mediterranean Day. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1156 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the legal regime for public passenger rental activity in light passenger cars ( « taxi » ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and abstentions against the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 2032 / XIII / 4. a ( President of the HR ) — First amendment to the Rules of Procedure for the Management of Performance in the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 49 / 2015 of 8 May 2015. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstentions of the NAP and of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u116	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u117	What are you doing, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u118	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u119	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1781 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — by recognizing and valuing the work of the dealers. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and abstentions from PSD, PS, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on the Proposal for a Law No 177 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Strengthens the fight against tax evasion practices by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will take note of an opinion from the Subcommittee on Ethics, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be voted upon after its reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u120	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Central Court of Lisbon, Case No 11514 / 17.378LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Cristas Assumption ( CDS-PP ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-21.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the votes and, with that, our work today. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 27, at 3 p.m., with the first item on the agenda of the PSD, with the joint discussion of the following legislative initiatives : Bill No. 1172 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — low-density higher education stimulus scheme, 1173 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the legal system of higher education assessment, and 1174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Interpretational provision on propane, in general; Draft Resolution No 2051 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Higher education for children of Portuguese immigrants; Bill Nos 810 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Approves the School Social Action Framework Law in Higher Education and defines specific support for students, 811 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Financing of public higher education, 1145 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( first amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ), 1143 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Remuneration of higher education teachers and 1177 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Alter the legal regime of higher education institutions by strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime, also in general; Resolution Nos 2054 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the procedure for assessing the application of RJIES and 2055 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create incentives to attract Luso-descendant and emigrant candidates to Portuguese higher education institutions. A second point, which was admitted only thanks to the opening of the PSD, whose outstanding goodwill is the general discussion of the Bill No 187 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves contingency measures to be applied in the event of an exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement. Thirdly, we shall have votes on the diplomas under discussion. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 42 minutes.]]
