ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Our very long session today has as its first point an up-to-date debate required by the PSD on the implementation of the Community funds. As no member of the government is yet present, we will make a quick waiting compass. [[Pause.]] Good morning, Mrs. Members of the Government. Let us, then, start the session. To open this current debate Mr António Costa Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Planning, Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs: Mr Minister, both Prime Minister and his predecessor, Dr. Pedro Marques, the worst minister who has passed through this government, have repeatedly failed, and in a clearly misleading way, that in this government the implementation of the funds of Portugal 2020 has been very good. Using the principle that a often repeated lie is a truth, there they will try to pass this misleading message. But, Mr. Planning Minister, for PSD, a lie is, and will always be, a lie.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u4	Another of the misleading messages that really like to pass is that they inherited from the government led by the PSD a situation of execution of the very low funds — another clearly misleading message. We will then clarify : in April 2016, reflecting 2015 data, i.e. the results of governance led by the PSD, the European Commission sent a document to the European Parliament on the money implemented by Portugal 2020. Portugal appears as the Member State with more funds implemented — EUR 888 million. France and the United Kingdom follow. In practice, repossessing the truth, Portugal led the execution of the total money actually paid. in this period, we heard the voices of Prime Minister Antonio Costa and then Minister Pedro Marques, the worst minister who passed through this government, accompanied by the PS's "Titanikian" orchestra, saying that the government then led by the PSD had delivered only 4 million euros to the companies — plus fakenews, a great socialist specialty. The truth—and truth only—is that the implementation of the Community funds is now lower than in the period corresponding to the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework). In the period when this Government entered into office, the implementation rate of Portugal 2020 was well above the then homologous period. [ Picture 1 ] Interestingly, red governance, as you see in the image, is even worse than the pink government of Socrates. To deceive the Portuguese, spreading more confusion, you like to mix payment with execution. It is that between approved projects and money actually delivered and executed there is a huge difference. In fact, you are failing to implement the Community funds. We clearly harm Portugal! The other misleading news, but which systematically repeats, especially Mr. Prime Minister and former Minister Pedro Marques, no doubt the worst minister who went through this government, is about the current Portuguese situation in the implementation and payment of the funds. It was mentioned very recently by the Prime Minister that Portugal was the 2nd. the best classified and, of course, Pedro Marques did not stand by the adjustments, and said: "No, we are in 1. The place! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In fact, see the table below, which is demonstrative. [ Picture 2 ] However, when we check the reality, we see nothing like this! in an information submitted by the European Commission, dated 31 January, and sent to the European Parliament, it is clear that Portugal was 7. the place. Portugal has only a very low 33 % of implementation such as Greece and Spain. The ability is always the same: António Costa and his former minister, the worst minister who has passed through this government, compare only with countries of the same size. But one thing is certain: in previous governance, led by the PSD, Portugal was ahead in implementing Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u5	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u6	Mr Minister, another worrying issue has to do with the absence of performance assessment indicators. Portugal 2020's quarterly bulletins prove that. Pedro Marques, the worst minister who passed through this government, never presented or published these indicators! [[Protests by PS MP João Azevedo Castro.]] That is information requested by this Parliament which has been systematically ignored by the Government. This is not a minor matter. This assessment is crucial for Portugal to achieve the additional 6 % of the efficiency reserve. It means that we are at risk of losing EUR 6 billion from the Community funds. Mr Minister, the latest misinformation and extremely worrying has to do with the weak implementation of Portugal 2020 and some of its operational programmes. [[Protests by PS MP João Azevedo Castro.]] Five years have passed and the execution rate is 32 %, 6 %, to be more precise. 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 and no third of the partnership agreement is implemented. Mr Minister, this execution has clearly demonstrated why investment in Portugal has negative historical records. This weak execution is evidence of the lack of operation of our public infrastructures. That is why our railway does not work and we have to deal with the abolition of trains and many of their delays. That's why trains and cantons fall down as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u7	What a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u8	That is why our hospitals, our schools and many of our public infrastructures are in clear degradation. The Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use (POSEUR) has an implementation of 20 %. This is one of the main instruments for the implementation of public policies. [ Picture 3 ] Mr Minister, to conclude, you and your predecessor, Pedro Marques, who was the worst minister who has passed through this government, are the big ones responsible for the freezing of public investment in the last three years. In relation to other programmes, implementation is also very weak. How is it justified that the implementation of the Competent Programme was 32, 2 % and of the Operational Programme Social Inclusion and Employment of only 28, 3 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u9	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u10	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. How is it justified that regional operational programmes, by a large majority, have been implemented by around 20 %? How is it justified that the Cohesion Fund has the very low implementation of 18 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u11	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u12	This is indeed a small government also in the implementation of Community funds. It is a government that the Portuguese will not forget, but for the worst reasons. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u13	Mr Pedro Coimbra of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u14	Mr President, Minister of Planning, Secretary of State for Regional Development, Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We are all, of course, well aware of the importance of Community funds for Portugal as regards our competitiveness and our economy, as well as the development and cohesion of our territory. The application of Community funds over the years has been absolutely essential for strengthening the competitiveness of our companies and our scientific and technological systems, and is also the main advantage of public investment by the authorities and the central administration. It is also known that one of the objectives of the current government's action with regard to European funds was the resolution of a large set of constraints on the date of its taking over, thus allowing tenders to be opened so that applications could be made, so that they could be analysed and approved so that they could finally be executed. Yes, it is true, as a result of a bad negotiation of the PSD/CDS Government, with exaggerated and disparate financial instruments—in fact, Portugal was even the second country with more financial instruments—the current Socialist Party Government was required to lead a reprogramming of the current multi-annual Community framework to which — inconsistencies, it is said — the PSD and the CDS opposed. Fortunately, this reprogramming was a success. A success for the current government and a success, too, for who led it, that was Pedro Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u15	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u16	This reprogramming was a success. It has been a success especially for Portugal and the Portuguese, because from here it has resulted in a much greater adaptation of Portugal 2020 to the reality and needs of the country, going far beyond those that are the real investment needs. But we are going, in particular, to the subject of the debate required by the PSD: implementation of the Community funds. When I read the request for this debate, I didn't really want to believe it. I asked myself: "The PSD wants to talk about implementing Community funds? Oh, my God! The same PSD that left the government with the implementation of the Community funds in anemic state? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u17	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u18	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u19	Well, then let's go to the numbers, because the numbers don't fool. Firstly, the implementation at the date of exit of the PSD/CDS Government was 2 %, i.e. little more than zero! That is, the PSD/CDS government has executed EUR 4 million in two years. Secondly, the implementation at this date by the current Government is 33 %, i.e. the PS Government has executed EUR 2000 million in three years. I repeat : EUR 2 million in two years by the right government; EUR 2000 million by the Government of the Socialist Party in three years! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u20	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u21	But let's keep going. Third, the overall public investment leveraged by Portugal 2020 funds rose by 57 % in 2018. Fourthly, in 2019 and 2020 we will again have significant growth. Fifthly, in order to speed up implementation, the Government will anticipate the closure of Portugal 2020 by the end of 2019 in terms of project approval. All this is concrete and objective data.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u22	It's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u23	In Europe, it is consensual that Portugal goes ahead with the implementation of Community funds when considered the countries receiving equal financial envelopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u24	It's true! [[PSD laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u25	I'm asking the ladies. Members to let your colleague express himself. They may disagree, but they can't interrupt.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u26	Portugal has EUR 20 billion for implementation. Luxembourg has only EUR 140 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u27	That's a fact! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u28	Of course they are facts and of course we cannot compare what is incomparable. They're quite different realities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I end with an objective and clear question to the Government: Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether the already mentioned reprogramming of the framework already has concrete effects in the country and if you can already tell us something about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u29	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not register. Today, the gentlemen. Members are willing to waste time on nothing, which, as you know, does not exist. I ask any of the benches to break this impasse quickly. One day, we will even move on to the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block, was signed. You have the floor, Mr President, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate began by being an attempt by the PSD to clear the image of incompetence in the programming of Portugal 2020,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... to do this cleaning in a series of areas where it was quickly realized, after the beginning of this legislation, that there were a set of distortions and imbalances in this programming in several areas, particularly in the area of POSEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources), and in particular with regard to the programming of funds in relation to its application in transport and infrastructure projects. This distortion resulted from misconceptions and ideas of the previous government's planning process, in particular a misplanning and programming process of the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan, PETI 3 +, which focused on all the essential investments in the transport of goods, ignoring what had to do with the essential component of rail passenger transport. From this point of view, this Government's reprogramming in this area has tried to correct some of the shortcomings in the past, particularly with a higher bet on passenger transport and especially on passenger transport infrastructure. However, what the Government has made in these choices regarding passenger transport projects is quite questionable, and, in our view, it lacks a reassessment in order to determine whether the options of these investment projects are the correct ones from the point of view of sustainable mobility and from the point of view of correcting passenger transport in railway infrastructures. The choices that the Government has made, either in the options it has taken on the meters, on the Cascais Line and on the World Mobility System, deserve on our part a frontal opposition and some questions to the government to see whether the cost/benefit analysis that has been made corresponded to, indeed, a rigorous assessment of the cost of opportunity of the capital that will be involved in these projects and which, in our view, need a greater explanation. Therefore, considering the opposition chorus that the options of the metro in Porto and Lisbon to put two circular lines, which will induce an increase in the overall cost of transport, by a number of people who use radial lines of access to the city of Porto and the city of Lisbon, I ask Mr. Minister if there will not be a need for a new reassessment, on behalf of other options that will perhaps be more effective and sustainable from the point of view of responding to mobility projects in these urban areas. On the other hand, I would also like to ask the Minister whether it would not be necessary to reassess also the Mondego Mobility System project itself on behalf of a railway infrastructure project and not on behalf of a project whose technology and efficiency is still to be demonstrated, judging by the examples that we can use in some metropolitan areas that exist in Europe. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u31	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u32	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will try to start this debate using some facts. We will compare what is comparable, i.e., the implementation of the current Portugal 2020 framework to about two years of its conclusion with the implementation of the National Strategic Reference Framework, at the same time, about two years before its completion. In December 2011 the QREN was executed at 39 % — here among us, even though it was not a brilliant execution. at the moment, comparing what is comparable, the PT 2020 was, in December 2018, executed at 29 %, i.e. 10 percentage points below what Portugal had achieved during the same period in the previous table. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u33	We look at some specific programmes: Railway 2020, which was due to end in 2020 — implementation of 9 %; MAR2020 — implementation of 23 %; non-retirement — implementation of 32 %; Competent 2020 — implementation of 32 %; matters relating to the cohesion fund, essential for Portugal — implementation of 18 %; ERDF — implementation of 29 %; European Social Fund — implementation of 34 %. As regards agriculture, we now have about 30 000 applications for investment support. We are talking about new farms and the increase in the productive capacity of our agriculture, which did not even respond by the government. of these 30 000 applications, 8311 are young farmers. These data are objective and on this matter the Government can say nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u34	Better, you can say — and we have to record — that there is an amendment. Since the worst minister of this government, who was Minister Pedro de Marques, has been released, who has received the prize of being a candidate for Brussels, we recognize that there is at least one amendment. Looking at a government official from the PT 2020 programme, the government says, and I quote : « To try to close the complaints of companies relating to delays in EU funds, whether in the analysis of applications, or later in the payment of incentives, a new simplification measure will now be launched there more by the end of the year ». At least Mr Minister for the first time acknowledges that there are delays, that companies are complaining, but the fact is that we do not see the implementation of the Community funds going forward. We realize that the worst minister of this government, Pedro Marques, was awarded, but the truth is one, and only one: when Portugal more precise, the Socialist Party lost. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u35	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : First of all, we would like to stress in this debate that the worst thing can be done is to discuss real problems with false approaches. We have a real problem in our country, which has to do with investment, sustained and integrated development, with the effective use of the resources that our country has and with what our population needs for territorial cohesion, for better living conditions, for economic growth and for employment generation. But it is not, by any means, through the policies that have been imposed by the European Union so that then those who have been responsible for objectives for the choices that prevailed in this country will be accused of low implementation, and they themselves have been responsible for that implementation. There is a presence that stands out on this debate, of course with the messages, which have already been transmitted here, by Dr. Paulo Rangel directed to former Minister Pedro Marques. And if in the shadow of this discussion is the first candidate of the PSD, surely we cannot ignore here the role and intervention that the last candidate of the PSD, Dr. Poiares Maduro, who, as Minister, came at the time to present to the Country and Assembly of the Republic a set of promises and propaganda slogans that turned out to be a true flop.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u38	It says the people, and rightly, «the stick that is born wrong, late or never straight». We are facing a process of a Community framework in a partnership agreement that has been a failure, in which Portugal has lost across the line, where populations and development have been lost. And now we are basically subject to the same considerations, in which this guideline of the current framework for Portugal 2020, the Europe 2020 strategy, from the point of view of the European Commission and the partnership agreement that was negotiated by the previous Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u40	They promised the deburocratization, simplification, the fastest and easiest processes in applications for Community funds and what we had, from the outset, was an experience in which, still recently, in the Assembly of the Republic, we heard responsible, including politicians, universities, companies and the authorities themselves, that they were transformed into process managers for applications that become labyrinthics and for situations that become impossible to manage. This is what we have today, as a result of the options of the past, but also of quite insufficient reprogramming in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u41	Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u42	We continue with a policy line of a Community framework and guidance from Brussels that continues to put development and public investment as a kind of by-product of European integration options. And it is a by-product that is still insufficient, because, to a large extent, it has been put at the top of priorities in relation to what was the real priority of the previous government, to benefit the economic groups, particularly the financial sector. When they propagated financial instruments as a brilliant and innovative solution to apply resources with a supposed multiplier effect that would perform miracles, I ask the honourable Members. PSD members, but also PS and CDS, what is the balance sheet they make of these financial instruments and of the panacea that would be the so-called « Development Bank »?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u43	Ask the government, you're there on the bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u44	After all, who got to win wasn't the financial sector and the private commercial bank, first of all? After all, what has happened was not a monumental failure for the investment and for the real economy of our country, for the sake of the cleaning and balance, of the solvency of our banks, who remained as depositors and managers of these resources? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, we cannot only do a rigorous and serious political analysis of what can be the balance sheet of the implementation of these Community support frameworks, in particular this framework Portugal 2020, looking only for comparison with other countries. We are not particularly happy that there are 20 countries that are worse than Portugal in this regard, nor are we particularly distressed that there are countries like Austria, with 49 % implementation, compared with 36% of Portugal. The problem is structural and indeed political orientation in the face of a Community framework — and I conclude, Mr President — which is far, far from compensating, because it could never compensate for the losses of sovereignty, productive capacity and development that this policy of the European Union is imposing on our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u45	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall look to the end to the answers to the various questions which you have raised. Ladies and gentlemen put me in. There is a truth that we reaffirm: Portugal is in the front platoon of those who most implement Community funds in the European Union! At the end of 2018, and in order to avoid further complaints about the indicators to be used, Portugal was in absolute terms the second country which in the European Union received the most from Community funds only supplanted by Poland which, as we all know, has a four-fold financial package available to Portugal. We reaffirm once again that our indicator, the indicator we have always used — it is not at present, it is not a circumstance — is the one that compares us with countries with larger financial packages, i.e. financial packages greater than EUR 5000 million. At the end of 2018, we reaffirmed here, in this House, that Portugal led this ranking with 29%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of the evidence of these data, which are objective, have no discussion, as much as they want us to delude with data and other forms of treatment, we naturally, in the first analysis, always find it difficult to understand those who fear not to accept the crystalline evidence of them. Reflecting better, perhaps we can find some explanation for the fact, because after all we detect in those who challenge the evidence of these facts the same political leaders who negotiated, implemented and started this partnership agreement and this Portugal 2020. These were the same ones that, during the first two years, failed to make payments to companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They were the same ones that, at the beginning of the framework, artificially inflated EUR 2, EUR 6 billion of financial instruments in regional operational programmes in a blatant and disproportionate way only to appear as the champions of regionalization of funds, causing blocking and low execution rates in regional OPs (operational programmes). Only the recent reprogramming of the funds enabled the creation of operational conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It may be difficult to see that even in this framework, even with these difficulties, we have introduced mechanisms and measures to have rates around 17 %, 18 % and 20 %, even when an essential part of the resources affected by regional operational programmes were blocked by financial instruments, which those responsible, when designing the programmes, knew that they would not be used because it was clearly impossible to use those amounts of financial instruments within the framework of regional operational programmes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This government in the area of the Structural Funds — until a very short time ago, led, and well, by former Minister Pedro Marques —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... it was able to lead to a good rate of implementation of the Community funds; it was able to reprogram, creating new conditions; it was able, for example, today, to complete the first major competition of the new innovation incentive system, once again, to encourage the accession of entrepreneurs, of productive investment, and to receive nearly 600 000 applications, worth EUR 1. 5 billion, which demonstrates the accession of entrepreneurs to the policy of Portugal 2020, of appeal to productive business investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u47	Mr Minister, three Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u48	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u49	You have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mr Heitor de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u50	Mr President, Minister, here has given a correct idea of the importance of reprogramming, especially in such a programme, whose total financial envelope is not so special. As you mentioned, it is EUR 2, EUR 6 billion, about 10 % of a total of EUR 26 billion, so I do not think it is a major reprogramming. However, it is an important sign, because it seeks to correct some of the areas that were lacking in the application of Community resources and funds. Mr Minister, I insist on the concrete questions I put to you about investment projects on the level of sustainable mobility and on the error you are trying to make, particularly on the circular lines of the meters of Lisbon and Porto and also in the case of the World Mobility System, which is an option for a technology that is still at the beginning of...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u51	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u52	... and whose sustainability for the future is dubious efficiency and dubious effectiveness. I repeat that there is the possibility of reprogramming to cover new options that, from the point of view of mobility in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and in the urban area of Mondego, can be more effective and more useful from the social point of view. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u53	Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u54	Mr President, Minister for Planning, I confess that when we started this debate there was some expectation that the Minister would take the opportunity to break with the legacy of his predecessor, Minister Pedro Marques, the worst minister who went through this government, but after all I find exactly the same record, the same speech and the same practice. In his speech and evaluation, there are the same ads, the same propaganda, the same half-truths, the same feeling, the same mania of greatness. I begin by referring to a very concrete aspect: Mr Minister repeated the narrative that the Socialist Party had already begun, saying that the previous Government had mistraced the funds and the Portugal 2020 programme. I remind the Minister that the partnership agreement was accompanied by an important person of the Socialist Party, Prof. Caldeira Cabral, who cannot be contacted with the previous government because he was invited not only to be Minister of Economics of the PS Government, as he will now be indicated to an important regulatory body and therefore represented not only the Socialist Party then, as this Government represents. Now, this partnership agreement was negotiated and signed by the Socialist Party. So when you say that we have nothing to do with the past, it is another act of irresponsibility that you do not want to take responsibility for something that you have assumed and fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]] But, moreover, Minister : you also said that the execution is perfect and that, in fact, what is being done is that it is okay, what is behind it is that it is wrong. So when does V. Exa face daily problems in program management? Mr Minister, one year ago IAPMEI (Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Innovation Support Institute) has problems with paying to entrepreneurs who have already invested and who are awaiting these same payments. IAPMEI does not have the conditions for evaluating and analysing the processes. Does Mr. Minister have anything to say about this?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u55	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u56	When and how will this problem be solved? No more contracts or inclusion of new employees will be announced, the entrepreneurs in this country want to know when they will be able to receive, in the time it is stipulated, their investments, the reimbursement of the funds they have spent, when the projects can be analyzed, when the country, which at this time needs private investment, may have a normalized situation with respect to the IAPMEI. Mr. Minister is able to tell me when he's going to solve this problem and how will he solve it? Mr Minister, I would also like to mention another very important issue. The Minister talks about regional programmes, but there is, in the history of the Community funds in Portugal, no government that has been as centralizing, as centralist as this one. It has withdrawn — I would like to use a stronger word, but because of respect for this House I will not do so — to the regional managers a number of tasks and powers which have been allocated to it, not only by the partnership agreement, but by the European Union itself. The Minister does not allow competitions; there is no competition for regional programmes that do not go through the centralist crisis, the controller of his office.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u57	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u58	When are you going to return those skills? When will it give regions and regional managers the full scope of their functions in order to put the programmes to work? Mr Minister, it is not enough to speak in decentralisation, not enough to speak in regionalization and then, day by day, to have a centralist practice that ignores the rest of the country and harms the Portuguese and Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u59	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u60	Mr President, Minister for Planning, I hope you will use these 11 seconds of it to answer the question I put to you on agriculture, in particular. We are talking about data from January 2019, about 30 000 applications for investment support, so we are talking about new holdings, of increasing the country's productive capacity in the area of agriculture, for which there is no response. More than 8000 of these applications are for young farmers, which is essential until we have the ability to rejuvenate our agriculture and our farmers. On this point, the Minister said nothing. And I hope you will not listen, saying that this is a matter for your colleague who has the pasta of agriculture, shaking the water from the hood.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u62	But I would like to ask you the following very concrete question: in February 2019 your predecessor Pedro Marques, probably the worst minister of this government, the personality you have already mentioned, said that Portugal was first in the implementation of European funds. It wasn't second, it wasn't in the front platoon, it wasn't those who were most executed, it was first! And, Mr Minister, first there can be only one, not two or three. Now, I went to check the numbers: in January 2019, according to the data that were known at that time, Portugal was the seventh in percentage terms and it was the fourth in absolute values. Even at the end of 2018, Portugal was neither the first nor the first in percentage terms nor in absolute terms. In fact, the time when Portugal was first in the implementation of the Community funds was at the end of 2015. In fact, at the end of 2015 with another government, in absolute terms and in percentage terms, Portugal was the first in implementation, but surely Minister Pedro Marques was not talking about the former Government, he was talking about this government. That is why, Mr Minister, I ask you the following: is the ex-Minister Pedro Marques' statement that Portugal is first in the implementation of the European funds false or is it true? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u63	In order to reply in a synthetic way, Mr. Minister for Planning has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, quickly, because I have only 11 seconds, when it comes to mobility issues, the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto have an essential role to play in defining their mobility solutions and therefore must be heard. Mr Heitor de Sousa, I have no time to answer, but this is something that will be discussed in conjunction with my colleague from the Ministry of Environment and Energy Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u65	It's only half a year to finish the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u66	On the issue of IAPMEI and payment to companies — Mr Mota Soares had already asked the question — we are strengthening the means. While there is only one delay, we will be concerned, but we will not fail to say that 2018 was the largest year of payments to companies since there are Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u67	Mr Minister, you really have to walk towards the end of your answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u68	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, I am responding to Mr Pedro Mota Soares' question about agriculture. It is not because it is not my competence, but the matter must indeed be addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u69	To close the debate, Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u70	Mr President, Minister, in his last reply, it was clear that this Government's lack of energy was so important to Portugal. Our country uses Community funds at 85 % of public investment — 85 %! — and the PO SEUR has an implementation of 20 % when five years have passed. And these years are your responsibility! You are finishing this legislation and you are one of the ones responsible! At the same time, Minister Pedro Marques, because he has spent more time with this past, and who is truly the worst minister who has passed through this government, is one of the major responsible for the disaster in implementing Community funds. [[PS protests.]] We understand that you are only Minister of Planning, the matter of infrastructure has never been in your portfolio, but it has not been in the folder of your predecessor, the Minister of Planning and Infrastructure. It is that they do not exist, in fact. Mr Minister, in conclusion, I will give you some very clear information: I will ask you to distribute to this House the reports and data of the European Commission which have been delivered to the European Parliament on effective implementation. There it is clearly demonstrated what has been done in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u71	We have reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We will move on to the second point, which is part of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1976 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement measures to prevent and combat domestic violence and 1998 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government increase measures to improve the capacity to respond to situations of domestic violence. To present the PSD initiative, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This year, in our country, 12 women have already died in a family context, which represents an increase in relation to the numbers recorded in the same period of the previous year. This means that this phenomenon, unfortunately, is far from diminishing. As such, repeated and continuous efforts are required in their fight and prevention. The PSD Parliamentary Group presents here today this draft resolution, which contains concrete and specific measures, urging the Government to act immediately in order to make the system more efficient. It's worrying, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that most of the victims whose deaths occurred this year were already duly signaled by the system. Most of the issues we have brought here have also been identified by experts, by various public entities and do not necessarily require major innovations or legislative changes; they are essentially due to the smooth implementation of the existing law and the political commitment of the Government to conform the transversality of these policies into joint and common action. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that has not been done. It would have been much more successful if the government had, during these three years, implemented measures at the level of coordination and coordination of services, instead of systematically walking in protocol signatures and instead of systematically establishing working groups to study, analyze and diagnose things that we all already know. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to move on. And this work is done: the measures presented here are not even our invention, resulting from the report of the group of international experts accompanying the implementation of the Istanbul Convention and resulting from the work of the retrospective analysis team in a conjugal context, which produced recommendations that were addressed to the Government, but we are not aware that it has implemented them. The measures deal with the lack of support and protection for victims during the legal process, as well as the lack of coordination between criminal courts and families, which are very evident issues in these reports and which, as I said, do not need legislative amendment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, cases in which mothers who are obliged by the family court to take the child to visit the father in prison, where he is arrested for assault on the woman, neglecting the impact this contact has on the victim, are to avoid, as has happened, in which the family court handed over information about the foster home where the mother was, questioning not only the mother's safety but also that of the other women. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u73	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u74	There is a need to expand the program for domestic violence aggressors—in 2013, it was extended to the whole country—particularly in a prison context, which has been operating on pilot project for three years. We do not know that it has been extended, as the government said it was intended to do. The importance of the implementation of local plans in the context of domestic violence or gender equality contrasts with the de-investment in the network of solidarity municipalities. In the first three years, until 2015, 122 municipalities joined and in the last three years, until now, approximately 30 municipalities joined.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u75	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u76	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to the training of judges and security forces, the numbers tell us that it has been 'detensified' and all the reports tell us that it is absolutely essential. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is needed is more action and less propaganda, more struggle and less mourning. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u77	Before giving the floor to Mr André Silva, I would like to say to the House that today we have a very broad agenda, so I would like to thank the parliamentary groups who, when they want to register, do so in time and, above all, thank the honourable Members. Members who respect the times they are assigned — 3 minutes is 3 minutes, it is not 4 minutes and anything. To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence is one of the most prevalent crimes in Portugal. In 2017, around 27 000 occurrences were recorded throughout the national territory, resulting in an alarming average of 73 people assaulted per day. 13 women victims of domestic violence have already died this year. We are faced with a notorious lack of training of the different judicial actors in relation to the specific dynamics of domestic violence, and the addition of technical consulting, with specialists in psychology or specialized social service, would represent a greater value in these cases. Thus, we propose the creation of a multidisciplinary team that provides advice to judges and public prosecutors, giving greater consistency and speed to decisions and signaling cases of parental alienation. On the other hand, shelters, which aim to ensure the monitoring and protection of victims of domestic violence, represent an essential step in the effort to combat domestic violence. There are no data relating to the size of the number or geographical distribution of shelters and there may be points in the country where there is no complete response to this problem. Therefore, it is appropriate to ascertain these elements, considering the various geographical points in Portugal, keeping this information in secret in order to de-scurt where there is no response capacity for the victims of this crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss projects relating to domestic violence, which is a heinous crime, a social scourge and a shocking violation of human rights. Having said this, I would also like to note that on the PCP side we want to talk about this matter starting the centrality that must be given to the victims and their protection. I would also like to say — the CFP has already said and is doing so again — that it is urgent to strengthen public services with adequate material and human resources and with the necessary training in the National Health Service, in social security, in security forces and services, in the judicial authorities. It is urgent to ensure the effectiveness of measures to prevent domestic violence, and the public school has an irreplaceable role here. It is urgent to ensure the effective implementation of victim protection measures. It is also urgent to provide psychological support to all victims throughout the proceedings, from the report at the police station, to situations in which home-to-home reception is held or not, at different times of decision-making, that is, at all stages of the judicial process until the beginning of a new life. The CFP presented a proposal for the establishment of a national committee for the prevention and protection of victims of domestic violence, similar to what has already happened with the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk (CNPCJR). The proposals here under discussion — particularly those of the PSD — are peaceful and intend to comply with what the law already provides. In other words, the law already provides for a number of subjects which are not implemented in practice. The PSD project has, in fact, an incredible ability to talk about the implementation of measures without making a single reference to the need for public investment and the strengthening of professionals in public services, therefore, as if the measures had to be realized by work and divine grace and not with the need for public investment, the hiring of more professionals, as well as the strengthening of their training. All this, Mrs Sandra Pereira, demands public investment, and the State has the direct responsibility of ensuring it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u82	With regard to the PSD proposal to be the Ministry of Protection to ensure the coordination and prevention of the protection of victims, the CFP has a different understanding and therefore proposed the establishment of a national committee to protect victims of violence. It is necessary to deal with this issue cross-sectionally and it requires, as has already happened with CNPCJR, the creation of a structure that ensures such coordination, regardless of whether or not it protects the political follow-up of what must be done. on our part, we are in a position to follow the proposal presented by the PSD on these matters. However, I would like to say that combating and preventing domestic violence requires public investment and an active role by the State and public services, which requires more investment, more campaigns and more professionals, including psychologists, that there are virtually no public services accompanying the victims. But this requires, first of all, a very clear commitment by the State in this fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have reinforced, deep and insistently, particularly in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, the idea of zero tolerance to the crime of domestic violence. We are talking about a matter where the political agenda has not been different. It is therefore a matter that has not been outside the political agenda. Various legislation has been produced to combat the crime of domestic violence, several plans, various programmes, various strategies have been built, but the truth is, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to look at the concrete reality and the numbers speak for you. The number of complaints and the number of victims — particularly fatal victims — are deeply worrisome and, indeed, this year, compared to last year's counterpart period, there is a escalation in the heinous consequences of this absolutely horrible crime, which still affects so many silently and many women. So also political power should not cross its arms, thinking that, in terms of legislation and planning, let us say so, everything is more or less concrete. We must be alert to reality and act in consonance and consequently to this reality that we know. For this reason, the Greens consider it essential — we have already said — that vocational training should be carried out in a continuous and recurrent way, in order to produce concrete effects, in particular with regard to an essential issue: support for the victim. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the parties that present projects on this matter deliberately forget, we believe, a fundamental question: strengthening the means to give the necessary answers. Do we have sufficient means for the security forces to do this? We don't! Do we have sufficient resources at the level of the Committee on the Protection of Children and Youth, with sufficient technicians? We don't! Do we have sufficient social security technicians? We don't, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, when the PSD, in government, with the CDS, fired and ruled out public officials, what it was doing was precisely weakening the responses that the system and public services could give, not only in these matters, but in others. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of means is a matter of fact, it must not be careless and should be put at the heart of the discussion on domestic violence. When we talk about support for the victim, not only is the formation of means but there is also a sufficient number of means to ensure that this response is given.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u85	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u86	Mr President, this is what the Greens would like to highlight in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u87	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are again discussing domestic violence, an issue that is on the agenda and it is important that we continue on the agenda, because it is a fight without hindrance that we all have to stop. It is a fight of all and of society in particular that is, fortunately, increasingly awakening to the impact and devastation of this crime. Violence against women is an obstacle to the realization of equality and is a fragility of democracy itself and therefore its eradication is, for the Socialist Party, an unthinkable imperative. In fact, let's talk about action. The Socialist Party, in the Government Programme, even establishes the imperative need to coordinate and monitor « cross-border strategies to combat gender-based violence and domestic violence, emphasizing training, awareness-raising, prevention[...] linked to security forces, the judicial system and social protection mechanisms ». We have a permanent agenda for equality and for the fight against domestic violence which, in fact, is well mirrored in the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination and in the Action Plan for Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. The latter has already led us to hold cooperation protocols for the specialized training of lawyers, judges, professionals, and to carry out subsequent cadres, where the issue of domestic violence is worked with these professionals, involving the Advocates' Order, the Centre for Judicial Studies and the Attorney General's Office of the Republic. Also in the area of health we have come, in all the protocols of the National Network of Support to the Victims of Domestic Violence and in their territorialization to involve the Regional Health Administration, the local health units, assuming these entities the training, registration and support to the victims. Also in social security this fight has not been forgotten, because it is a comprehensive and cross-cutting work, through the development of measures and instruments for the prevention of violence. We must not fail to mention those who unfortunately insist on favouring this debate and who strictly devalue everything that has been done. From 2014 to 2017, we have worked to strengthen the investment and the work of preventing violence: there is more teleassisción—there has increased 251 % —, more electronic surveillance— increased 93 % — the network of solidarity municipalities has grown and in the first half of 2019 we will have more 23 municipalities involved, also the victim support offices have expanded and are now457 and out there. I would also like to say that this Parliamentary Group has been concerned with the provisional regulation of the parental responsibilities of individuals involved in domestic violence through Law No 24 / 2017, approved in this Parliament. Obviously, at this particular stage, with the recommendations of the expert group and the retrospective analysis team and taking into account the large number of women murdered in 2019, a large programme of work is under way which the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 52 / 2019 also mirrors. However, the draft resolutions here in equation seem to devalue it or ignore it, until the proposals, either from the NAP or the PSD, end up emptying themselves or even consuming it in this work program.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u89	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u90	Mr President, in conclusion, in this great work front and with this new multidisciplinary technical team, we will improve victim protection mechanisms. I would like to highlight here the six offices in the DIAP ( Department of Research and Criminal Action ) which will be created to support these matters — yesterday, the Minister of Justice re-enforced him at the hearing in 1. the Commission — and concern with training and with all the strategic public for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u91	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u92	Mr President, with your tolerance, I say only that this debate takes place in public school, it is done in education, citizenship, gender equality that this Government has placed in all schools in our country. That all children, that all parents and society realize that gender equality in schools cannot be an option or an optional theme. Human rights are not optional! Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u93	Madam Member, the problem is not my tolerance. But, therefore, the work is endlessly drawn. On behalf of the Left Block, you have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I honestly do not know whether this debate is to be a serious debate or whether it is to be taken into account. The PSD brings us a draft resolution dated 7 February, listing several recommendations as a matter of urgency and several gaps in our system identified in the GREVIO assessment report ( Expert Group for Combating Violence against Women Domestic Violence ), but also in the various reports of the Retrospective Homicide Analysis Team in Domestic Violence. It also stresses the urgent need to cover these gaps, but then states that "they do not necessarily need major innovations or legislative changes, they are essentially due to the proper implementation of the existing law". All this would be very consistent, even with the PSD speech in the discussions we have had in this House on this matter, if it had not entered this House on exactly one month later, on 7 March, a set of bills in which the PSD comes to state: « there are several improvements that can and should be introduced into the Domestic Violence Act in order to improve and enhance its application », reinforcing that « the legal adjustments should not be left here ». However, this derives from, on one day, outright rejection of the need for any amendment to the law, especially when bills of law from other parliamentary groups are involved and if they are to be called upon for amendments to the law, they leave us without knowing whether the PSD really wants to discuss these matters seriously. But I am glad that the PSD has finally come to recognize what all the actors working on the ground, in this area, have come saying and finally resolved also to follow the Left Block. We are used to taking a path in many areas!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u96	Finally, welcome the debate that needs to be held in the fight against domestic violence. The measures proposed here with this draft resolution are welcomed by the Left Block. With regard to the draft resolution of the NAP, despite the kindness of the measures, both with regard to raising the adequacy of the number of shelters and the creation of multidisciplinary teams to support the judicial system, we must reveal our strangeness with regard to a speech that is dangerous and that must be avoided. We cannot fail to ask which studies and data the NAP is based on to say that "a considerable number of cases of domestic violence and sexual abuse of children result from false complaints". The existing studies, at international level, to which Portugal will not be strange, tell us, on the contrary, that the false allegations are, in fact, residual. A study in the United Kingdom, for example, opened nine false claims in 111 891 domestic violence cases in one year. The idea of false complaints has often been used to reinforce the argument that the phenomenon is exaggerated and has the effect of boosting the prejudice that women lie. The use of parental alienation syndrome supports this purpose and it is important to note that this is a theory that lacks scientific basis, being even rejected by the Association of American Psychiatry and by the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u97	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u98	For these reasons, we will abstain from this project. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Elza Pais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u99	You now have the floor for an intervention, the CDS-PP. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of domestic violence has been a constant problem in this House, both in recent days and in more remote days, which has, of course, a good side, but also has a bad side. The good side is the fact that all political-party forces seated in this House have an effective notion of what is happening, that they are attentive and committed to solving the problem. But it also has the obvious bad side that this means that the problem is falling and that the agenda remains contaminated by this highly disturbing reality. We all know that only this year, which does not count at least three full months, 12 women have already died victims of this heinous crime. We also know that it is a rather alarming black figure, even because in three months we already have nearly half of the victims of the previous full year. So this is an issue that we really need to deal with. It is true that much has been done over the years, it is true that Portugal is on the right track, it is true that we subscribe to all the international instruments to subscribe to this matter, that we put them into law, that we certainly have plans, that we have tools for analysis, that we certainly have a quite stable legal framework. But we also know that they have failed and have failed to prevent, articulate and coordinate, and we all know that they have failed the means. So the system has failed in its whole. This same has been signaled either in the GREVIO report, or in the reports of the Retrospective Homicide Analysis Team in Domestic Violence. in this perspective, the two resolutions presented, either by the PSD, or by the NAP, although they do not bring great novelty, deserve our consent for helping to oil the system, which is also absolutely necessary. That is positive and therefore we welcome it. We all know, however, that these two resolutions are not enough for all that needs to be done. There is a need to work deeper on early risk prevention and detection. We all know that this has been a serious problem and that multidisciplinary answers are needed — that is where we have to work. In addition, of course, we have to provide the media system, because it can all be written on paper, we can have the best instruments and the best possible laws, but if we do not have the effective and sufficient means for this fight, obviously it does not matter what is on the paper. Mrs Rita Rato and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia recently indicated that. It's all true! The media have failed in the past and fail in the present. What is needed is that, indeed, if you want to provide the media system and that is what has not been done. This government has been ruling for almost four years, so it is important that it does what it has to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u101	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u102	I will finish, Mr. President. The CDS has already presented three projects in this area, of which we have already spoken. We have to replicate the office of support to the victim of the Port PSP, we have to have more initial training, we have to move systematically into the Penal Code, which we have already presented a year ago, and we have to see what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u103	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u104	I shall end, Mr President, with the tolerance that it has also given to the other parties, although with systematic warnings. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that we are available to study all the proposals on the table. What is needed is that we all agree to find the best policies for this scourge that must indeed be fought. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u105	To close the debate on this point, Mrs Sandra Pereira has once again given her the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u106	Mr. President, I will be scrupulously on time. I would like to reply to the honourable Members who have made inquiries and asked questions on this matter and on our draft resolution. Mrs Rita Rato began by telling her that the PSD actually assumes that these measures do not bring great novelty, that these measures are already known, have reports and are consensual measures. thus also results in our perplexity, not realizing why these measures have not been implemented. from then on also the presentation of this draft resolution, to reinforce that the Government effectively has a work to do, not only by signing protocols, by conducting studies and by setting up technical committees to study subjects that are already studied. I also say to you about the means that it is good to hear the CFP and the Greens talk about the means, because in fact, in order to do these policies you need to have the means. But now the ‘ball is on your side’, you have approved this State budget and, therefore, we believe that the CFP goes to the government to force more investment in these matters. I would also like to say to Mrs Sandra Cunha that the PSD has always told, in this matter, that it could be necessary, it could be justified, as we think it is justified, to make adjustments to the law. What is not necessary is to make substantive changes to the law. I believe that we are all in agreement at all, too. The law projects that the PSD presents have exactly to do with this, with adjustments to the law, in order to give a sign that there are improvements that can be made, there are improvements that can be introduced into the system and it is already. Meanwhile, the Government, Mrs Deputies — and we still don't understand why — is setting up technical committees to study subjects that are already being studied. Then, and just to end, I would like to say that this consensus which is generated here — and I will even finish — in Parliament, on this matter, is useful for us to work on this more, but it cannot be used to bleach the government's inaction on this matter in the last three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u107	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u108	That's why you can't serve, Mrs. Susana Amador. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u109	I have noted that you have not fulfilled your commitment, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u111	We move on to the third point of our agenda, which consists of the debate of draft resolutions Nos 2001 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on working conditions in contact centres ( callcenters ), 1948 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — By regulation of work in call center, 1949 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and regulation of the profession of contact centres operator, strengthening of rest, rest, hygiene, health and safety at work and 1985 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Establishment and regulation of the profession of call center operator. Before giving the floor to the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, in the person of Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Mr. Members of whom 3 minutes is 3 minutes, and tolerance is 15 or 20 seconds, it's not 1 minute, so I'll cut the word from there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u113	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After about three weeks of the current debate on this subject, which was scheduled by the Socialist Party, today we are again debating proposals around the call centers sector. It is always good when the House reinforces debates and projects for greater justice in labour relations, seeking solutions that improve the lives of those who work. Today, the Socialist Party reaffirms its willingness to regulate this profession. And we want to do it, as it is said in popular language, without putting the car in front of the oxen. We want to know better to act, study to then intervene, not do everything at the same time, to avoid everything being the same. Today, the call centers employ more than 80 000 workers in many different sectors of activity, but we know very little about them. We don't know much about them, so we want answers to several questions related to this sector. The work, in most call centers, is exercised uninterruptedly for long periods of time on each journey, with implications in duration and quality of breaks, but which goes far beyond that, with questions of segmentation, repetitive tasks, specialization, execution of tasks with little autonomy, which cause uniformization, psychological wear, great physical and emotional demands. To all this add several complaints and reports of recourse to much temporary work and the existence of a wide range of low wages. For the Socialist Party it is very important to replace this model, where more profit corresponds to less salary, by a model with more justice and more redistribution. We want to change this reality and, to change it, we need to know where these bad practices are, identify them, isolate them and create conditions for them to be eliminated. To this end, it is essential to know the space where these activities are exercised and the labor relations established, the conditions of hygiene and safety, ergonomics, the respect for rest standards, the stability of times, among many other dimensions. That is what we want with this draft resolution. The PS proposes that the Government, through the Office of Strategy and Planning of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, prepare a study on the reality of calls centers in Portugal, which focuses on the dimensions relevant to the physical and psychological well-being of workers. We therefore take a very important step forward so that we will soon be able to regulate the profession, based on reliable social and labor radiography, involving as much consensus as possible with the Assembly, the Government and the social partners. It is in response to these workers that the Socialist Party gives the start for the regulation of the sector in Portugal, with the study to which the Government is obliged, if, as we hope, our project can be approved today. We cannot accept that bad practices lack a whole sector and we do not admit that it remains a kind of black side of relations in Portugal, because that is not fair, that is not worthy and that certainly does not correspond to the view of competitiveness in which we believe that our economy should be based. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u115	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, thank you very much for the example of restraint that he has given us. [[All right!]] [[P. Alexandre Quintanilha (St. Alexandre Quintanilla) Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u116	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Since the beginning of this year, this is the third parliamentary debate on the problems faced by workers and call center workers, or contact centres, which shows the importance of the topic. This sector of activity has existed in our country for at least two decades, and it is undeniable that its evolution has been side by side with the evolution of temporary work enterprises and the provision of services or outsourcing. From then on, as a model of work, this means that it is a sector that has grown together with precarious practices, and, precisely because it is a sector that will have more than 80 000 workers, it deserves to be looked at carefully, both by the work model that it advocates, as well as by the conditions of a work that is demanding, physically and psychologically. We believe that all professions deserve dignity and that is why action must be taken on those who have not yet been regulated. Mrs. Members, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, there are well-identified problems by workers and trade unions: working hours that are not compatible with the required pace; too short breaks; climate that enhances moral harassment, in the name of competitiveness and goals; diseases of the hearing or respiratory forum and ergonomic and psychological diseases, where burnout has a high incidence. The Left Block has made a way for several years to combat precariousness. And contrary to what some have tried to say in these debates, we have not found that there are calls centers, or that they have work problems, one or two years ago, as we have not submitted proposals only now. Don't! We have made progress since the first time we have put the debate on precariousness in this House, as well as several proposals — some of which are already under discussion in the field of specialty — concerning the fight against precariousness, with influence in this sector. But for this sector, we are presenting a project that has important proposals. Firstly, because an introspective national action enables the identification of places where the law is not being respected and the regularization of situations, allowing, on the other hand, to have national information, to create plans of intervention accordingly. Secondly, because it is too obvious today for the various actors in the sector, that there is a problem of a lack of regulation. And this lack of regulation protects more than 80 000 workers and workers, whether in health and health at work, whether in working hours that do not combine with the penosity of the profession. Just go to two or three countries to realize that — in Brazil or Italy, for example — it is forbidden to work more than six hours a day in this profession, having compulsory fixed breaks, which does not happen in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to regulate the profession in contact center, because it is urgent to provide answers to the problems that many and many have lived in our country for decades. There are academic studies on the problems identified—in Lisbon, in Coimbra, for example—and international studies, there are reports and denunciations of trade unions and workers and we therefore believe that it is not true that it is not a known reality. There is a lack of regulation, which is proposed today, such as supervision to enable the fulfilment of essential labour rights. We will not fail to respond to our responsibility and move forward in this matter for workers and workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u118	Mrs Isabel Pires, thank you very much for keeping within the limits of tolerance as regards intervention time. Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u119	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Today we are again discussing matters relating to the creation and regulation of the profession of call center operator. I would like to begin by saying, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, that it is not true that you know little. In fact, about this sector you know a lot and what you know is not a good thing,....
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u120	Now, exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u121	...and you've known each other for years. What we know is that the call centers sector was a test tube for subcontracting and for the removal of collective hiring to workers who respond to permanent needs. It is not true that little is known and it is not true that there has not been a request by the workers' representative organisations for the intervention of the Working Conditions Authority to be better known and to fight against the exploitation of these workers. This is a sector marked by precariousness, subcontracting, national minimum wage. in it there are about 80 000 workers, in this country, responding to economic groups that add up their profits, but who survive with the national minimum wage and with highly qualified functions and work. I would therefore also like to say that, in our understanding, when we discuss the creation and regulation of the profession, there must be consistency with the increase in wages, the fight against precariousness and the defense of collective bargaining. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, allow me also to tell you in this debate, I believe, it is not worth addressing the PSD and CDS but, rather, the PS — that creating and regulating the profession should aim, firstly, to value wages and combat precariousness. There are sectors where, today, in our country, the profession is not yet created, it is possible to value wages. I'm going to give you two examples: the Call Centers of Loyalty and the Call Centers of EDP. There is collective bargaining here. What prevents, today, the application of collective bargaining,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u122	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u123	... the increase in wages of these workers, i.e. applying the business agreement of each of these companies? Oh, my God! It's the lack of will of employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u125	That's all it's got to do with it! It is not because there is currently no profession which does not apply to collective bargaining, it is because the employer does not want to continue to have workers who guarantee permanent functions of the economic groups but who gain the national minimum wage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u127	... have inhuman working hours and do not have working conditions, for example, at the level of personal equipment, which are transmissible and therefore are not personal work equipment. That is why Mr President — making an effort to comply with the times, because we understand that there are several issues today in the debate — what we mean is that the CFP here will be to fight for the creation and regulation of the profession, with always as a perspective the fight against precariousness, the increase of wages, the 35 hours of work per week for all workers, because this is a condition for the development of the country and the protection of the lives of these workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u128	Mrs Rita Rato, thank you very much for the time being fulfilled. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Call centres, or contact centres, have become a privileged means of contact between companies and citizens, and even the situations in which this contact is made exclusively by telephone. This new reality has led, on the one hand, to the closure of many physical shops and the consequent dismissal of workers and, on the other, to a significant increase of workers in contact centres. However, this profession is not regulated in Portugal, which ultimately promotes a set of problems and injustices. According to the available data, there are estimated to be around 100 000 operators in the contact centres in Portugal. It happens that the vast majority of these workers are hired by service providers or temporary workers, even though there is a permanent need for these professionals. This is the mechanism used by companies to pay low wages and deny a set of rights, deresponsibility of their obligations vis-à-vis their workers. Indeed, there are operators who work in these contact centres and spend years meeting the needs of companies, but jumping from company to company without having an effective and direct link with the company to whom they provide essential work and whose needs are, in fact, permanent. In its vast majority, these workers earn very low wages, while companies have more and more profits. This means that, along with the growth of these companies and their significant profits, the precariousness and instability of workers are increased, not being recognized many of their rights. It is also important to clarify that this is not a temporary professional activity, nor is it limited to young people looking for the first job, because there are people who do their entire career in these contact centres without ever achieving the minimum of desired stability. In addition, these workers usually deal with intense work rhythms, lack of breaks, shiftwork, which is coupled with pressure from companies to ensure that the results are met without taking into account the needs and rights of these workers. In view of this framework, the Greens want to make their contribution through this draft resolution, as a way to address the problems faced by workers in this sector. It is true that there is a long way to go, but it is also true that we must begin, as soon as possible, to respond to the problems currently affecting thousands of workers in the contact centres. From the perspective of the Greens, the answer is not to do studies but to advance in order to ensure the realization of labour rights, the enhancement of the profession and, above all, the balance between professional life and the family life of these workers. This is the purpose of the legislative initiative which the Greens bring to the debate today. [[Congrats from PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. José Luís Ferreira. Better it would be difficult, had 3 minutes to intervene and spent exactly 3 minutes. Mr. José Luís Ferreira's speech concludes the presentations of the draft resolutions. For an intervention, Mr Álvaro Batista of the Democratic Social Party has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is more a debate motivated by the heavy consciousness of the PS and the radical left, PS that never assumes radical responsibilities and left that also do not want any compromises, only wants to continue to scramble and promise what it cannot do. Heavy left consciousness, because having promised to reduce working precariousness did exactly the opposite. Today there are almost 900 000 precarious workers in Portugal, more than 73 000 in 2011 when the troika arrived in our country. With the left-wing government, one in four Portuguese workers is precarious. Heavy consciousness because today there are more than 80 000 workers, almost all of them precarious, who complain about unhealthy working conditions, complain about lack of supervision, complain that the current government has done nothing for them. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Workers and trade unions are complaining of lack of ergonomics, moral harassment, unhealthy facilities, respiratory problems, hearing difficulties, high rates of depression, problems in vision and vocal cords. They complain, but the PS and the radical left never wanted to know. Heavy left consciousness because they've been doing « market ears » for years. Now, instead of forcing the Government to fulfil its obligations, force it to regulate the profession, monitor and punish abuses, the PS and the radical left want to deceive the workers, deceive them with promises of study and advice to the Ministry of Labour. Not being the problems of now, the government has had all the time, since the beginning of the legislature, to study the problems of these workers. If they didn't, it was because they didn't want to. And because they did not, they should explain to the 80 000 workers of the call centers. Don't shoot them with idleness and promises, because tired of talking they walk. Mrs. Members of the Left, can explain to the unions and to the workers why precariousness has increased with your government, in the call centers and everything else?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u132	But isn't he capable of a proper intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u133	Can you explain to these workers why only now have they remembered them? Tell them now, because by ruling almost four years ago, they haven't done anything for these 80 000 workers yet, and now they prefer to do theaters instead of solving the problems of these people. Today everyone knows that draft resolutions are useless if the government does not want to comply with them. [[Protests by Members Isabel Pires, BE, and Rita Rato, from the PCP.]] Everyone knows that when the left ones don't know or don't want to solve the problems they promise to study them. Why do they prefer to push with the belly the problems of these 80 000 workers instead of trying to solve them seriously? We all know that the left is like this, "a lot of sheep and a little grape", but we all know that these workers deserve better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u134	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP, who is a member of the Bureau, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u135	After this statement, there is no other remedy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to start by saying that the CDS considers that the work at call center has its own penosity and that nowadays it is a relevant activity, no longer being just a part-time work done by workers to pass on to those who have it as their main activity. Now, we are discussing today, again, the work at call center and we want to stress, from now on, that we are doing it at the end of the legislature. PS, Left Block, PCP and The Greens present various draft resolutions addressed to the Government, but PS, Left Block, PCP and The Greens are exactly the same parties that support this government that is in office and that is now approaching the end of the legislature. What happens during this debate? PS, Left Block, PCP and The Greens accuse each other of nothing they have done throughout the legislature. For it is true, nothing has been done throughout the legislature in favor of the workers of the call center and responsibility is all yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u137	Hello, hello, hello...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u138	The PS says « study! ; the Left Block says'regulation'! ; the PCP says "to study, to inspect and to regulate! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they had an obligation to have done throughout this legislation. You know that this is the government that supports these budgets that have supported them and that they have resolved nothing until today, so you are responsible because you are the one who governs them. To conclude my speech, I cannot but recall times when the PS had a prime minister who opened call centers. It was the times of Eng Socrates, and what did Mr Eng Socrates say at the time when he opened call centers? I was saying, for example, that starting the political year to inaugurate the call center is at least a silly I went back. What I find, with the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the silly season is no longer during the holidays or after the holidays, the silly season is even long before the holidays, it is the time when you lived throughout this legislature. Therefore, you are responsible, you should have solved this problem long ago and crying crocodile tears at this point in the legislature is not the same: crying crocodile tears. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro. Nothing like a member of the Bureau to set an example. To close the debate, you now have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say a few final words in this debate. With regard to the interventions of the PSD and the CDS, in fact there is much more to be added because the contribution is zero: it is zero in the proposals that do not exist, and it is zero in the contribution to the debate, which is indeed very similar to the contribution to other debates. at least this justice is done, because regardless of the topic under discussion, when it comes to work, the contribution of the PSD and CDS is more or less the same and does not add much to the discussions we are having. at least they have consistency in this lack of debate, which we record. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When it was necessary to combat harassment at work, which also covers the workers of the call centers, you did not follow. When it was necessary to increase the minimum wage of €95 during this legislature, you said that it would increase unemployment. When it was necessary to combat precariousness, particularly with PREVPAP, ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Bonds in Public Administration ), you voted against. When it was necessary to increase and strengthen the subsidiary responsibility of workers affected by temporary work enterprises, you not only voted against as they said « see there, the law will be unconstitutional ». Therefore, you have not gone to talk about this and have no future to add to the proposals we are discussing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to consensus, which I believe exists in those who really want to work on this subject, I believe that we need to deliver this study to the Office of Studies and Planning of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. We have the perception that there are many problems in this sector: how people work, what they receive, what kind of contracts they have, such as their working environment, what problems and diseases result from their activity, how precarious they are. We have an idea, we know that there are bad conditions — we all have this perception — but we need to know, with rigour, what we are discussing so that we can, also strictly, regulate and not take a step longer than the leg, so that then this work we want and we must do is not undone, in a future that we hope is distant. In fact, there is not even any collective contract in the sector. It is important that it be dynamized in preferential matters to be treated in collective bargaining and that is the path that the Socialist Party wants to make, that is the contribution we make, responding to the genuine expectations that workers place in the solutions that we can present in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u141	We now move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 1088 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates and regulates the career of health assistant technician and 1122 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Approves the letter for public participation in health and the terms of its disclosure, implementation and evaluation. To introduce them, I will give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira, but before that, he asked the parliamentary groups to register because we have only the registration of Mrs Teresa Caeiro. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block, throughout this legislature, has presented numerous proposals to strengthen the National Health Service. Today we make no exception to this rule and therefore we present two more bills in this regard. In the Left Block we have always said, and we reiterate today, that the best National Health Service is done with careers that value its professionals and that the best National Health Service is done for users, especially if it is done with users. And that is what we are bringing to discussion on these two projects. The first bill creates the career of health assistant technician. We speak of 25 000 professionals in the National Health Service who are not entitled to a specific career, professionals who are fundamental to the functioning of primary health care, hospital care. For example, without them there would be no operating blocks, without them there would be no care for the internment users, but they continue without a career that recognizes this importance and what we propose is that the specific functions of these health assistants be recognized in a specific career. Its specialized functions shall be recognised and discharged in a special career. The second project we bring the debate is a bill that creates the letter for participation in health. We often say, or we have rightly heard that users should be the center of the National Health Service, should be the center of the health system. But this statement cannot be just a chavão, a slogan that, after many times, is treated with paternalism in the National Health Service itself, must be passed on to practice. We have therefore adopted the proposal that has been made by several tens of user and patient associations, which have already addressed a petition to the Assembly of the Republic and which propose, and indeed, that there be an incentive for users to participate in the definition of health policies, in particular, to participate in the definition of national plans and priority programmes, in the management of health units and in the assessment of health quality. We can no longer agree and therefore present this bill, with a view to a more humanized National Health Service, where users are agents of change and are encouraged by the State to be these same agents of change and to create a National Health Service, that is, that has users at the center of the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the two bills we bring. We now have a debate in front of us, but what we want is a National Health Service with more professionals, done for users and, above all, with users. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Moisés Ferreira. Two bills presented in 3 minutes is truly remarkable. Mrs Teresa Caeiro from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u144	Mr President, the same challenge is called upon to discuss these two initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u145	And the Vice President of the Bureau for a majority of reasons. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to welcome the Left Block for these initiatives. We had the opportunity to mention here last January, about a petition and a draft NAP law on the same matter, which the CDS recognizes the relevance of health care assistants in providing health care to users. These professionals deal, daily, with thousands of users and their professionalism and humanity in the care they provide are undoubtedly decisive. We understand that the claim to regulate this profession is not only of high relevance but also of basic justice. But the government has not listened to these demands and, as evidenced by that, are the various manifestations and strikes of these health professionals to which we have been watching. Health care assistants have been unjustified over the years and continue without a properly regulated career. We also remember that we are talking about health professionals who, every day, integrated into teams, deal with thousands of users. These professionals are essential to the proper functioning of health units, whether they are hospitals, either in primary health care, or in continuous or palliative care. In all types of care, the functions they perform, in the teams of health professionals that integrate, are crucial and should not be negatively discriminated against, which is, in fact, what has happened. Health care technicians perform their duties with great wear and tear, since their fair expectations have not been met. In addition, in order to respond to needs, with the passage to 35 hours of weekly work, they should have been hired, according to the Independent Health Techniques Union, plus 3,500 professionals, which did not happen. Regarding the bill that the Left Block here brings us, they rise, as had happened with the PAN project, some doubts about form. in this sense, we understand that it also lacks to be worked and perfected at the site of speciality. And we repeat that we believe that a process of public discussion will be essential, because it can be crucial for the final outcome of this legislative process. As for the other bill also submitted by the Left Block, concerning the letter for public participation in health, which was also discussed here last February, concerning a petition on the same subject, the CDS also maintains its position and reiterates what has already been said here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u147	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President. We understand that this is a matter of great relevance and relevance. Public participation is, in our view, decisive and, for this, it is essential to bet and invest in literature in health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u149	Madam Member, don't make me take your word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u150	We will have the opportunity, I hope, to discuss this proposal in the field of specialty, even because the draft health-based law that the CDS has already presented has seen a lot about these matters, which, by the way, have not been contemplated in the initiatives that the Left Block presents today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u151	Mrs. Deputy, 3 minutes is 3 minutes, it's not 4 minutes. Mrs Carla Cruz from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Two projects are under discussion today, one related to the creation of the career of health assistant technicians and another on the charter for public participation in health. On the first one, we began to recognize the enormous importance of the work of medical action assistants for the provision of quality and safety health care to SNS users. Despite this importance, these workers do not have a career, although they claim it and fight for it for several years, claim we greet and accompany. On the creation of careers, the CFP considers that this is a discussion that must be held at the centre of collective bargaining between workers'representatives and the government. It can and should be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, but we reaffirm once again that it cannot be dispensed - on the contrary, it is required - to be done in collective bargaining. We recognize the importance of careers in Public Administration and National Health Service. In fact, it was the careers that allowed the progress and developments of the National Health Service itself, and the CFP has already delivered to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution that recommends to the Government the replacement, creation and enhancement of the careers of the Public Administration. With regard to the initiative for the approval of the charter for public participation in health, the CFP cannot follow it, insofar as it would involve the end of the activity of a very significant and expressive number of user commissions of the National Health Service and public services, which over the years have developed such a relevant role in defending users' rights and also their participation in these public services. The CFP values the intervention and participation of populations, users and patients. In fact, this principle is well shaped in our draft basic health law. in this initiative, we propose participation in the advisory bodies of health care providers of the National Health Service; on the contrary, the initiative now in institutionalized the participation and thereby creates obstacles to the free participation and involvement of users. As we have already said, reality shows that user committees have played a very important role in defending health rights and the National Health Service. That is the way that must be pursued, that is the path that the CFP will continue to defend. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs Carla Cruz, also for your restraint in the use of time. You have the floor now, Mr. Miguel Santos, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diplomas we discussed, both of the Left Block initiative, concern one, the right of citizens to participate in the implementation of health policies and, another, on the regulation of the career of health assistant technicians. I shall begin by referring to the first draft law, which seeks to approve a letter for public participation in health. The Left Block proposes to encourage the public participation of citizens in decisions within the health sector. To this end, the draft law sets out a set of guidelines that participatory health processes should respect, as well as the forms of operationalization of such participation. The PSD has always defended the strengthening of the participation of people and the community in the definition, monitoring and evaluation of health policies, as well as in the planning and control of the functioning of services. We consider it essential that citizens can participate in the defence of their rights and interests with the health services and the Ministry of Health itself. To this end, the PSD considers that the intervention of the representative associations of people with disease should be particularly supported. This vision is, in fact, enshrined in the draft health-based law that the PSD presented at the beginning of this year. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, that is why we believe that the various initiatives aimed at changing the Health Bases Act should be in this privileged legislative instrument that ensure the models and ways of deepening the participation of citizens. The second diploma, the bill that creates and regulates the technical career of health assistants, emerges following the discussion at the beginning of this year, a petition and a bill on the same matter. As I said at the time, this is not a new problem. It is a problem that was created in 2008 when the then Government of the Socialist Party decided to end the career of medical action assistants to integrate them — in our view, wrongly — into the general career of operational assistants. And I am wrong to say because the functions of health assistants could not, and still cannot be regarded as common to the general careers of operational assistants, since they are specific and differentiated. In fact, if the Socialist Party, at the time, created the problem to these professionals of the National Health Service – still not known why – has lost the opportunity to correct it throughout four budgets of the State which approved, as the Left Block, within the framework of the political and government agreements that have been maintained with the Socialist Party, since the beginning of the legislature. We will now see whether the PS will finally assume its responsibilities or insist on supporting the government against the legitimate interests of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u155	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u156	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to the Left Block, I would say that with this diploma, yes, it intends to alleviate its political responsibility, now, after three and a half years, past four budgets and to bring it closer together, coincidentally, to the elections that take place this year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u157	Mrs Catarina Marcelino of the Socialist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are appreciating two diplomas that are of a different nature and, therefore, I would like to start by talking about the diploma that establishes the letter for public participation in health. I would like to point out that the Socialist Party follows the content of this letter, which, in fact, comes from a petition which has already been discussed and from which I was the rapporteur. It makes all the sense to have more participation by citizens. However, we do not follow the timing of this proposal. We believe that this proposal should be discussed after the adoption of the basic health law, because citizens are part of the pillars of the proposals, i.e. they are at the heart of the discussion. Therefore, a diploma of this nature, in our understanding, should be discussed after the adoption of the basic health law. However, we will not impede this discussion and the approval of the diploma and we will be available to, as a specialist, if the diploma is approved, participate and contribute to that same discussion, because whoever is sick, who is a user, citizens have, in fact, a fundamental role for our health system, especially our National Health Service, to be a quality service for citizens and citizens. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the Socialist Party has already presented a draft resolution on this subject, which has not been discussed here today, but it will, of course, have it, and we will have another debate on this subject, beyond the day on which we will discuss the petition and the day on which this bill is being debated. As regards the question of the special career as a health assistant, in our view, the proposal is not sufficiently substantiated, so that we can follow the regulation of a special career. However, I would like to say here that we have the greatest respect for the people who provide this essential service in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u159	With no further requests for intervention, you have the floor to close the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In proposing the proposal, on the draft law of the Left Block for the creation of the career of health assistant technician, Mrs. Catarina Marcelino said that it is not properly substantiated, but the reality and demands of the workers—now operational assistants who should already be health assistants—is that they effectively substantiate this proposal. It is that they say, well, that they have specific, specialized functions, that they are health professionals, but then they have a career that devalues them for not recognizing all this. So what we do is we recognize all this. As to whether this proposal should already have been made and negotiated between the representatives of these workers and the Government, we believe that it should already have been. The problem is that the Government has not done so for almost four years, and therefore we believe that, not doing so by the Government, the Assembly of the Republic can do so. So we present this bill. In fact, we have already presented this proposal, during the discussion of the State Budget for 2019, but it was plummeted, precisely because the PS voted against and the PSD and CDS-PP abstained. So the Left Block wanted this to be from the State Budget, but the PSD and the CDS-PP did not make this proposal viable. That is why we believe that now in the Assembly of the Republic is the time to hold this debate. On the bill that establishes the charter for public participation in health, having more participatory users, to define health policies, to manage health institutions, in advisory bodies of health institutions of the National Health Service, to monitor and evaluate the provision of health care, is an improvement of health care and in nothing comes into shock with user commissions, which may have other functions besides these, and very well. Finally, Mr President, I give a very concrete example. At the beginning of this week, I had the opportunity to be in a patient manifestation in a health extension in São João de Areias. Now, these users have manifested themselves, well, to improve the health conditions of that extension of health. But they could also be in an ACES management body ( Health Center Grouping ) to do so. It was better if they were in a management body and were also on the street demanding improvement of health conditions. That is what we want with this letter for public participation in health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u161	We now move on to the joint debate of Resolution Projects Nos 1995 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reject the amendment of the European Union decision-making process in the field of tax policy by unanimity for qualified majority, and 2005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the reservation of national sovereignty in tax policy within the European Union's construction process. To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The unanimity rule is reserved, in the European Treaties, for the most vital areas, for matters most important to the Member States. Foreign affairs, defence and tax creation — the heart of sovereignty functions — can only be decided at European level with the express support of all Member States. To abandon the unanimity rule regarding tax creation is a mistake, a colossal error, that the CDS does not support and does not accept. The European Commission communication of January this year, which opens the door to the end of the unanimity rule in the creation of taxes, should soon have been rejected by Portugal. on the contrary, the Government of the Socialist Party, on the back of Parliament, on the back of the Portuguese, supported and valued this idea, which is disastrous for the defence of Portugal's interests. Portugal cannot and should not voluntarily abdicate the ability to use the tax system to be more competitive, to attract more investment, to set up and create jobs or to decide how the remuneration of such employment should be done. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That would be, I repeat, a colossal mistake. Admit that other States, contrary to the sovereign will of the nation, could create taxes on, for example, the sea, which would penalize us much more than others, is unacceptable! So today we present this project. Modern parliaments have been created to limit the capacity of governments to decide on their own tax creation — not to taxes without representation! This is a matter where Parliament, on behalf of the people and on behalf of the people, is sovereign, and is the only sovereign. That is why Parliament can and must now end this approach.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u164	The European Union is facing a crisis today and faces many challenges. Of course, what we have to do is we do not devote ourselves to creating more taxes, especially in a country that already has the tax burden at the highest level. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A final political note to say that the government's position in this process is unacceptable. To go to Brussels to link the Portuguese State to a decision which is up to Parliament is on the back of Parliament to decide on an interest which is a vital interest of the Portuguese nation. This lack of respect for Parliament can and should end today with the adoption of the draft resolutions which are currently under discussion. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u165	Thank you very much for your restraint, Mr Pedro Mota Soares. To present the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Duarte Marques now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD took the initiative to present a draft resolution on this issue to ensure that the agreement signed by the PSD and the Socialist Party was fulfilled. The PSD and the Socialist Party signed an agreement that had two major objectives. The first was to ensure that Portugal, in the negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework, maintained exactly the same amounts as the PT2020. Now, former Minister Pedro Marques, now a candidate of the Socialist Party in the European elections, began to violate this agreement when he failed to maintain the value of the previous framework. The worst minister who passed through this government began to violate that agreement. And now we have the question of European rates on financial transactions, on the digital market and on environmental issues. The other clause that the PSD set up as a red line in this agreement was that no tax could be created by the Member States without unanimity in the Council and the ECOFIN, thus protecting national sovereignty. This is also being violated when Mário Centeno, when this government decided to support the initiative of Moscow — perhaps in appreciation for the various blessings it has given in the speech to this Government, contrary to reports from the European Commission — and to say yes, that it agreed with the end of unanimity in the creation of new taxes and taxes. The PSD believes that it is essential to guarantee national sovereignty, when creating fees, or when attempting to impose on States or to articulate with all Member States the creation of new rates and regulation in certain sectors. It is also important to say here that they do not try to create failures on these measures, because what was in the past on the table and what is intended or intended to do with the regulation of these sectors was exactly the same as with VAT, for example. Member States shall create a tax and shall allocate part of that tax to the Community budget. Therefore, there are no European taxes and the PSD is against the creation of European taxes. Any fee or tax must be raised by the Member States, by this Assembly of the Republic and by our Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u168	Thank you very much for your restraint, Mr Duarte Marques. Mr Duarte Marques is in the air of those who look at the grid of the times and think, after all, I still had 28 seconds to talk! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u169	In saving is the win!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u170	That's exactly what I was afraid of. You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The topic that CDS and PSD bring today is important. It deals with the decision-making method in the European process, in particular the unanimity rule in certain areas of European decision-making. First of all, we must say that, as we have always said, the European project is wounded by inequalities and ways of boosting these inequalities since its inception. And as we have moved forward in the construction of treaties and operating methods, this has been confirmed times and times without account. The directory Europe has always been a threat and too often a reality. And, in fact, the principle of unanimity is a safeguard for countries to defend themselves from these same directories. It is true — and we have said so many times — that the principle of unanimity has served to protect tax dumping from Luxembourg or the Netherlands, but we also know how important it can be in protecting peoples and countries. We disagree with the decision taken by the Government with the declaration that it supported the proposal to amend the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u172	Amending the Treaty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u173	... in Article 113. the, exactly on tax matters, because it is on the table, with this amendment proposal, the end of the need for unanimity for any decision on tax matters. It is — we think it is what is on the table — the beginning of the end of the principle of unanimity, which protects our country, opening, even more, the door to a Europe of the strongest. In fact, these issues depend more on the relationship of political forces than anything else, since it can both serve to tax large capital and can be used to allow tax dumping. And the fact is that, with the political guidelines which have been directed at European institutions in recent times, and since its beginning, the absence of the unanimity rule would have served to deepen an even greater path to major capital, harming economies, including the Portuguese economy. It is true that they could even have the opposite argument: it can allow to tax more properly giants such as Google or Facebook. We believe that this argument is naive as it denotes a lack of political analysis of the real relationship of political forces in the European Union. So if we want and think that these economic giants must be taxed, we can do so, in fact, we have a great opportunity to do so, which is to approve the Left Block proposal on this matter. The decision to let the major capitals of our country escape is also due to their successive governments and to an idea, which still prevails, that, in the name of competition and competitiveness, it is worth everything, including excluding these companies from paying taxes. The principle of unanimity, as we have already said in our speech, has served to protect our country in many matters and we do not agree with the decision taken by the Government and the signal given by the Government on this matter, without consulting the Assembly of the Republic now, which has not been heard or found on this issue, as in fact on others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u175	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u176	We therefore believe that this is not the right way to discuss these issues. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u177	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the thousands of students who are out there expressing themselves in the fight against climate change. On this subject, I should like to say the following: I would like to welcome these initiatives, although it disagrees with them, because this is a debate that should have been held in this House in time. As you know, when the European Economic Community was created, there were six countries that were part of it and the rule was unanimity on all matters. This gave a veto to any country on any subject. in these 30 years, we are moving, in terms of the European Union, to decision-making by qualified majority, which obviously means that no veto is given to any country. Taxation is — and I am glad it is! — the central issue in parliamentary democracies. The English say « in taxation without representation», and quite rightly! My position is not the position of the CDS and PSD, because maintaining the veto right on all taxation matters means an obstacle to European Union progress in such important matters as a financial transaction tax or the harmonisation of the IRC tax base, nor is it its opposite, which would open a « Pandora's box » for all issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u179	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u180	For certain tax matters, and with this, I conclude, Mr President, we must maintain unanimity, for other matters, we must have a qualified majority, so that we can progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u181	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not indifferent whether or not the principle of unanimity is applied in the European Union's decisions on tax matters, but cannot guarantee the defence of that principle. You need to go further,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u183	Is it necessary to put an end to the European Union? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u184	... it is necessary to repeal the rules of the Treaties which transfer the power of decision on tax policy to the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u186	... that, within the meaning of the CFP, are a sovereign and exclusive competence of the Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u188	It was exactly to defend the full fiscal sovereignty that we presented yesterday a draft resolution. The ability to create, modify or extinguish taxes and to determine its nature, scope and limits is a central element of a State's sovereignty. Abdicating, even if partially, this capacity, by transferring it to supranational entities, compromises the sovereignty of the State, limits its political, economic and social choices and conditions the definition of policies for the distribution of national wealth. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the process of capitalist integration of the European Union, shaped to the interests of the major economic and financial groups, important sovereign powers of the Member States have been gradually transferred to institutions of the European Union. Tax competences have not escaped this process. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the single market, the European Union has assumed powers in indirect taxation matters. The fact that these powers are currently limited should not mislead the fact that there is a clear intention to extend both within and in the form of deliberation. The European Commission's immediate objective seems to be to replace, in the Council's deliberations on tax matters, the requirement of unanimity by a qualified majority. The CFP understands that the principle of unanimity should not be called into question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u190	This principle, which places States on an equal footing in the decision-making process, constitutes an indispensable instrument for defending national interests against the supranational imposition of guidelines and decisions contrary to those interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u192	After losing its currency sovereignty with the euro, after seeing strongly limited budgetary sovereignty with the range of rules and constraints associated with the Stability and Growth Pact and the budgetary treaty, after losing the control and supervision power of the banking system with the European Union, it is now intended to usurp national sovereignty also at the fiscal level. Portugal must not only alienate new shares of sovereignty as it must recover those which have been alienated from the past, in particular those relating to tax matters. The proposal of the CDS and PSD, proposing the maintenance of the principle of unanimity, falls short of what is necessary. It is necessary to go further, as proposed by the CFP by revoking all the rules which conferring powers on the European Union in tax matters in the Treaties. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the discipline of the CFP, for the rigour of the CFP. Mrs Margarida Marques now speaks for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and CDS projects that are under discussion today, allow me to say so, are pure manipulation. The CDS serves its campaign flag. He went from Euroscétic to Euroscalm — the expression is not mine! — but we do not know if, once again, it will be repositioned on European issues. As for the PSD, it wants this space not only to be disputed by the CDS. So here we are debating two draft resolutions which are a non-problem. I would like to explain: the limit of the unanimity rule comes from the hearing of Commissioner Pierre Moscovici, in the European Parliament, in 2014. I do not remember the CDS or the PSD expressed any contradiction in the hearing of Commissioner Moscovici, in 2014. Perhaps Mr Nuno Melo did not have the opportunity to accompany this debate in the European Parliament. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u195	He's not going there much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u196	The issue of European taxes is a false issue. The first aspect to be clarified is that there are simply no European taxes. There can neither be nor exist, since the European Union has no power to charge taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u197	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u198	See the Treaty establishing the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u199	It is the States that charge taxes and that will not change, it has never been discussed nor is it in question. Just see Article 113. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u200	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u201	So, see Article 113. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u202	Coordination and harmonisation do not imply the existence of European taxes or taxes. The right has purposely confused several questions because you do not want to debate what is really in issue. For this reason, it confuses two very different questions. The first question relates to the financing of the multiannual financial framework and the PSD defended precisely this: strengthening the financing of the multiannual financial framework. The second question is the amendment of the unanimity rule in tax policy. The Commission proposes to amend the unanimity rule to combat fraud and tax evasion and this intention is supported by the Socialists.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u203	Fight fraud and tax evasion and everything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u204	It is not merely a national issue, it has a clearly European dimension. It aims to enable Member States to exercise more effectively the sovereignty they already share, so that common challenges can be tackled more quickly. Reaffirm : there is no Union hypothesis to charge taxes or impose a specific fee on Portugal. In practice, the position taken by the PSD and the CDS means blocking more exchanges of information to combat fraud and tax evasion and thus generating a lead in national budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u205	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u206	I'm done now, Mr. President. When some can run away from taxes—and those that run away are often the giants of the digital—who does they end up paying? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u207	Who is it? Who is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u208	That is the question we have to answer. The CDS even talks about imposing a tax on the Portuguese sea! They are indeed close to despair. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u209	Mr. Carlos César, I will not be able to make the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group the same praise I gave to the CFP recently. [[PS laughter.]] Mr Duarte Marques now speaks for one speech. I would ask you to pay attention to time, please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u210	Mr President, this debate may even be enlightening. It is because if we started this debate with doubts as to how draft resolutions would be voted, we realized that the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party agree that, at least, it is important to ensure that unanimity rule is maintained.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u211	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u212	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u213	So we count on your vote for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u214	But that's not enough, you need to go further!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u215	There's something here that bothers the Socialist Party, but it's been bothering you for several years. The Socialist Party is against the PSD and is against the PSD resolution project, because the PSD resolution project wants to maintain the agreement with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u216	No, no! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u217	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u218	Therefore, as they are used to not doing what they promise, they are against the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u219	PS signature is not worth anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u220	One thing is to want to confuse people and say, on the one hand, that European taxes are being created, which is not true and is a fallacy; another thing is to want to justify these people, when trying to approve new taxes without being by all the Member States at the same time, in each of their countries, which is what will happen if we end unanimity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u221	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u222	If it is important to regulate these markets and create these rates, it is fundamental and essential to maintain the autonomy and sovereignty of States so that they can be applied by each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u223	All right! [[PS MP Margarida Marques protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u224	And who's gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u225	It makes no sense and it is ridiculous that some States apply these rates and others do not. More important than taxes is national sovereignty...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u226	Let's actually believe in Carochinha's history!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u227	... and, above all, maintain seriousness in a debate that is relevant, constructive and fundamental to the future of Europe. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u228	To close the debate, I now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is being very useful and very interesting. In fact, we are talking about the "heart" of the sovereignty functions that the Portuguese Parliament has. That is why I cannot but make a note about the intervention of the Socialist Party. Mrs Margarida Marques, Member of the Portuguese Parliament, is concerned about what Mr Nuno Melo is doing. I can reply very easily: immediately following the European Commission communication dated January 2019, Mr Nuno Melo was the only Member who asked Commissioner Pierre Moscovici — a socialist, by the way — why the Commission was proposing this and then told him very clearly that Portugal should not accept this position. The honourable Member is very concerned about what Mr Nuno Melo does. You should worry a little more about what your Minister of Finance, Mário Centeno, Minister of the Government of Portugal, is doing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u230	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u231	... because more than 50 days have been called to Parliament to discuss this matter and for more than 50 days it has fled to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u232	Well, well! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u233	On the back of the Portuguese, Brussels will bind the Portuguese State on a matter which is sovereign and on which the national Parliament is sovereign. [[PS MP Margarida Marques protests.]] With that, Mrs Margarida Marques is not worried! Mrs Margarida Marques, who should be here representing her voters, representing the Portuguese people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u234	And he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u235	And I am! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u236	... is not concerned about the fact that the Minister of Finance of Portugal goes to Brussels on the back of Parliament to link the position of the Portuguese State without giving the national Parliament a chance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u237	Cavaco no, we don't give "Cavaco" to anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u238	We cannot accept this, we do not accept it, and we now have the possibility of blocking, from now on, this presidency of the Portuguese Government and this presence of the European Commission, curiously, of a socialist Government and a socialist Commissioner. The way to stop is to approve these draft resolutions. If we adopt these draft resolutions today, at European level, this pilgrimage idea that we can turn our decision against the will of the Member States to die and die now! This is the challenge that is now on the table, in the vote that we shall be voting on immediately. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u239	With this intervention we close the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 1995 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 2005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ). We turn to the joint assessment, in general, of the Bills Nos. 824 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of the application of the sustainability factor to long-term involuntary unemployment pensions and provides for the revision of special schemes and measures in anticipation of the age of access to old age pensions, 825 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the sustainability factor and restores the legal age of reform to 65 years, 826 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of penalties to workers who have already acceded to early retirement, 827 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Appreciates long-term contributions, ensuring access to pension without penalties and regardless of age, to workers who complete 40 years of discounts, 911 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Eliminates the sustainability factor and replaces the legal age of reform at age 65, 916 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Remove the penalties applied to workers who have already entered the early retirement pension, 1136 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Resets the retirement age of 65 years and establishes the customized reduction of the retirement age for workers with 40 years of discounts or more( 11 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 187 / 2007 of 10 May ), 1137 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates an extraordinary complement to compensate pensioners with long careers contributing to the cuts resulting from the application of the sustainability factor between 2014 and 2019 and 1138 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Elimination of the sustainability factor of pensions required under special schemes for access to disability and old age pensions, the early retirement scheme, in particular in long-term involuntary unemployment and the replacement of the legal retirement age in 65 years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, although the presentations of the initiatives have not yet been made, the Bureau has already registered for a request for clarification. I would therefore like to clarify that requests for clarification will only be made after all legislative initiatives have been submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u240	All of them? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u241	Yes, sir, all of you! Therefore, you will speak the PCP, you will speak the Greens Ecological Party, you will speak the Left Block and only then will the requests for clarification be made. To present the four PCP bills, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has brought to discussion in this House, at different times, the need for an effective appreciation of the long-contributory careers and responses to whom, as a result of having been pushed into situations of unemployment and early reforms, lives a reality of major penalties in their reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u243	Mrs. Diana Ferreira, excuse me for interrupting you. I was asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down and keep quiet. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u244	Mr President, we note as positive the steps taken for the long-term contribution careers, which is inseparable from the insistence of the CFP on this issue over the years. If it is a fact that this path begins means the recognition of an important right, especially if we consider the prospects that are open to valuing long careers, it is also true that it is important to go further, to advance in the rights of those who have worked a whole life and to bring justice to tens of thousands of workers who continue to wait for answers to their lives. It is in this sense that the CFP submits these proposals. We propose that anyone who has 40 years of social security discounts may access the reform without penalties, regardless of age. Those who worked for 40 years have the right and the legitimate expectation that they will be able to reform without being penalized, especially workers who, having begun to work and to discount very early, have lost their childhood and youth and have limited their right to reform, a worthy reform, which effectively translates the much they have already given to the country, the much that they have contributed to social security. Discounts of 40 years are a life of work in the lives of workers and not rarely lived in situations of great physical wear, of great emotional wear, in situations of great exploitation, with intense working rhythms and with low wages. It is not fair, it is not acceptable that, after 40 years of work, someone will be forced to work to survive until he reaches the legal age of retirement and often to work to the limit of his forces. Valuing a 40-year contribution career is a matter of respect for the contribution that thousands of workers have already made to the country, to the production of wealth and to the public social security system. With this initiative, the social protection rights due to workers are valued not only but also the social security contribution regime, its backbone. We do not forget, in our proposals, the answers that need to be given to workers in a long-term unemployment situation. We propose to eliminate the sustainability factor in these situations, as well as to review the arrangements and measures to access the early retirement for long-term unemployed in order to ensure better access conditions for these workers. We also propose measures to correct injustices for those who, driven to early reforms, today have deep penalties in their pensions, much due to the hand of the PSD and the CDS, which have worsened and aggravated access to early retirement for thousands of workers. We must not forget that the reformers in this situation have suffered brutal cuts, with cuts reaching more than 50 % of the value of their reform, often meaning the impoverishment and degradation of the living conditions of these now reformed workers. We therefore advocate that the penalties to which you are in this situation, in particular those who meet the criteria in the light of the most current legislation and also those who have reached or have reached the normal age of access to old age pensions, should be eliminated. We also propose the complete repeal of the sustainability factor, an instrument with which we have never agreed, and the replacement of the legal age of reform in the 65 years. We understand that increasing the average life expectancy is a civilizational progress and cannot be used to amplify rights, such as the right to reform, and to a decent reform. What matters, yes, is to ensure that more years of life are accompanied by better living conditions. These steps are crucial to a path of conquest of rights, progress and social justice. The CFP, with these proposals, leaves its contribution for this path to be fulfilled. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u245	at this moment, Mrs Diana Ferreira, already two Mrs. Members have signed up to ask for clarification, but, as I said, they will only be formulated and answered at the end of the presentation of all initiatives. You now have the floor to present the two initiatives of the Greens Ecological Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all recognize, the sustainability factor has significantly reduced the value of all pensions and caused a progressive breakdown in their rate of replacement, which has been accentuated as the average life expectancy has increased and has led to a constant degradation of the quality of life of the reformers. It should be recalled that this regime, which in fact has always set up extreme injustice, was further aggravated by the previous government, the PSD/CDS government, when it decided to amend the reference year for its calculation. In addition, the former Government has also increased the normal age of access to old age pensions, which is no longer a fixed age to vary annually, depending on the evolution of the average life expectancy. Thus, this new scheme, in addition to increasing the retirement age, further penalised early retirement pensions, i.e. all pensions allocated before the age of access to the pension fixed in its year. In fact, over the years many have been offensives against the incomes and rights of pensioners and pensioners, and the application of this sustainability factor is a clear example of this attack and these injustices. The Greens consider that the elimination of the penalty for early pensions due to the application of the sustainability factor is of the most fundamental justice, which leads to the fact that pensioners receive an increasingly low pension. Regarding the legal age of reform, the Greens insist that it should be re-established in the age of 65, not only because workers should be able to be sure about the age at which they will be able to reform but also because the increase in life expectancy, being a civilizational advance, cannot be used as a penalty factor for workers. But, in this discussion, we cannot leave out the serious problem of workers who have entered the labour market very early, many in hard activities. Indeed, the age at which many of these workers began to work would correspond today to cases of child labour. Now, when these workers stop working for their own free will, as long as they are 40 years old, they must be able to do so without any penalty. For this reason, Les Verdes presents a bill aimed at eliminating the sustainability factor and at the same time restoring the legal age of reform in the age of 65. The second legislative initiative presented by the Greens in turn aims to remove penalties applied to workers who have already entered the early retirement pension. We do so not only for a matter of justice but also as a way to prevent the impoverishment and deterioration of the living conditions of families that these penalties continue to potentiate. Today is also the day when we will see who is on the side of the pensioners and pensioners and who is not. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u247	To present the three legislative initiatives of your party, Mr. José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As regards pensions, we do not all agree. The right has always used the excuse and pretext of sustainability to apply the cuts it defends, simulating that the problems that have been placed in the balance of social security are due to the values of pensions, which, in fact, in Portugal, continue to be extremely low in general, and not to the following factors: unemployment, which means less contributions and more charges, and which, moreover, has increased substantially in the period of the PSD/CDS government; precariousness and informalization of work, which expels people from the employment contract and therefore also from social protection and contribution; and immigration, which has led hundreds of thousands of people with creative, productive potential, wealth production outside the country. As has been demonstrated in recent years, ensuring the balance and sustainability of social security is to recover income, increase pensions, combat precariousness and create jobs. Between the left bank and the Socialist Party there is also a difference in the way we look at work and social security and this difference is not, it has never been and is false that it is in concern and commitment to sustainability, because concern and commitment to the sustainability of social security are common and fully shared objectives. The difference is in knowing what we do with the increase in productivity, with the greatest capacity to produce wealth, with the added value brought by technological innovation and with the increase of the average life expectancy. For the Block, it doesn't make sense that, more than a century after the struggle for 40 hours of work, we still have so many people working more than 40 hours a week. More than that: technological innovations in recent decades should make us work less and not more, they should revert to workers and time to live and not become more work. That is why we should precisely reduce working hours, distribute jobs, and not the other way around. The reduction of working time is done by three ways: firstly, the weekly reduction of working time, the struggle for 35 hours, also in the private sector; secondly, the annual reduction of working time, the struggle for, for example, the return of the three working days that the PSD and the CDS have stolen, when they have been removed from the law; and finally, the struggle for reduced working time in life, and this is the issue of the retirement age. Increasing the age of reform every year and associating heavy penalties with those who want to retire after decades of work is a way of prolonging working time, transforming the increase of the average life expectancy into punishment and condemnation, rather than being a good news that would allow us more time to live and, above all, more time to live with quality of life. This is, to a large extent, the debate we have here today. We know that we have significant differences with the Socialist Party, which does not accept the reduction of working time in the private sector, that does not accept the return of holidays or the return to the retirement age, which existed, curiously, in the legislation of Vieira da Silva, maintaining and having so far maintained the annual increase and the sustainability factor, which comes from the PSD and the CDS. These relevant differences did not prevent us from taking concrete steps in this legislation that diminished injustices, and these steps are recognized. In addition to the annual increase in the value of pensions, this majority was able to create a scheme to allow workers with long careers to have access to reform without penalty, provided they began to discount before age 16 and are 46 years of discounts; it was able to recognize the rapid wear for workers on the farm and stone; and it was able to establish the end of the sustainability factor for workers who, at age 60, are already 40 years of discounts. However, the measures that the Block brings here today allow us to go further. They are measures to establish justice, enforceable, sustainable, that protect people and social security. I focus on four of these measures: first of all, the end of the sustainability cut. When the sustainability cut was created, this was the counterpart to the fact that the retirement age was fixed. From the time the retirement age increases each year, the cut-off of sustainability is a double penalty in pensions without any justification. We therefore want to put an end to this 15% cut in pensions. The government has announced that it agrees with this idea, so there is no reason for it not to move forward. Secondly, the end of this cut is even more obvious for the people to whom the law already recognizes the rapid wear. It is that these people, such as the workers of the prairies or mines, when they reform themselves with the age that the law gives them, which is a different age from the general age of the reform, are not asking for early retirement, are reforming themselves with the age that the law recognizes them. Applying a 15 % cut to these workers does not make sense and perverts the justice we wanted to do to them in the State budget. Thirdly, the customised reduction of the retirement age. We propose a year to reduce the retirement age for each year above 40 years of discounts. We ended up with all the penalties for those who have 46 or more years of discounts, but between the 40 and the 46 there is no consideration about the contribution career. Finally, the creation of an extraordinary complement to compensate long-term pensioners who were unable to reform themselves under the fairest rules that this majority has adopted in this Parliament. It is a question of the most basic fairness, because there are people who began to discount before the age of 16, who were already 46 years of discounts when they retired and who today would not have any penalties, but, because they were reformed before 2016, they suffer every month and until the end of their lives with the penalties of the PSD and the CDS. This is a huge injustice and needs to be corrected. They are enforceable, sustainable, fair measures for people who have worked their entire lives and who deserve the recognition and attention of this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u249	We then proceed to requests for clarification, which are addressed only to Mrs Diana Ferreira. Two Members have signed up to request clarification, and the honourable Member has informed the Bureau that she will answer together. The first request for clarification lies with Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I welcome the CFP on this agenda. Mrs Diana Ferreira, the CFP presents a very different set of proposals. Some subjects concern specific situations both in Portugal and in certain Portuguese, such as long-term unemployed. Portugal's specific situations have to do with, for example, all the people who reformed when there was a worsening, which was, however, remote, and the objective is to treat these situations in an equitable and equal manner. I would like to tell you, Mrs Deputies, in relation to these two situations, that the CFP has already presented these proposals and was not with other votes but with the PS votes that these proposals have been cast. Therefore, the first question I ask you, Mrs Deputies, has to do with the following: I believe that the Portuguese have some difficulty in realizing that all the parties that are proposing on this agenda, who put forward proposals and say that they have, in their mind, in their political purpose, first of all, the most vulnerable ones, who, in fact, want to protect with these diplomas, when it comes to negotiating with a partner of coalition, to negotiate the approval of budgets, one behind the other, leave these, who are the most vulnerable and in need, at the door of negotiations. And the first question is this: how do you view the Portuguese, explaining that there is no exercise of hypocrisy that seems absolutely incomprehensible here? Oh, my God! With regard to the other proposals which the honourable Member has put forward, in particular the elimination of the sustainability factor for those who have 40 years of work, we know these proposals, they are not new, and they are not new in Europe. I heard a few phrases of his speech that could be said in Italian, for example, by a great politician who certainly knows, and I do not know whether he recognizes it as great or not, but at least in electoral terms, he must know it. I mean Salvini, who, in his electoral programme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u251	That's your family!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u252	... says exactly the same phrases that the honourable Member here said, like, for example, the reintroduction of the old-age pension for those who have been working for 40 years, regardless of age. I have also heard this phrase from the honourable Member. I hear the same sentence in French for who plays the National Front, which says, in its programme, that I have here: to set the retirement age in 60 years and 40 years old. Finally, these are phrases that I also hear from the proponents of this debate. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] Mrs Deputy, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens Ecology Party have the partners they want and with whom they identify.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u253	That's all your family!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u254	But the question is very simple: there, like here, they do not respond to the crucial problems of financing social security, there, as here, they ignore, or they seem to have no answer on this matter, and I would like to hear Mrs. Eurostat data were published today, according to which Portugal is the sixth country with the highest social expenditure in pensions. Average life expectancy is expected to reach 90 years in 2030. Currently, taking into account 65 years of age, the difference is 20 years, i.e., who reformed to 65 years of age has a pension expectation of 20 years, almost half of the time he worked. Therefore, the honourable Member cannot submit the proposals which she submits, without being accused of being populist, if she does not have a consistent, credible and convincing answer on how to finance this situation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u255	It's simple! It's just answering!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u256	Since the parliamentary groups have maximum time allocated to the debate, I will allow the parliamentary groups to use the time they want, either in requests for clarification or in the answers. To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u257	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u258	I am sorry, Mrs De Clercq, but, before proceeding, I wanted to know if it would be too much to ask the honourable Members again. Ladies and gentlemen, sit down. [[Pause.]] You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, the CFP brings here a number of initiatives that take place with regard to reform measures, including the elimination of the sustainability factor and the replacement of the age of reform over the age of 65. In this respect, the PSD begins by recalling that the discussion of these matters is in everything related to the sustainability of social security, that is, the ability of social security to pay these pensions or not. And it is, in fact, to ensure that this payment is made both to those currently receiving a pension, to those currently in the asset and to those who intend to retire later.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u261	We cannot allow the system, which is already fragile, to be destroyed and we cannot be promising today to remove everything tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u263	These matters are of great sensitivity and should be discussed, as I said, taking into account the financial capacity of social security. That is why it surprises us that, three months ago, with the approval of the State budget, the honourable Members. Members have not guarded the adoption of these measures with your Government and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u264	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u265	They were exactly these measures that were presented in the State Budget and you were unable to have the support of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u267	... not even the government. [[PSD applause.]] That's why, sirs. Members, this debate is not a hypocrisy on the part of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u268	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u269	It is because the CFP, despite its lack of support for the adoption of these measures, has made it possible for the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u270	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u271	Therefore, it is important that you explain to the Portuguese how you saw these measures be plunged by the Socialist Party and still it was you who made the State Budget viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u272	Well remembered! All right! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u273	I must still remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who were not the PSD that made it impossible to eliminate the sustainability factor for those who were reformed in advance. It wasn't PSD! It was the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u274	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u275	Therefore, all this time is an attempt by the CFP now that we are almost in elections, to distance ourselves from the Government and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u276	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u277	But do not distance themselves, because the truth, and I remind you again, is that in the State budget, at the time these initiatives were discussed, you complied with your lead, because if you had not conformed to the State budget, you had not voted in favour of the State budget. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] So tell the Portuguese, seriously, that is what you are asking — that three months ago these measures have seen and accepted, but now, to win vows, you are here trying to deceive them and create their expectations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u278	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u279	Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the CDS, and Mrs Clara Marques Mendes for the PSD. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, I would like to begin by saying that if the extreme right in Europe is taking advantage of just causes and demands of workers and populations, it is also because parties such as their did not respond to the problems of populations and workers... [[PCP applause.]] ...and opened the door for the extreme right to effectively appropriate these causes that are fair, of problems that are real and that require solutions. But these solutions do not pass through the CDS and do not pass through the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u280	Neither do they pass through the PCP, which approved the State Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u281	... as it is more than demonstrated, moreover, demonstrated even by the governance of the gentlemen for four years, with special responsibilities in gross pension cuts and also in the sustainability of social security itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u282	Talk to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u283	The gentlemen. Members spoke both of the sustainability of social security. For we are talking about the social security and the single growth that social security contributions have had in recent years, namely the replacement of rights and incomes that have existed and that have actually contributed to a significant increase in social security contributions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u284	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u285	... as you also have the opportunity to know, but they deliberately ignore, in a fallacious way, to pollute this same debate. On the issue of sustainability, such a concern expressed by both parties, I would also like to recall here that the CFP presented concrete proposals that the PSD and the CDS had the opportunity to approve, but that they did not actually approve. This, without prejudice to substantive measures, which go through job creation, wage recovery and combating unemployment and precariousness, for which neither the PSD nor the CDS are willing to contribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u286	It's the PS! O PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u287	Your partner!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u288	With regard to the positioning of the PS itself, which has contributed and also has responsibilities in governance so that this effective way of combating the precariousness and a more significant valuation of wages itself, is not done, the question here is whether they are going to help those who are the most fragile, those who are the most vulnerable, to which the CDS here referred, or are going to give their hand to the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u289	You gave your hand to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u290	...to lead the proposals of the PCP. It is also in the hands of the PSD and the CDS to approve these proposals or not. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u291	We are now moving to the stage of the speeches in the debate. To this end, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes has the floor first by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If each of us here acted as a mere spectator, this could have been almost a playful moment. Confirms the dictionary that play is what serves to have fun or to give pleasure. [[PCP protests.]] We have been here as mere spectators and not this House where the Portuguese wait and demand that the solutions to their problems be found, and watch the behavior that the parties that support this government are showing up in the vote race in the election year, would be almost fun. But no! We are not mere spectators and we are going to watch, more or less unbelievers, the lack of seriousness, even without a great surprise factor. Today, here we are in the debate, where PCP, Bloc and The Greens rip their clothes off to talk about injustices in the public pension system and submit proposals for — they say! — to remedy these unacceptable injustices. If these were broken off from the opposition, we could even take seriously the kindness of the desire to repair these injustices. But these, precisely these, are the proposals that these parties put forward in the State budget and which were plunged by the Socialist Party, the party that needs the PCP, the Bloc and the Green Party for its government to exist! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Perhaps it would be worth the attention of these parties to some voters, but let us agree that even a less attentive Portuguese will ask: if they have, as it is said, the knife and cheese in their hands, why did they not then require the approval of these proposals in the State budget? Oh, my God! It's the election year, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, time is running!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u293	Now! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u294	So let's speak frankly. The CFP, the Bloc and the Greens have for the first time to combine what they say is their priorities with the truth of governance. So far, we watched an exercise of who could say everything without ever having to answer for anything, as if money multiplied by the intensity of intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u296	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u297	But resources are multiplied only by a clear and frank vision for a country that produces wealth in a sustained way rather than a contextual way, in a genuine strategy for competitiveness, the only one that can generate wealth that is distributed. We agree — we have already heard — that this vision of wealth creation is obviously not common to all of us here. And as much as they speak in productivity, after all, the majority that governs us is the same as they understand — and say so! — things like « entrepreneurs are wolves in sheep's skin» or « we must lose the shame of going to the Portuguese pocket». You have imposed your rule on the country — rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u298	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u299	You want to talk about the public pension system? Do you want to repair injustice? They respond to the injustices of your government or, at least, demand that the Socialist Party respond. You want to talk about the public pension system? They spend half a week claiming that there is no sustainability problem in the social security system — our public pension system — which, they say, does not risk bankruptcy, and the other half saying that, after all, it could risk bankruptcy, but no longer risk because everything now runs very well. So let us look at the following: the Government says in the consolidated accounts of social security that the Social Security Stabilisation Fund — the financial cushion, the system security network — has no money to ensure even the two years that the Basics Act determines. But it also says in the Social Security Sustainability Report of the State Budget for 2018 : the negative balances of the social security system — to such bankruptcy as is our invention — will be from the second half of the 2020. It's the government that says it! Let us be nice in this issue of the last half of the 2020 : it ends in 2030. This whole period of validity is based on an economy that was growing but is now slowing down, and a favourable environment that does not depend on the merely optimistic desires of this government. Have the courage to say, because the Portuguese have the right to know what kind of choice they are participating in. They don't do it and they lead those who try to do it! The PSD proposed an independent assessment of the sustainability of social security, the parties of this government have dropped. They don't do it and they lead those who try to do it! The PSD proposed an independent assessment of the sustainability of social security and the parties of this government have dropped. The PSD proposed a parliamentary committee with all of us, to discuss the social security system and debate and the parties of this government have dropped. The PSD proposed the obligation to include a report analysing the impact of the State budgets and measures of this government, and of all governments, in the perspective of intergenerational equity and the parties of this government have plunged into it. Let us put it so that they cannot pretend that they do not understand: Rosa is 52 years old and has been discounted for more than 30 years—for sure, you know Rosa. In the scenario of this government's unrealistic optimism, Rosa was reformed in 2033. Your own term of validity says that Rosa, 52 years old and more than 30 discounts, will no longer have a pension for pension reform of the pension system, will have failed three years earlier. What do the parties of this government have to tell Rosa? Oh, my God! Let us be fair: the answers are not the same of all the parties of this majority. PCP, Bloc and The Greens will say that they are also working for Rosa and that they even want to increase the reforms and anticipate the retirement age. The Rosa will ask them: how much will these gifts accelerate a failure of the system already planned for 2030? Now, justice is done, the PS will not respond to it. In fact, it will not respond to Rosa, it will continue with its head in the sand, there will be no electorate to remember that the cuts in pensions and social benefits—that continue to cry—were decided by the Socialist Party that enrolled them as compulsory in the Memorandum in which he asked for money to fill the bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] If they cannot recognize the work of others, they do not deceive the Portuguese—it is written, it is to read the Memorandum. The remedies that the Socialist Party is making to the social security system to claim retirement increases are always at the expense of everyone and without clear accounts, because what it will do today to harm Rosa's pension will only feel in her pension in the future, and the votes are for now. But there is a common point: everyone, PCP, Block, The Greens and the Socialist Party will say that no one will be without reform. It was only agreed that, for this purpose, they would resort to the taxes of the Portuguese, in addition to what the Portuguese already contribute to social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u300	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u301	I will finish, Mr. President. And that is also why the public pension system, with clarity and transparency, needs to be reformed. In the PSD, we do not know only the Roses and we make politics for everyone, because that is our function. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The public pension system requires a very delicate balance because it is the guarantee of income to whom it ceases to work. We'll never admit that some Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u302	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u303	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we will never admit that some Portuguese resign and say, as they say, "I am already counting on not reform". The playful exercises do not serve politics. They have the courage to govern in fact and seek solutions to the problem of Portuguese rather than voters. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u304	Eight minutes of nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u305	Mrs. Member, you exceeded your time in almost 1 minute and you had 7 minutes to intervene. You have the floor, representing the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, Mrs Catarina Marcelino.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The OECD report last December states that a well-developed pension system needs automatic mechanisms that align benefits with economic and demographic reality and that systems should be financially sustainable. The same report states on Portugal that the 2007 social security reform has made it possible to ensure sustainability, in particular in adjusting the benefits of pensions to economic and demographic development. That is why we cannot, under any circumstances, make minor changes which call into question the sustainability and balance of the system. One of the fundamental conditions for this system to be self-sustainable is that it does not depend on extraordinary transfers from the State budget and, once again, it is essential that the decisions taken be weighted and accountable. And this is what this government is doing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is good to remember here that in 2013 and 2014 there was a need to make extraordinary transfers from the State budget to social security of more than EUR 2000 million in order to compensate for the deficit. As in 2018, in 2019 there was neither the need for transfers from the State budget to social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And there will not be because in recent years the economy has grown, employment has increased and contributions have accompanied this same growth. But there will also be no reason why the Government and this parliamentary majority have assumed, from the beginning of their mandate, the political and strategic objective of creating the conditions for the rebalancing of social security accounts, in particular by diversifying their sources of financing. I would like to highlight the additional IMI (municipal property tax) and the provision of IRC (counsel income tax) revenue to social security. In recent years, expenditure is lower than revenue, ensuring the sustainability and increasing strengthening of social protection. The speech of Mrs Joana Barata Lopes is enlightening. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u307	It was a great intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u308	The right seeks to weaken confidence in the system and to do so by staging fear that there will be no money in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u309	You're the gentlemen who say so! It's your sustainability factor!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u310	We reconcile sustainability with the strengthening of social security and, Madam Member, we tell Rosa that in the future she will have a pension because there is a public service, there is a public social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also good to remember that the social security sustainability reports annexed to the State budget have worsened forecasts between 2012 and 2015 regarding the balance of the Social Security Financial Stability Fund. If, in 2012, the forecasts maintained the Fund's positive balance until the 2050s, in 2015, when that government took possession, the same forecasts would only ensure the balance of the Fund's accounts by 2020. This is the truth! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This sudden decline of 30 years cannot be attributed only to unemployment and emigration of the years of the crisis. There were political options that contributed to this degradation in order to open the way to the discourse of the need to think about adopting private pension systems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must be vigilant in ensuring that the sustainability of the system is guaranteed. We need to be vigilant so that we do not give the right argument to defend a private security system. Today, the demographic and economic situation is very different from the last decades of the last century. To recover rules at that time is to question the system, it is to open the door to the threat of privatization, as we have seen by the PSD/CDS government. It is essential that the parties defending public social security assess each proposal that presents the risks to the financial weakening of the system. Sometimes kind measures for certain groups of workers and pensioners become negative for all beneficiaries of the social security contribution scheme. And if the system fails, it will fail for everyone! For example, the estimated impact on the elimination of the sustainability factor in the calculation of early retirement to individuals with at least 60 years of age and 40 years of career can be seen. Only to support this measure was it necessary to increase the TSU (unique social rate) by about 7 percentage points. And I ask, who would pay?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u311	False! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u312	It is worth noting that the possibility of anticipation of reforms was frozen by the previous Government and that, when the current Government took possession of and defrosted these pensions, it encountered a situation that constituted gross penalties due to the changes made by the previous Government in the calculation of the sustainability factor that produced a cutting effect of 14 %, which was added to the age penalty. This is the truth, Mrs PSD's deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u313	What truth? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u314	That's what happened, Mrs. Clara Marques Mendes. Thus, in the face of this imbalance, the government has suspended the process so that it can create a fair and sustainable system, which is in force, which allows workers in unemployment at the age of 57, after exhausting all unemployment and social unemployment allowances, to start retirement at 62 years without penalty, with intermediate situations with differentiated penalties from the cases of unemployed at 52 years and a minimum of 22 years of discounts. This is because it is so far that it is possible to go responsibly without jeopardizing the system. Some of the diplomas discussed here today are asking for more. But it is no longer possible, under the penalty of mortgageting our future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been the mark of the Socialist Government to return income to people and, at the same time, to ensure the balance of public finances. Since the first hour it has been a priority for the Government to recover the income available from families, workers and pensioners. The choice of this Government is from the outset to strengthen the sustainability of social security and, at the same time, social protection. Because this has been the case since 2015 with this government: the replacement of the reference values of the CSI (a supportive complement for the elderly) and the extension of access to early retirement pensioners since 2014, thus responding to the injuries of the Mota Soares ; the automatic updating of the pensions of the contribution and non-contributory schemes based on the calculation formula that was suspended, ensuring the increase of 3, 6 million pensions, of which in the last two years 80 % were increases above inflation; the increase of the IAS (indexing social support) ; the replacement of the reference values of the RSI (social income of insertion) ; the updating of the amounts of the family allowance and the replacement of the 4. the step; the creation in 2016 of an extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed with enlargement from 2018 ; the end of the 10% cut in unemployment allowance after 180 days of grant; the creation of the new contribution scheme for self-employed. The PS is, as it has always been, available to ensure the modernization and sustainability of the social security system, always with the involvement of the social partners, because the wider the consensus on the most defended public social security is the system. A discussion has to be conducted based on credible studies of the impact of the proposed measures in order not to prejudice the policies essential to the sustainability of the system, which is not reflected in the proposals presented today. The Government has complied with the provisions of the PS Electoral Programme and the Government's Programme, has diversified sources of social security financing and has alerted the future of the Social Security Financial Stability Fund. Our political objective will always be to defend a public system of universal, sustainable social security capable of responding to the social protection needs of all citizens and citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u315	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here is a story that tells a lot of the time we live. A little everywhere in Europe the actors change face, ideology and even country and language, but here, as in France or Italy, the story that is made could be entitled "How can you try to win electorate by deceiving voters? or « Populism has no geographical or ideological boundaries ». Yes, the proposals of the CFP, the Greens and the Left Block are not new, even unique in Europe. Marine Le Pen or Salvini are today some of the comrades of Catarina or Jerome. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not rhetorical, this is factual. Neither one of them answers such simple questions as this: how could it be possible, without tax or contribution, to implement the measures they propose? [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Those who advocate reform at the age of 65 have to say how it is possible to finance 20 years of reforms, which represents about half of the active life. The good news of longevity presents, at the same time, very great challenges not only to people and families, but also to the system and our way of life. And the truth is that no populist responds to another big challenge: the evolution of the demographic pyramid. More and more people are being received for those who are working and pension financing is sensitive and sensitive. You have to take care of your future. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] But in France, Italy or Portugal no populist wants to know this, because his focus is another: the electorate and the immediate response. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the proposals which the CFP, The Greens and the Left Block here bring us are not new, there is a fact that, despite everything, it is unique in Europe. Le Pen minds and illusions when he proposes what the PCP and the Block bring us, but only once. The CFP and the Left Block are two-fold liars: they propose what they know is not feasible, but they approve the government that rejects what they propose. The left gives the pirouettes you want, but, in the end, Portugal can well dispense its theatre. None of this is necessary for the future of Portugal! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u317	Thank you very much, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, for not exceeding time. For a second speech, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have listened carefully to Mrs Catarina Marcelino, so I would like to ask her again what the Socialist Party's position on some of these matters is. The cut in reform due to the sustainability factor was the counterpart created by the Socialist Party for the age of reform to be fixed. Moreover, with the model of the current Minister Vieira da Silva in another Government of the Socialist Party, the age of reform was 65 years old and that is why the sustainability factor was created. Let's talk about it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, explain to us, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, because, at a time when the age of reform increases every year, it is justified to keep the cut away from the sustainability factor. What's the argument? It makes no sense, in the light of the very model that the Socialist Party defended. Secondly, in the budget, we have adopted a measure to ensure that the workers of the prairie have the right to reform themselves earlier. These workers, when they are reformed at the age that the law recognizes them, are not requiring an early retirement pension, are retiring because they have reached the legal age of the reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u319	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u320	Why does a 15 % cut apply to pensions for these workers? Mrs Deputy, these are concrete issues that the workers liked to see answered and that unfortunately, according to your intervention, they will deserve the lead of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u321	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If people live longer and if science and technology allow them to produce less time, workers must retire early and not be forced to work until the end of their lives to enjoy their reform. This is the central finding that justifies the unacceptable solutions we have brought today to reduce the legal age of the reform to the age of 65 and to end the penalties for the reforms, proposals that the CFP brought here and which are just, possible and sustainable. It is necessary to reduce the legal age of the reform to the age of 65 so that people do not have to continue working until the end of their lives and do not have to be limited in their right to reform. It is necessary to reduce the legal age of the reform to 65 years so that there is, in fact, the right to reform within a period where it can still be enjoyed and under conditions where it can still be enjoyed, in particular in relation to the value of the pension. We therefore propose the end of the penalties for the reforms for whom you worked and discounted for 40 years. These 40 years of work, with their contributions to social security, are more than enough for society so that the worker can have access to reform — and access to full reform, without penalties. It is fair that those who worked for 40 years can retire, after having given their contribution, without penalizing their reform. And also because it is important for new generations, which thus make access to employment easier and, from a family point of view, more supportive, because older workers can retire at a time of their lives where they can make such a contribution. These proposals are also decisive in valuing the social security contribution system. If workers feel that their social security discounts give them the right to reform without penalties, of course they value the social security system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are sustainable proposals because they generate jobs, allow job creation. More: if they are associated with other proposals, such as the increase in wages, in particular the increase of the national minimum wage to € 650, which would allow an increase of EUR 260 million per year of social security contributions, it is more than evident that they are sustainable proposals. It is sufficient to look at the growth, which has no parallel, of social security contributions during these four years, achieved with measures to value wages and to value workers' rights. It is also important that, by creating a regime that will put an end to penalties, the same will not cease to be applied backwards. In other words, those who have already reformed themselves with penalties must also be covered by this regime. It is also important that the long-term unemployed are not double penalized: they are penalized because they have lost their jobs and again penalized in the value of their pensions. Penalties under the reform scheme for long-term unemployed must have an end. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after what we have heard, the big question is the following: who agrees with whom? Mr Anacoreta Correia, if the extreme right is taking advantage of just causes is because you open the door. Every time you deny the answer to a problem of workers and pensioners, such as those we are dealing with here, you are opening the door to the extreme right. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] If they do not want to open the door to the extreme right, they approve these proposals, they solve these problems of the workers and I assure you that the electoral programmes, which you have chosen for this debate, Salvini and Le Pen no longer have any expression whatsoever.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u323	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u324	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge remains. The PS, if you want to converge on the right side, that it converges with the CFP in the adoption of these proposals. With regard to the PSD and the CDS, we already know that they will agree with what is necessary to put the brake, to bring these fair proposals down. [[PSD protests.]] But this challenge that we do to the PS does not make it less responsible. Converge with the CFP so that these advances can be achieved so that these workers' rights are valued in this Legislation. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u325	After all, I'm giving my compliments to the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u326	Sometimes time must be exceeded, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u327	We move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which is from the general assessment of the Drafts of Law Nos 1026 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns the collection of samples of water and biofilms in situations of clustering or outbreak to environmental health technicians (first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ), 1068 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Allocation to environmental health technicians of public health units the collection of water samples in the context of environmental research in the identification of sources of contamination and dissemination of Legionella ( makes the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease ), 1077 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease, and 1084 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August, in order to confer on environmental health technicians competences for the collection of samples of water and biofilms in the field of epidemiological research ( first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ). To present the legislative initiative of the Green Party, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u329	Sir, excuse me for interrupting you. I wish I didn't have to repeat myself so often, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Please sit down. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The major environmental problems and, of course, climate change, but also water pollution or air pollution, have, as it is known, very significant negative impacts on human health, estimating that they contribute to the development of more than 100 diseases. As the law requires, it is up to environmental health technicians to detect, identify, analyze, prevent and correct these environmental risks. Thus, these professionals, integrated in public health units, perform environmental investigations with the aim of identifying sites that constitute possible sources of contamination and dissemination of Legionella. Moreover, the importance of the work of these professionals was clearly evident in the outbreaks in Vila Franca de Xira, in the Hospital de São Francisco Xavier and, more recently, in the Hospital CUF Discovered, situations in which the role of public health units was essential, as well as the intervention of environmental health technicians. It happens that Law No 52 / 2018 has established that, in cases of outbreak, the collection of water samples and, where justified, biofilms should be carried out by laboratories and only in the absence of those by environmental health technicians. In other words, environmental health technicians only intervene as an alternative, only in case of absence of laboratories, whether public or private. This situation, in the Greens' perspective, makes no sense, since these professionals should not be seen as a second option, because they are at the service of the State and are involved in the investigation process since the first step. And less sense makes if we take into account that all public health units in the country are equipped with environmental health technicians. In other words, the State's own resources are not the reasons why the State has to use external services, in particular private laboratories, and only in the absence of such services. This is a contradiction and a completely unnecessary expenditure of financial resources for the State, which is thus obliged to pay laboratories a service that could be carried out perfectly by state professionals. In the face of this situation, the Greens propose a change to the law in order to reverse the priorities, i.e. by putting environmental health technicians in the first line to collect water samples and only in the absence of a public response—only when and if public health units, eventually, do not have available or sufficient environmental health technicians—is that, then, there can be recourse to laboratories legally accredited for this purpose. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Greens follow up on the other initiatives that have also been put forward on this subject, even though the NAP proposal offers us reservations, since instead of attributing complementary nature to laboratories, it opts not to allow this alternative in the event of a lack of public response. We believe that, above all in this matter, it would be wise to make use of the precautionary principle. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u331	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings the discussion of a bill aimed at clarifying Law No. 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease. This Act is based on the initiative and proposal of the CFP. With this initiative we are discussing today, we clarify the Law by amending Article 10. the, in order to assign to environmental health technicians of local public health units the collection of water samples and biofilms. by assigning this competence to environmental health technicians, we are strengthening and valuing the work developed by the public health units of the National Health Service and its professionals. The amendment also provides that, in exceptional situations — I repeat, in exceptional situations — and in which the use of environmental health technicians is not possible, the collection of water samples and biofilm can be carried out using certified laboratories for this purpose. We reaffirm, once again, that it should be the environmental health technicians of the National Health Service that primarily do the collections of water samples and biofilm. This obviously requires a clear bet in the National Health Service in strengthening its human and material resources. This is the path that the PCP defends and which, in fact, was contemplated in Law No 52 / 2018. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this initiative, the CFP reinforces once again the allocation to the State of responsibility to ensure the improvement of energy performance and the quality of indoor and outdoor air of public or private buildings, as well as the role of regional and local public health units and also of the National Institute Ricardo Jorge. With this initiative, the CFP urges and calls on the Government to comply with Law No 52 / 2018, as regards the strengthening of human, financial, technical and material resources of national public health institutions, which are essential for the prevention and control of legionella bacteria and thus for the prevention of legionaires' disease. With this initiative that we are discussing today, the CFP reaffirms once again that it is possible to adopt measures to prevent the occurrence of legionaires' disease, as well as it is possible to control the environments susceptible to legionella development, and it must be the environmental health technicians of the public health units of the SNS to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u333	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mr André Silva now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No 52 / 2018 created a strategy for primary prevention and control of Legionella bacteria in all buildings and public access establishments, which will contribute to the prevention and control of the occurrence of isolated cases, clusters or outbreaks. However, despite the responsibility of research in cluster or outbreak situations if it is attributed to environmental health technicians integrated in public health units, with the latest change to the law, water samples can now also be collected by accredited laboratories. According to existing legislation, the entire research process is carried out by the public health unit, and environmental health technicians travel to the sites to identify the contamination points. Thus, there is no practical, technical or financial justification for laboratories to collect samples, since, in addition to adding costs to the State, the investigation itself may be called into question, since laboratory technicians may not be environmental health specialists. Our proposed amendment to the law seeks to avoid unnecessary increase in public expenditure, as well as to ensure that the Legionella outbreak investigation process is carried out with the greatest possible rigour, in order to ensure the correct detection, analysis, prevention and correction of the risk of contamination, thus promoting healthy and controlled sites.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. You've had a remarkable performance! To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot begin this intervention by taking into account that there is no demonstration and a climate student strike going on out there. Thousands of students, many of them here at our door, tell us that there is no planet B and that they do not accept that we continue to whistle on the side, inside, with respect to climate change. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Regarding the project presented this afternoon, I will say the following: Law No. 52 / 2018, which establishes the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease, has enabled the strengthening of preventive, corrective and research measures related to legionella outbreaks. The reintroduction of mandatory audits, which had been eliminated by the previous Government, constituted the resumption of protection and security of populations, in relation to the risks arising from the maintenance of networks, systems and equipment conducive to the proliferation and dissemination of Legionella. However, this law provides—wrongly—that, in cluster or outbreak situations, the collection of water samples and biofilms should be carried out by laboratories accredited for the purpose by the IPAC (English Institute of Accreditation) or, in case of absence, by environmental health technicians, health engineers or sample collection technicians certified for the purpose. We say it is necessary to reverse this order! Research into cluster or outbreak situations is the responsibility of the local health authority, in conjunction with the regional and national health authority and involving, where necessary, the collaboration of other public authorities on the subject. Therefore, finding the research already at the height of the health authorities makes every sense that the competence of the crops is attributed to technicians of the public health units and not to other entities. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to achieve this objective precisely and to safeguard that, if there is no response capacity at any given time by public authorities, this harvest may, however, only be carried out by accredited laboratories.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u337	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u338	Public health units have fully trained technicians who are able to perform these harvest tasks in the field of research, in this case environmental health technicians. In fact, these professionals of the National Health Service are already performing sampling functions of this type in different areas, so it is more than clear that they are also responding in these situations. It is this surgical amendment that we propose in this bill and that we will also follow in the bills under discussion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u339	For an intervention, Mrs Eurídice Pereira, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u340	Mr President, I welcome you, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, we are addressing four initiatives aimed at the first amendment to a law last August, which establishes the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease. These initiatives aim to change the action hierarchy with regard to the collection of samples of water and biofilms, in the context of mandatory environmental research, as part of epidemiological research, in cluster or outbreak situations. The research we are talking about aims to identify the sites that constitute possible sources of contamination and dissemination of Legionella. The law in force assigns the task of collecting water samples first to laboratories accredited for this purpose or, in the event of absence, to environmental health technicians, health engineers or sample harvesters equally certified by the same entity, i.e. by the Portuguese Institute of Accreditation. Three of the initiatives propose, essentially, exactly the same: the change in the order of appeal currently in force, i.e. the collection of water samples and biofilms must take place first, under the rise of environmental health technicians from public health units and, in view of the impossibility of these, by laboratories accredited by the IPAC. That's what you're in appreciation for. The NAP initiative does not follow this understanding, because it restricts, exclusively, environmental health technicians, the task referred to, what is presented, from our point of view, reducing and pointing to the failure to guarantee caution, if the law would adopt this wording. As a result of Law No 52 / 2018, whose amendment we are considering today, environmental research in cluster or exit situations of Legionella, whose responsibility is assigned to local health authorities, in conjunction with regional and national authorities, or other public entities whose intervention is justified. Given this concern of the public body, we have made a reassessment of the proposals and admit that there may be advantages in the new alternative order, in which the environmental health technicians of the public health units take the first line. After all, it is up to the public authorities to investigate the environment in terms already mentioned, and there are available public human resources for compliance with the procedures, that externalities should be assumed when there are no public response conditions. We can be faced with a resource profitability measure, without any disruption to the investigation process. That said, and despite the fact that the law is relatively recent, it is justified, in our view, to improve it in this particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u341	Mr Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, we are discussing here, very few months ago, about the last legislative amendment in this area, which dates only from 20 August last year — it is good to say — that is, it has less than one year, an amendment to the law. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not so much about the fact that we have changed the order and the three proposals, because they are the same, except for the NAP, which we will then talk about. This is the fact that we have been used to playing the legislative process. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are playing the legislative process because a working group has been done, but you did not want to hear anything, because of the speed with which we have to decide everything, to do everything without waiting for tomorrow. Yes, because they had the opportunity to make these changes all the more! No one heard from the working group. As much as I remember, when we went to talk about it, it was ultimately down, as we were used to, in fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u344	Don't let him argue, hear him! They didn't listen to these technicians at the right time, they didn't listen to the responsible entities, no one heard! All this because, at the time, I was interested, yes, to ride the media wave of questions about Legionella that had emerged, more or less at times, on television. That is the concern we have always been accustomed to! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Now, at the end of the legislature, the parties come to pretend that they had nothing to do with this, that they did not present their own proposals, when they were revoking everything that was done because it was all wrong, and also losing the opportunity to revoke this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u345	Let's not pretend, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u346	This article could have been changed at that time and the laws could have been allowed to take its course, because the situation of environmental health technicians was already at the time. It is not a new situation, it is just an attempt to show, now, a proof of life for the Socialist Party and to pretend that they are not part of the government where they always are. They didn't make the changes they negotiated, because you weren't interested in the date.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u347	You proposed, at the time, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u348	That's the point! Evidence of electoral life!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u349	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u350	Evidence of electoral life! Your apparent indignation is as good as a play that we live in, but that is not worth anything. What's worth is reality! And actually, they didn't do it when they should have done it, they don't do it because they don't listen, they're autistic about reality, technicians and all those in the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u351	It's hurting!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u352	Moreover, with your legislation they have been playing with Legionella, which is a very serious issue, they have been playing with the quality of the inner and outer air, which has already had the consequences. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It's not worth hurting. There is no indignation that erases that, even for a beautiful piece of theater! At the end of the Legislature, it is good to know that at last they seem to be thinking, but only to give proof of electoral life, because we are in the pre-campaign and we perceive.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u353	Looks like a parrot repeating the same speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u354	Nothing moves us against environmental health technicians. [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]] The PCP and the Block deal badly with freedom of expression. We know! The truth is, you have to listen to me, and you don't like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u355	Well, that's your low criteria!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u356	Having said this, I hope that this time, in the field of expertise, the initiative will be approved, that the entities will be heard and what they think about this, because the interests of the people and the Portuguese are what moves us.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u357	This reveals a lot of your criteria!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u358	this time, let them hear who is in the area and who knows, since, last time, they did not let us hear. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u359	To close the period of intervention, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to maintain the calm possible by this hour of the afternoon. [[Pause.]] Mr Álvaro Castello-White, when considering that he has conditions, please intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to welcome the thousands of young people who are now not only at the door of the Assembly of the Republic, but also in very diverse Portuguese cities, on the issue of climate change, demanding measures and leaving us all a message of hope for the future of the country in these matters. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u361	Mr President, coming into the matter that we are discussing at this time, I would like to say that the projects we are discussing here generally intend to introduce an amendment to Law No 52 / 2018, which is the law establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease, proposing to allocate the collection of water samples and biofilms in cluster or outbreak situations to environmental health technicians. Article 10. the law provides that, and I quote, «In a cluster or outbreak situation an environmental investigation, as part of the epidemiological investigation, should be carried out with the aim of identifying the sites that constitute possible sources of contamination and dissemination of legionella (...) » and that « The collection of water samples and, where justified, biofilms should be carried out by laboratories accredited to the effect by the IPAC, I. P., or in the absence of environmental health technicians, sanitary engineers or sample harvesters certified for the purpose by entity accredited by the IPAC, I. P.». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I remember this wording of Article 10. it was unanimously adopted last year in this House by the Committee on the Environment, and we have many doubts about the need for change only within a few months, in addition to the fact that we also have doubts about the existence of a number of health technicians sufficient to meet all needs. Obviously, we are aware of the very important contribution of environmental health technicians in this area and, for this reason, these professionals should integrate health units, both public and private, properly framed in teams. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind this House that it has been pending in the Health Committee for two years now, the Government's bill on public health. This proposal is in fact ill-elaborated and is quite controversial, but it seems to us that it is not a good principle to always be introducing minor legislative amendments, especially in areas as sensitive as this one, when it is not even possible to complete a legislative work which is in Parliament, on the proposal for a law, of the Government, on public health. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u362	To close the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to record the way the debate took place, even though we did not understand what the PSD position is. The CDS one, more or less, we understand, but the PSD didn't realize anything. [[PCP laughter.]] Mrs Emília Cerqueira says they are playing with the legislative process, which is playing with Legionella. Madam Member, I do not know who the recipients of this joke were, but I always tell you that it is always appropriate to correct the mistakes. It's always appropriate, it's always time to correct the mistakes. [[Protests by PSD Member Emilia Cerqueira.]] It was therefore good that this should be internalized because, in fact, it seems to me that the honourable Member knows when it is appropriate to make amendments to the law, whether it is still early or whether it is already late.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u364	Laws need stability!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u365	It's never too late to fix the mistakes. What is at stake is the fact that Law No 52 / 2018 refers to the intervention of environmental health technicians with regard to the collection of water.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u366	That was you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u367	And now it's our fault? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u368	This is, to all titles, incomprehensible, because they cannot be seen as a second option, not only because they are at the service of the State, but also because they are involved in the process from the beginning, from the first step, and because all public health units in the country are equipped with environmental health technicians. Therefore, having the State's own resources, they do not understand the reasons for using external services, particularly private services, and only then resort to public services to say, below, that there is no money for reforms or for civil servants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u369	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u370	What we propose is to make an investment so that, in the first line, environmental health technicians are involved and only after there is recourse to laboratories, particularly private laboratories recognized or accredited by the Portuguese Institute of Accreditation. As the Member of the Socialist Party says, we do not close the door to the possible need to use laboratories, but only in the second line, because we think that, in this matter - we are talking about health and the environment - we cannot facilitate and, by applying the precautionary principle here, we leave the door open for use to laboratories. We didn't close the door, but we put the labs in the right place, i.e. as a residual solution, as an alternative solution. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u371	We reached the end of the discussion, in general, of Lein.o 1026, 1068, 1077 and 1084 / XIII / 4. a. We are now entering the voting period. While Mr. Members register electronically, Mr. Duarte Pacheco will take account of the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u372	Mrs. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First of all, the Proposal for a Law No 189 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs the tax regime applicable to the UEFA Nations League Finals 2019 and UEFA Super Cup Final 2020, which falls to 5. the Commission. The Drafts of Law No. 1165 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Table. a ( CDS-PP ) — Ensures mandatory training for judges in the area of gender equality and domestic violence( 3 ). the amendment to Law No 2 / 2008, from 14 January ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1166 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates the nature of public crimes of threats and coercion crimes, adapting them to the crime of domestic violence ( the forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1167 / XIII / 4. a ( NAP) — prohibits the use of palm oil in the production of biofuels, which falls to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, and 1168 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Expansion of consumer guarantee for movable and immovable property ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 67 / 2003 of 8 April 2003 ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Resolution Nos 2039 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of an emergency climate change fund which falls to 11. the Commission, 2040 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of support and information offices for the victim of domestic violence, which falls to 1. the Commission, 2041 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Development of epidemiological and environmental study to evaluate the effects of the labor of the National Siderurgia in the village of Paio Pires, municipality of Seixal, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2042 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government that it establish a temporary moratorium regime for the common roll hunt, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2043 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government determine the cancellation of Fridão hydroelectric use construction project, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 2044 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers for more than 30 days from 18 March 2019. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u373	I believe that, in the meantime, there have been conditions for the honourable Members. Members will register, using the electronic system, so we will proceed with the verification of the deliberation quorum. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence register so that it will be considered their presence at the meeting. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 214 presences to which 2 are added by the Members. Members Jorge Costa and Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Block of Left, thanking 216 Members, therefore we have quorum to proceed to the votes. We passed to Vote No 766 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD members ) — Despite the death of Vítor José Domingos Campos, who will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u374	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died Victor José Domingos Campos. Born in Torres Vedras, on March 11, 1944, Vítor Campos graduated from Medicine at the University of Coimbra School of Medicine in 1971. He was noted as a player of the Académic Association of Coimbra wearing this shirt for 13 consecutive times. During this period, he horrified himself at the time of 1966 / 1967 and played two finals of the Portugal Cup in 1967 and 1969. It was international for the Portuguese Soccer Selection. in this quality, Vítor Campos was one of the greatest symbols of the Academy, where he debuted in 1963 and where he performed 345 games. He highlighted himself as a student player, being one of the symbols of the city of Coimbra and the Academy in the time when it was also a very important symbol of the struggle for freedom and democracy. in this context, it was celebrated the final of the Portugal Cup against Sport Lisboa and Benfica in 1969, in which it participated, and in which this game became one of the largest and most important demonstrations against dictatorship due to its framework in the context of the academic crisis of 1969. After completing his sports career, he was always connected to the Academy, as a partner and leader, and was currently the number one partner of the Veterans Core. Its human dimension was also recognized as a remarkable doctor. With the specialty of anesthetist he developed most of his career at the Hospital of the University of Coimbra. Vítor Campos has maintained throughout his life a position of great solidarity, of rare loyalty and of exemplary civicism, which will allow him to remember as a reference to all those who deprived him. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the disappearance of Vítor Campos, transmitting to the family and friends and to the Academic Association of Coimbra ( OAF ) his condolences for his death. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u375	I wanted to say that I also join this vote, since I knew the Vítor Campos, for whom I nurtured great esteem and admiration, and whose family is present in the galleries. Let us then vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 767 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — regretting the death of the actor and stagemaker Armando Caldas, who will be read by Ms.Secretariat Sofia Araújo. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u376	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Armando Caldas was born in 1935, in Elvas. His whole life was devoted to culture, particularly theatre, as an actor, stager, divulner. He was an actor in 1958 at the Teatro Avenida, in Lisbon, with The Lisboa, of Carlo Goldoni. He founded in 1961 with Rogério Paulo, Armando Cortez, Carmen Dolores and Fernando Gusmão, the Modern Theatre of Lisbon, considered the first independent theatre group that, acting in the days of fascism, had an enormous importance in the renovation of theatre and cultural intervention. In 1969, he founded the First Act — Theatre Club, in Algeria, and later the Interval — Theatre Group, which works in Lourdes Norberto Auditorium, in Linda-a-Velha. He participated in several television films, particularly in the 1960s. Armando Caldas defended and brought to practice a political and socially interventional theatre, having staged the greatest names of the world dramaturgy. Member of the Portuguese Communist Party since 1956 has also been a member of the social bodies of the Workers' Union of the Show. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 15 March 2019, expresses its regret at the death of Armando Caldas and sends condolences to his relatives and the Portuguese Communist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u377	We shall vote for this vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We still have vote No 768 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — regretting the death of Fernando Midões, which will be read by Secretary Sofia Araújo. In this case too, we have the family present in the galleries. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u378	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died, 86 years old, in the Artist's House, where he lived, Fernando Midões. Natural of Lisbon, attended the Camões High School, graduated in Pedagogic Sciences by the Faculty of Letters of Lisbon and graduated in Law at the School of Law of Coimbra. He worked at RTP for decades. He participated in the historic television show on 25 April and was a significant part of the news of the first Telejournal in freedom. He has run dozens of RTP programmes, including television theatre. Since early on, the theatre has been her passion, having been one of the founders of the Central Law Group of the School of Law of Lisbon, where, in addition to the actor, she has lit some pieces. He began his career as a theatre critic, in the newspaper La Planície, later working with the Popular Diário and the Diário de Noticias. His words remained for newspapers and magazines (Flame, R & T, More Magazine, Amateur News, among others) and on television programs ( Row T) and radios about theatre. He was a member of the Portuguese Society of Authors and the Portuguese Association of Theatre Critics. In 2017, his spur of theatrical criticism was handed over to the Theatre Museum, which has opened it up for consultation. Militant of the CFP from 1974 until his death, Fernando Midões was representative of the workers in the RTP Workers' Committee and member of the Journalists'Union. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 15 March 2019, expresses its regret at the death of Fernando Midões and sends condolences to his relatives and the Portuguese Communist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u379	Let us then vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 771 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Disclaimer and condemnation of the attack in Christchurch, New Zealand. I ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u380	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Today, March 15, terrorist attacks were carried out in two Christchurch mosques in New Zealand. Tens are raised the number of dead, many are wounded, and the shock of the populations is profound. Those barbaric acts were premeditated to take place on a Friday, when Islamic communities fill the mosques to pray in peace their weekly prayer. The rejection that causes us is also a call for reflection on the causes of terrorism, the need to combat and defend our values of freedom, peace and democracy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of the attacks committed in Christchurch and expresses the sentiments of its deep sorrow and solidarity with the families of the victims, the authorities and the people of New Zealand'.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u381	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 764 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the NAP and signed by PS Members ) — Of regret and solidarity for the victims and situation of the Tibetan people. As we have done at this session, only the votes of regret are read and in this vote only in the last paragraph is the proposed regret. I therefore ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read this paragraph.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at all those who have died in the defence of Tibetan self-determination and its solidarity with the Tibetan people who, despite the harsh repression and threat of imprisonment, disappearances, torture and murder, continue to be strong to date and find other ways of defending themselves through actions of cultural resistance, claims of national identity and environmental defence».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u383	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u384	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u385	Mr President, we are in the middle of a vote. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, two PS (Isabel Alves Moreira and Wanda Guimarães) and 4 CDS-PP (João Pinho de Almeida, João Rebelo, Pedro Mota Soares and Telmo Correia) and 11 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, António Cardoso, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Conceição Loureiro, Isabel Santos, Luís Graça, Margarida Marques, Porfírio Silva and Sonia Fertuzinhos) were rejected by vote.]] Mr André Silva, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u386	Mr President, I use the floor on the conduct of the proceedings. I would like to disagree with the Bureau's position by not allowing this vote to be read and I would like to ask that the Bureau act in harmony with what has been done throughout the legislature in respect of these votes: all the votes of regret and solidarity, all of them, have been read in full. And contrary to what Mr President said, the previous vote, which was of regret and condemnation, was read. Therefore, in accordance with the tradition of this House, in this legislature, in which all votes have been read, I ask the Bureau to read the vote of the NAP of regret and solidarity for the victims and situation of the Tibetan people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u387	Mr President, you have already noticed where you are going, but what has been decided today, by consensus among all the benches, is that only the weighing votes would be read. In fact, in this vote, the weighing component is very limited and that is only what leads to a reading of this part.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u388	But there are precedents!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u389	It was a decision I made. If you would like to appeal to the plenary, please appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u390	Mr. President, I want to appeal for every reason and because...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u391	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u392	Mr President, then, if this decision was taken today, it was not taken for all the votes, but only for the vote on the NAP, because the previous vote was of regret and condemnation, not only of regret.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u393	The previous vote had a paragraph...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u394	The decision that was taken today by you was arbitrary and was taken solely for the vote of the NAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u395	Mr President, on this vote, I would like to raise an incident, first of all because I wanted you to read the vote yourself, which is unusual. As you know, today we have voted two pedigree votes, concerning militants of the Communist Party, and no leader of the Communist Party here here has even wanted to read those votes. So around this issue seems to want to find an incident. But if you wish to appeal, you will resort to a posteriori and the appeal will be voted on. Let us then vote on the appeal brought by Mr André Silva. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, with votes in favour of the PAN and 7 Members of the CDS-PP and with abstentions of BE, of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of 1 Member of the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u396	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u397	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u398	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will present a declaration of vote individually and, more important than that, we still need to keep a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u399	Exactly. We are coming to the end of the vote on these votes and, despite this vote which has not been adopted, we will keep a minute's silence on all previous votes of regret. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u400	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u401	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u402	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u403	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u404	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u405	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u406	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u407	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u408	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u409	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u410	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u411	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 759 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies ) — From praise to athlete Nelson Évora. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 760 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — From praise to the Beach Football Team of the Sporting Club Braga. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on vote No 761 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — From praise to the Portuguese delegation to the European Championship for Athletes Covered Tracking with Intellectual Deficiency. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 762 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PSD members ) — Concern and condemnation for the worsening situation in Venezuela. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were approved.]] Let us now vote on vote No 765 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemnation of provocation and attacks against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and of solidarity with the Venezuelan people and with the Portuguese community. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We continue with the vote on vote No 763 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the NAP and signed by PS members ) — Sentence by the 33-year prison sentence applied to Nasrin Sotoudeh by the Iranian regime. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u412	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u413	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u414	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u415	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 2044 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers for more than 30 days from 18 March 2019. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1976 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently implement measures to prevent and combat domestic violence. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] This draft resolution is down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u416	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u417	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u418	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party will deliver a statement of vote on the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u419	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1998 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government increase measures to improve the capacity to respond to situations of domestic violence. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PS, the PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u420	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u421	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u422	Mr President, with regard to the vote on this draft resolution, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will also deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u423	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 2001 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on working conditions in contact centres ( callcenters ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Down to 10. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 1948 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — By regulation of work in call center. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote on draft resolution No 1949 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and regulation of the profession of contact centres operator, strengthening the rights of rest, rest, hygiene, health and safety at work. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] Down to 10. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1985 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Establishment and regulation of the profession of call center operator. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] Down to 10. the Commission. We now proceed to the vote on an application submitted by BE, asking the Committee for Labour and Social Security to be discharged, without voting for a period of 60 days from the Bill No 1088 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates and regulates the career as an auxiliary health technician. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we will proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1122 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Approves the letter for public participation in health and the terms of its disclosure, implementation and evaluation. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and abstentions from the PS, the CDS-PP and the Greens.]] Down to 9. the Commission. Mrs. Catarina Marcelino asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u424	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u425	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The general vote on draft resolution No 1995 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government reject amending the European Union's decision-making process in the field of tax policy by unanimity for a qualified majority. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] Down to 4. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 2005 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the reservation of national sovereignty in tax policy within the European Union's construction process. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, against the PS, BE and the PAN and with abstentions from the CFP, the Greens and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] Down to 4. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 824 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of the application of the sustainability factor to long-term involuntary unemployment pensions and provides for a review of special schemes and measures in anticipation of the age of access to old age pensions. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 825 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Revokes the sustainability factor and restores the legal age of reform to 65 years. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 826 / XIII / 3 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of penalties to workers who have already entered the early retirement pension. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and with votes in favour of BE, PCP and The Greens and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and PAN.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to keep the silence possible during the vote, because it is already 14 hours and 30 minutes and we still have many votes to do. Noise effectively harms the work. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 827 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Valorizes long-term contribution careers, ensuring access to pension without penalties and regardless of age, to workers who complete 40 years of discounts. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 911 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — eliminates the sustainability factor and replaces the legal age of reform at age 65; [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote for Bill No. 916 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Removes penalties applied to workers who have already entered the early retirement pension. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1136 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Resets the retirement age of 65 years and establishes the customized reduction of the retirement age for workers with 40 years of discounts or more( 11 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 187/2007 of 10 May 2007. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 1137 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates an extraordinary complement to compensate pensioners with long careers contributing to cuts resulting from the application of the sustainability factor between 2014 and 2019. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 1138 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Elimination of the sustainability factor of pensions required under special schemes for access to disability and old age pensions, the early retirement scheme, in particular in long-term involuntary unemployment and the replacement of the legal retirement age in 65 years. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1026 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Assigns the collection of samples of water and biofilms in situations of clustering or outbreak to environmental health technicians ( first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Down to 11. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 1068 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) - Allocation to environmental health technicians of public health units the collection of water samples in environmental research in the identification of sources of contamination and dissemination of legionella ( makes the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] Down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 1077 / XIII / 4. a (NAP) — Alter to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August establishing the regime for the prevention and control of legionaires' disease. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 1084 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August, in order to confer on environmental health technicians competences for the collection of samples of water and biofilms in the field of epidemiological research ( first amendment to Law No 52 / 2018 of 20 August ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Down to 11. the Commission. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1533 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — By the urgent rehabilitation of the Basic School 2 / 3 Friar Caetano Brandão de Braga. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, The Greens, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and two PS (Maria Augusta Santos and Nuno Sá) and the PS abstention.]] Then we will vote for draft resolution No 1993 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that censuses and monitoring of the species subject to kinegetic exploitation are carried out. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of The Greens.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft resolutions No 1774 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Implementation of measures for the monitoring and depollution of watercourses that drain in the Esmoriz Barrinha / Lagoa de Paramos, 1812 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote measures to eliminate pollution outbreaks in the Esmoriz Quarter / Lagoa de Paramos and 1932 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary inquiries to ensure that all spaces included in the Natura 2000 Network are properly preserved and preserved. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on draft Law No 118 / XIII / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulation of the advertising of food products for children and young people, 120 / XIII / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 14. the amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October, establishing restrictions on advertising to minors of certain food and drink products and 123 / XIII / 1. a (The Greens) — regulates advertising to food products addressed to children and young people, amending the Advertising Code. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u426	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u427	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u428	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u429	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft Law No 865 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — regulates the use of digital devices for personal use and allows digital photography in public libraries and archives. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSD abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u430	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u431	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u432	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u433	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will take note of an opinion from the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u434	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 19 of the Central Criminal Court of Lisbon, of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Case No 3773 / 12.4TDLSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Magalhães ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-15.u435	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having completed our work today, it remains to be recalled that the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, 19 a.m. at 15 p.m. on the agenda, firstly, the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a) ). the RA Regiment. Secondly, the debate is followed, with the participation of the Prime Minister, the preparatory session of the European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. Finally, we shall proceed to the debate, with the participation of the Government, on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( b ). the Law on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation of the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union construction process ( approved by Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August ) and the participation of Portugal in Permanent Structured Cooperation, as provided for in Article 4 ( 1 ( k ). the Law on Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union ( approved by Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August ). The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 36 minutes.]]
