ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. Before we begin our agenda today, I will give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce some file that has entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following bills: No 1059 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Third amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), incorporating an area of study that affects the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 1060 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — prohibits the marketing and import of cosmetics and hygiene products containing microplastics and regulates their presence in other products; No 1061 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements a programme to reduce the use of microplastics in cosmetics and hygiene and cleaning products; No 1062 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Regulates the adult use of cannabis; No 1063 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Improvement of health conditions, in the working environment, of forces and security services, which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 1064 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Establishs an observatory in the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor compliance with the obligations imposed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which falls to 1. the Commission ; points 1065 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Health Bases Act, which falls to 9. the Commission ; and points 1066 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Health Bases Act, which falls to 9. the Commission. The following Resolution Projects were also entered: No 1903 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Integration of Lorvão Psychiatric Hospital into the national network of continuous integrated care, thus increasing the number of public beds in this network; n.o 1904 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the adoption of legislative and sensitization measures related to cardiac resuscitation, which decreases to 9. the Commission ; point 1927 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Extension of the scope of coverage of school insurance for bicycle travel, which falls to 6. the Commission ; No 1928 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a contingency action plan to minimize the effects and consequences of a disorderly exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union, which falls to 4. the Commission ; points 1929 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Measures to depolulate, protect and enhance the environment of the Pateira de Fermentelos, Requexo and Carregal and the river Certima ; and No 1930 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Panama. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u3	Mrs. Members, we are in a position to begin the first item on our agenda today with the general assessment of the Bill No 167 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem, whom I welcome and wish for a good year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at the time of my first speech in this House in 2019, to present to all the votes of a good year, with the expectation that, in respect for our differences, of course, this will be a year of joint work, in order to have a more prosperous, less unequal country and, above all, with happier citizens. The Government today presents to this Parliament a set of legislative proposals aimed at improving the organizational and managerial environment in administrative and tax jurisdiction, as well as, through mechanisms for simplifying and rationalizing procedural acts, favoring the resolution of conflicts in good time, breaking with the blockades that have come to light in this jurisdiction. This bill amends the ETAF ( Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ) in three particular dimensions: first, in the dimension of specialization; second, in the administration and management of the courts; third, in support of the decision. With regard to specialization, it is proposed that TACs (administrative circle courts) be opened up in specialised jurisdiction courts. In addition to the common judgments, we would have, according to the proposal, social judgments, public contracts and judgments of urbanism, environment and spatial planning whenever the volume and procedural complexity justified it. in tax jurisdiction, we foresee the possibility of creating, together with common tax courts, tax enforcement judgments and counter-ordinational remedies judgments. As regards the organisation and management of courts, the proposal we bring is conservative. in the background, what it is about to decal, bring to the administrative and tax jurisdiction the model of organization that already exists in the common courts, creating geographical areas and providing them with management bodies. Finally, of course, we also propose that these courts be provided with technical advice to support their judges in matters which are increasingly complex in both disputes. In addition, we have introduced some amendments to better suit the competences of the Supreme Administrative Court and improve the response to conflict systems. This is the essential part of the proposal we are bringing here, and we are not left here, since we have a whole set of other proposals that make up the so-called 'administrative package'. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u5	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u6	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: First of all, Madam Minister, welcome this debate and this reform of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. This is a reform that is urgent and to which the CDS, as you know, gave up in March 2018. We were hoping to receive the contributions from the other political forces and therefore I would like to congratulate you, Mrs. Minister, on finally joining our concerns and bringing here a matter that is essential, which covers three areas that are vital and that come to meet what we have also proposed in March 2018, as I have already said. I speak of the specialization, administration and management of the courts and boards, which are three areas that we have also developed, specifically in the Bill No 788 / XIII / 3. the, hoping that, in the field of specialty, there will be room for a normative meeting, if I can use this expression, so that we take advantage of the best of one and another diploma, because, essentially, they play, they are similar, having here some combinations that make sense to do. Therefore, the CDS is open for this regulatory meeting, and I hope that the government and the PS will also be. Mr Minister, however, two problems arise in two matters that are very expensive to us and that the CDS has brought to the discussion very many times, having the first problem with counsellors. As you know, the CDS has already proposed three times the advice, and not only to the TAF (administrative and tax courts) ; I wanted to see them extended to all the courts, but, finally, we are now talking about the TAF and therefore I will concentrate on them. The problem is the following: during the public consultation of these bills, which was theoretically at issue, were 20 specialists to assist the judges of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. Now, with the introduction of this bill, what we see is not only that; what we see is not only the judicial judges of the administrative and fiscal courts but also the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the presidents of the courts of 1. the instance and the central courts, thus having an increase in the universe of people who will be assisted. So it seems to us that this number will be insufficient, because of the two: either it would be worth the amount, or now it is insufficient. We would therefore like to see whether, in fact, this number will be revised or not. In addition, there is one doubt, which is the following: are these 20 experts going to or do not co-adjugate the pending recovery teams? It is that we speak of a reality of 72,000 pending processes, we speak of a reality in which there are 171 judges with an average of 417 cases each and therefore it is not a matter of disregarding the re-equation of this number. So it was important that you tell us whether these 20 experts will or will not meet all these circumstances. The second problem has to do with the lack of realisation regarding the management, activity, function and training of these specialists...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u7	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. in this case, the proposal is limited to refer to the law that regulates LOSJ ( Law of the Judicial System Organization ). As we know, LOSJ and this regulation are insufficient in this area, so I would like to point out, Mrs Minister, if we can in fact ensure the effectiveness of these experts' duties. Madam Minister, in the next debate I will ask you more specifically about this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u9	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u10	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Deputies and Mr Members : I would like to leave three notes on this legislative initiative that we consider to be of the greatest importance for a justice system capable of responding to the needs of citizens. The first note is as follows: in good time, the Government presents these initiatives, which are intended to change or correct the malfunction of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction through its robustness, through its agility, through its adequacy to reality and, therefore, the government works well when it chooses this way, but it is wrong for the government and any actors when they invoke the malfunction of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction to offer, as an alternative, an arbitration path, a path of dejudicialization. Therefore, this date should be marked as pointing out an option that we believe to be true, which is to correct the malfunction and not to invoke the malfunction to offer a disparate alternative. Second note: since the 2004 reform of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction, almost from the beginning, there have already been courts which, especially in tax jurisdiction, have been congested, let us say so - a set of interventions which have had as their common character the case-case, its scattered character, its conjuncural character has taken place. The central problem is always the same: a morosity that accumulates, expectations that accumulate and, therefore, with this accumulation, call into question the fundamental rights of citizens in their relationship with the public authorities. But the truth is that the correction interventions of the system have basically been pointed to an intervention of a conjuncural nature. Therefore, this must be an initiative by the Government and by the Assembly of the Republic, which goes in the direction of overcoming the conjuncural situation, of meeting what is truly structural and of pointing to results that are not left for now, but that go to the future, preventing the return of other forms of morbidity or other dysfunctions. That is why the recovery of expectations is very certain, of course, that is why the procedural agility, which we are going to discuss above all on the second point of our agenda, is also very important, but they will be little if they are not taken in a truly structural way. With this, Mrs. Minister, I come into the third and final note of this intervention: there are some important ways of responding to the structural...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u11	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u12	All right, Mr. President. in this case, I reserve myself to talk about these paths at the second point of the agenda. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u13	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u14	Mr President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: This legislative amendment proposed by the Government to the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals is welcome. It is known that the administrative and tax courts are one of the serious problems with which the Portuguese judicial system has been confronted, given the scarcity of the administrative courts, which makes these courts practically refer in recent years to the resolution of precautionary provisions, causing an absolutely unacceptable grubbing-up in relation to the decision on the underlying and substantive cases that matter to decide in good time so that justice is effective. These measures, which aim at the specialization of administrative and tax courts, are of course to be welcomed, as is the introduction of a framework of advisers in administrative and fiscal courts. But there is a fundamental issue for all of this to work and that obviously does not have to do with this legislative process directly, but indirectly with other legislative measures: the effective strengthening of a judges' framework in administrative and fiscal courts. This is, in fact, one of the major problems and of course, as it has been put into practice — the strengthening of the judicial framework of the administrative and fiscal courts — is essential for these courts to be able to recover the liabilities that exist, at present, in relation to the expectations that have been dragged over several years. Therefore, unlocking administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is fundamental and this naturally implies legislative and practical measures that have to do with an increase in the capacity of these courts in decision-making terms, either in the strengthening of the technological component, which is also important, but especially in strengthening the human resources and in the adoption of procedural mechanisms that allow for greater speed of decision-making within this jurisdiction. The CFP, of course, follows the legislative effort to be made in this area, hoping that this will be completed, too, with the speed necessary for these measures to be implemented as soon as possible. from our point of view, it is also because of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction — not because of other extrajudicial mechanisms — that the problem of the legal relationship between the State and the citizens must be resolved. The head office for this is the administrative and fiscal courts and it is important that they are provided with the conditions for effective functioning, for the sake of democratic legality and the realization of the fundamental rights of citizens before the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u15	You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u16	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Deputies and Mr Members: over the past 20 years, there have been numerous legislative amendments and initiatives to improve and speed up the efficiency and speed of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. In 2015, the PSD made a significant contribution to a new era in the enhancement of administrative justice in Portugal with the revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure, the revision of the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. These reforms were fundamental for the improvement and monitoring of the legal, administrative and fiscal system and were also essential for greater confidence in justice and for more open, transparent and more efficient administration. The Government shall amend for the second time the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, following a broad discussion initiated and the initiatives of two working groups. The PSD is, of course, available to contribute to the improvement of administrative and fiscal justice and to a more constructive and dialogueative intervention. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in general, the proposal deserves our agreement, as it recognises one of the main problems of administrative justice: delays and congestion of administrative and fiscal courts. Moreover, it has the merit of trying to find solutions to improve the efficiency of the courts and delays through the specialization of the courts. This principle of specialization is long defended by the PSD. In fact, we can say that we are facing a check-up or a copy of what has been done by the PSD Government with regard to the common courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the big question here is whether this proposal is sufficient to achieve the desired objectives for the recovery of procedural expectations so that, in the future, the proceedings will be decided within reasonable time limits. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have many doubts whether this proposal from the Government meets the substance of the problem. There is a consensus, as we know, on the diagnosis of administrative and fiscal justice in Portugal, is known the deficit of judges, prosecutors, judicial officials and the shortcomings of administrative courts. The resolution of the current problems does not seem to depend solely on a review of the legislation or a genuine reform of justice, but on the need to provide the administrative and fiscal courts with more means, more judges, more prosecutors, more judicial officials in order to recover the expectations of the older cases. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not see, therefore, that with this proposal the Government can solve the structural and substantive problem. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much more needs to be done to end congestion and the slowness of administrative and fiscal justice. Administrative litigation is essential for the exercise of citizens' fundamental rights. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u17	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Minister and all the members of the House and wish everyone a good year of parliamentary work. In particular, I would also like to welcome what seems to have been a clear consensus on the importance of today's measures for the review of the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. In fact, the last 20 years have been very positive in terms of restructuring of this sector, both jurisdiction and even procedural legislation, that we will discuss in the following point. In particular, I would focus on this aspect. Specialization in administrative and tax jurisdiction is one of the fundamental parts for the proper functioning of the system, perhaps the one that has been taking longer. at this point I would disagree a little about what Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa said. in the judicial and common courts for a long time we have the reality of specialization, it is not something that has been particularly invented in recent times. in administrative jurisdiction it was long ago, in order to follow what, substantively and in the specialization of administrative law itself, has increasingly been a reality present. Not entirely following what has been said about the relationship with arbitration, we recognize and continue to recognize that this is important, obviously with good sense. I believe that all the proposals presented today recognise this: there is a role for alternative means of resolution of compatible and perfectly integrable disputes in a robust system, in which the rule of law is protected through administrative and fiscal courts, which are the ones we are discussing today. As you said, I was now focusing, particularly on specialization, which, as the Minister mentioned, is a fundamental aspect of what is proposed here. It is that we meet not only a quantitative dimension of the cases in which we show a greater volume of litigation and need for specialization, but also effectively corresponds to a clearly qualitative dimension in relation to the correspondence between procedural law and substantive law. If we are to see, the three types of specialized judgments that we have created in the first instance—social, relating to public employment and social protection— correspond to what is already an autonomous and highly specialized body of substantive legislation, which revolves around the General Law on Public Works and all legislation on social protection. These require, in fact, a degree of specialization that not all those dealing with administrative law are in a position to offer in the same way. This is exactly the same reasoning in terms of public procurement. We are also faced with a very clear legislative body, through a code and complementary legislation which also requires us, and almost force us, to put this option in the specialization plan. Finally, the issue of urbanism, which, for a long time, has been almost autonomous as a branch of own law, is also worthy of this autonomous treatment here. In addition, it is also important to remember that we now have the opportunity to revisit the scope of administrative jurisdiction. We often think that it is a closed and closed matter, but in fact flexibility in its management allows us to recognize once again that it makes sense that some matters in the administrative jurisdiction return to the common courts, particularly in matters which are entirely similar to the right of consumption. It must be acknowledged that, from the perspective of the citizens, who are also, if we wish, direct agents of the judicial system, it is essential, too, that they have the capacity to understand and to know where to go when they have a dispute to resolve by judicial means.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u19	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u20	I will finish, Mr. President. The model we have had so far was not entirely satisfactory in this same area, because these legal relations, in fact, share the same characteristics that we find in common courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u21	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u22	I shall conclude, Mr President. We reiterate that we have full availability to improve the proposals put forward, in particular by meeting the suggestions made, as has always been done in the field of review of legislation in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u23	To give the closing intervention, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank the opening of all the parliamentary groups here for these proposals and for the need for this reform, which I believe to be consensual. I would like to point out that the reform is not left by the proposal which has now been put forward, because there are a number of initiatives taken within the government and in addition there are other proposals put forward in Parliament itself. I would say that the questions raised refer essentially to the difficulties associated with the fact that we are making a mere amendment in a way that solves the issues in the day-to-day, but does not solve the substantive issues, or, on the contrary, we want a substantive amendment. I believe that what we are proposing solves the fundamental issues, although I also believe that the issue raised by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves is important. in recent years, administrative jurisdiction has grown and, I would say, in a way that, in material perspective, it is difficult to distinguish what is common and administrative jurisdiction. Today, we have a situation in which, in relation to the same dispute, one or another jurisdiction intervenes, depending on the quality of one of the actors involved. A problem with an operation performed in a private hospital is judged in common justice, a problem with an operation performed in a public hospital is judged in administrative justice. The matter is materially the same and this has actually generated a great deal of proliferation in conflicts that it is important to avoid. That is why it might be useful to take this matter into consideration in the field of expertise. The great concern was that there was a basic consensus on the substance of the issues. I think that consensus exists, and I thank the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the effort they will certainly make in the field. I mean, I'm convinced they were waiting for this with anxiety. And I hope that the anxiety they were waiting for will be directly proportional to the speed with which this dossier will be working in Parliament so that we can quickly find answers to the administrative and tax legislation that needs them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u25	We move on to the second point of our agenda, which is generally discussed in the Proposal for a Law No 168 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Other procedural arrangements within the administrative and tax jurisdiction. To open the debate, you have the floor again, for an intervention, Mrs. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Because of me, it was indeed a pity, from a methodological point of view, that we have not worked on the two issues together, this and the previous one. Essentially, this second bill introduces a set of changes of a more procedural nature, aiming exactly the same objective: on the one hand, simplify and, on the other hand, expedite and allow the timely realization of administrative and tax justice. with regard to the Code of Procedure and Procedure of Administrative and Tributary Tribunals, the Government worked on two guidelines: the first is the need for procedural concentration and the second is simplification. As regards aggregation, such as the honourable Members. Members have seen, we have significantly extended the possibility of accumulating requests and we have introduced a greater stimulus to the suspension of actions, requiring the Tributary Authority to substantiate whenever it considers that there is no reason for the suspension. Then we allow the individual to defend himself in a single procedural part when there are several executions, regardless of whether or not they are planned. We also imported figures from the Code of Administrative Procedure with evidence given, such as the selection of priority processes or the pre-judicial referral or trial in an extended form. The written allegations will only take place in those situations where no evidence has been produced or the evidence does not consist of the case or when the judge so understands. As in the CPTA ( Code of Procedure in Administrative Courts), in territorial jurisdiction it becomes informal knowledge, which determines the electronic informal transfer of the case to the competent court. We approach the system of precautionary measures of a judicial nature in favour of the taxpayer and the others obliged to the regime which is in force for the administrative authorities and simplify the appeal, putting it more in line with the rules of the Civil Procedure Code and of the CPTA. With regard to the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals, we simplify the pre-contractual dispute, provide for the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the context of the concrete supervision of constitutionality and legality in administrative arbitration, and also provide that the remedies brought against decisions made in the sense of uniform case-law have a purely devolved meaning and that the simplest matters are judged by shorter formations. At the same time, we have introduced changes in the legal regime of urbanization and construction, also in the sense of simplifying procedures, and in the legal regime of tax arbitration, in which we begin to envisage the intervention of a public ministry in the context of concrete constitutional supervision, as well as the mandatory publication of arbitrary tax decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u27	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Return to the intervention which I left in the middle of a short time ago to take account of some aspects that we think are important in this other legislative initiative. The Left Block generally accompanies the meaning and scope that has been given to the various stirs in laws of a procedural and procedural nature. Therefore, from this point of view, we believe that the analysis that was made, based on studies we know, is really worthy to be taken forward. There are, however, a number of cautions that we believe we should put here. Firstly, there will be little effect with these amendments if, at the same time, there is no reform of the work processes, of the organization of work, in the judicial secretaries, in matters of administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. The opinion of the trade union association of judges, for example, gives a concrete indication in this sense, which seems to us to be taking into account. But it is just one of the suggestions that would be worth considering. Secondly, the practice of redistribution of processes seems to be also negative. That is, when an open-ended judge is placed in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction, the proceedings coming from the replaced judge, or from the replaced judge, should remain unchanged, because this results in an amendment that also causes penance, laziness, etc. Third caution to be considered: few changes will take effect if the operating computer support of the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction is not significantly improved. Therefore, yes, it is good that there are changes in the regulatory area, particularly in the procedural area, but nowadays, increasingly, computer support is of the greatest importance for this agileization to have practical consequences. Finally, none of this will produce the intended effect if the administrative and tax courts are not provided with the necessary human resources, either in judges or in judicial officials. We know that it is a kind of mantra that accompanies us in this discussion, but it is a mantra that I do not excuse myself to repeat with conviction, because we are indeed convinced that, without these human resources in sufficient number and endowed with the appropriate specialization, none of this will certainly produce effects, and it is very important that these effects are actually produced. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u29	Mr Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u30	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: This is a matter that is closely related to the matter that we spoke about recently, and again the government comes to the meeting of the proposals that the CDS made this time in Bill No 787 / XIII, which it presented in March 2018. Also here the CDS is fully available to reach the desirable regulatory meeting and here too the answers go in a double sense. On the one hand, the measures seem absolutely essential to us, since they have to do with correcting the constraints and strangulations that this jurisdiction suffers. On the other hand, the increase in private guarantees is absolutely essential and the mechanisms found here give an answer to that. For this reason, the Minister, for our part, has all the openness to discuss some matters more strongly. In any case, we believe that in this matter the path is right and we therefore want to welcome it. I am now going back to the question which I left you recently on the question of advice and also the second problem I mentioned. He was told that there was a lack of implementation regarding the management, activity, function and training of these specialist technicians because the law merely refers to the regulation of the Law on the Organisation of the Judiciary System. The law that regulates LOSJ presupposes advice with administrative and financial autonomy and with a proper organic that this council does not, nor will it, predict. So it doesn't seem to me to be a way to make this matter work, and it needed to be tuned and revised. In addition, there is an issue up to this, which has to do with the single jurisdiction and the merger of the two councils, which the CDS defends and will not fail to defend. But this needs a constitutional review that this House does not want to do, although the CDS has asked it to do so, and therefore this reform will always be incomplete and half, because in our view, it lacks this review. There is also another problem, Mrs. Minister, which has to do with the pending recovery teams. This pendant recovery team is ambitious and seems to us to be on the right track. But it seems to us that the number of 28 judges found to resolve these expectations — those 72 000 I was talking about recently — is a short number. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, we are at risk of going from an extraordinary team to an extraordinary team without ever solving the problem at once, which is, in itself, problematic. There is also to solve, in the same way, the problem of insufficiency, not only of judges as of judicial officers. The Secretary of State, in June 2016, told the Journal of Business that there would be “a battery of judicial officials” for this matter and, after all, there is not even a competition for judicial officers and this reform is at risk of stopping the amount and the downstream. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, it was important that you tell us whether or not there are judicial officials able to deal with this problem. Finally, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you how you view the CDS proposal which refers to arbitration proceedings which have been pending for more than two years in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction since the parties' request is made. It seems to us that this proposal makes sense and that it is, in fact, a structural one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u31	Mr Sara Madruga of the Costa, for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u32	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Deputies and Mr Members: The administrative and tax courts have increasingly assumed precedence over the regulation of our social life. in the last two decades, this jurisdiction has become an important judicial arena, where important problems, fundamental rights of citizens or the border between political and judicial powers are discussed. over the years, there has been an incessant search for efficiency and speed in administrative justice, but so far the reformist objectives of the government are still in our view, far from being achieved, given the congestion and inefficiency of the administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, we agree with the electronic processing of the judicial process, but we consider that these procedural changes still constitute small steps, steps which are insufficient, in themselves, to increase efficiency, speed and the capacity to respond to the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. The resolution of the current problems requires the Government to provide the courts with more means, more judges, more prosecutors and more judicial officials. But for that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there must be, first of all, justice for those who work in it. The Government must sit at the negotiating table with the different judicial operators, be available to review its statutes and to reflect on the reasons for the discontent that fattens in justice. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the latest data from the Directorate-General for Justice Policy show an increase in litigency associated with the increase in response times of the courts. at the end of 2016, the number of pending cases in administrative and fiscal jurisdiction amounts to 72 516 cases: 49 820 cases in tax courts and the remaining 22 696 cases in circle administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is required to increase the value of administrative justice. If there is an area where it is even more evident what slowness does and where late justice ceases to be justice is in administrative and fiscal law. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, justice and speed need to be done! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u33	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u34	Mr President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this second debate, the Minister said that she had all the logic that there had been a merger between the previous point of our agenda and this because, indeed, they are absolutely complementary. I would say that the debate we had before would be more of a characteristic of debate in general, and this would be a debate in the specialty. If this second debate gives us less work here in plenary, since it is a more thorough, essentially technical, procedural diploma, of course, the fine mesh that needs to be discussed with regard to this legislative initiative is not compatible with the times when, of course, the debate takes place in plenary, in compensation for giving us more work in the field. It is, indeed, a matter on which it is important now, indeed, for this proposal of law, that it no longer has to do with the basic structural principles and it only gives them a realisation from a procedural point of view, that there is a great deal of care and a detailed assessment, of course with the hearing of judicial officers, with the hearing of those who, in administrative courts, contact each day with their functioning, to make the most accurate decisions from a technical point of view. on our part, what we want to reiterate at this time is our willingness to participate in this debate and seek to conclude, as soon as possible, a reform of the administrative and fiscal courts which, in fact, enables the constitutional plans of access to an effective judicial screen. We want the law not to be an obstacle to these objectives being pursued, and it is certain that, as was said in the previous debate, in addition to the good legislative solutions that need to be adopted, there must be an effective allocation of human, material and technological resources so that things can actually work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u35	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Secretary of State : Indeed, this debate is not the second round of the previous debate, but some relevant topics have been reviewed. It began precisely by commenting on what Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa mentioned about the idea that the means are an indispensable aspect to improving the quality of the system. Nobody denies it, but we're talking about administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. I recall that the number of administrative courts of first instance circle and even the number of second instance courts of 20 years ago does not compare with the increase of the network that exploded in terms of quantity, allowing us today to have the 16 first instance courts we have and the two central administrative courts. The reality prior to this was almost a reality I would say from another time, literally from another time, in which litigation with public authorities was neither dear nor even embraced by state institutions, a reality that changed diametrically. Therefore, there has been a substantial strengthening over the years—of course, neither the Government nor the PS Parliamentary Group no longer recognises that this strengthening is positive and necessary as well—but that does not mean the importance that procedural legislation and the administrative judicial organisation can also be called upon to play in this same role. This is the second debate we are having: on procedural, tax and administrative legislation. I must say, in particular with regard to amendments to the CPPT (Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure), that, here, it feels the importance of these amendments, as we would almost say, there are two brothers not totally twins but who have made a follow-up in their evolution in procedural legislation, the tax and administrative, in which the prosecutor is tending to be a little more backward and has been less receptive to the acceptance of measures already introduced in respect of administrative procedural legislation. Much of what we have here today is to embrace and accept these measures, which are simplifications, on the one hand, which reinforce the role and guarantees of the citizens — as the Minister mentioned recently — for example with regard to the obligations of the tax administration to base the impossibility of prescribing proceedings, or with regard to procedural defence by means of a single motion. These measures are fundamental so that the citizen can improve his or her relationship with the tax administration, a matter which calls very directly upon the citizens, and which is why we welcome as particularly positive. with regard to the CPTA, the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals, also seems to us that what we find here is a set of very relevant clarifications in relation to the amendments introduced in 2015, in particular those concerning the challenge of administrative rules, which resumes the possibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office to always be able to request the declaration of illegality with force of general obligation, the introduction or, better, the clarification of the matter of the suspensive effect within the pre-contractual dispute, the link that has already been mentioned between arbitration, through what is provided for in the Code of Public Contracts, and the administrative jurisdiction, as well as recognition of the importance of classification or identification of priority processes, which is one of those elements that, obviously not solving all the problems of the administrative courts, has the power to expedite, and much, the answers that this jurisdiction may give to the citizen. Finally, he also stressed that it is now even clearer that the importance of another legislative and administrative measure, which the Government has already introduced, which was the creation of the State Jurisdiction Centre, which has also reflected in this proposed amendment of the CPTA, and has reflected precisely making the processes both on the citizen's side and on the public authority's side easier and faster in this case the central administration of the State with which it is called to fight. Once again, our willingness to reform is complete, such as openness to discussion in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u37	To close the debate, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am very pleased to close this debate, in the conviction that it will be possible, from this moment on and in a relatively rapid manner, to find solutions to the problem which we are facing here today. I would like to tell you that the government has done a hard job, and I would say, without any self-assessment, a very complex and close work. First, we rejected the statistical data that did not exist four years ago in 2016. We then returned the process to the administrative and tax courts totally dematerialized in all instances. As for concerns with SITAF ( Information System of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ), we made 50 interventions in SITAF. We increased the size of the procedural pieces that SITAF houses, from 3 to 10 Mb. We have created single balconies that allow information and process to be obtained at a distance. We strengthened the frames in all instances and created a board of inspectors. This work began by being done by the Permanent Observatory of Justice. Then there was a working group that prepared the part of the joint, which was subject to public consultation. We held conferences throughout the country, involving all interested: judges, academia and interested third parties. It was a difficult but deeply scolded job. Obviously, you will have limitations here and there, but I trust the weighted judgment of VV. Ex. To overcome them. On two specific issues that were raised, the first of which on the expectations of the administrative courts, meant that in 2016 they were in fact 72 500, but in 2017 they returned to 71,000, and the procedural resolution rates are higher than 100 %, which did not happen before. I would also like to say that, of course, counsellors have to be integrated into the Council and on the part of the Government, we believe that the public system must be strengthened, but mediation and arbitration systems exist and, therefore, whenever the assumptions of mediation are found, the parties understand that they must go for mediation, I see no obstacle to this happening. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u39	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the second item on our agenda. We will begin the general assessment of the Bill No 169 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen the rights of suspected or accused minors in criminal proceedings by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 800. To present the bill, she has once again the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall be brief, because it seems that I have signed up today to be here in Parliament. [[Laughing.]] With this initiative, the Government submits to Parliament a proposal for an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, transposing to the domestic legal order a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 800 on procedural guarantees for juveniles in criminal proceedings. Basically, the Directive provides for a set of guarantees associated with the intervention of minors in the criminal proceedings as defendants and such guarantees are those associated with the right to information and the right to privacy, which are the two essential dimensions, in addition to the right to defender assistance. in the analysis we made of the proposal for a directive we found that many of the rights enshrined in it already existed in the Portuguese legal order, in particular at the level of criminal legislation for young adults and also at the level of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but still remained aspects of the directive that justified our intervention, shortcomings that were necessary to overcome. We therefore highlight five aspects that we have brought about in this bill. The first is the follow-up of the minor in procedural proceedings and, of course, the provision of information on the object of the process or the holder of parental responsibilities or an adult indicating the minor. The second aspect is that of the individual evaluation of the minor. The third is the limitation of third-party access to the self of the interrogation in which the minor intervenes as a defendant, as a fundamental corollary to the principle of the protection of the privacy of the minor. The fourth is the consecration of the urgent process of proceedings in which minors appear as defendants. The fifth aspect is that of the presumption of minority in cases where it is not possible, by any means, to determine the age of someone who is being constituted and there are serious reasons to think that he is under 18 years of age. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u41	I have the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Justice and Members of the Commission. Government Members : The proposed law now under discussion, which transposes Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 800 on procedural guarantees for minors suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, puts us before questions that are important to any state of democratic law. Children and minors who, even before completing their training as men and women with full rights and duties, have to respond under a criminal procedure require, on the part of the legislator, a specific, concrete response that allows greater monitoring by their parents, or those who have the care of parental responsibility, and the State, and who seek appropriate solutions for a life project, social reintegration and full development of their capacities. The exit door of the criminal system is too often difficult to find, especially for a minor, and this is a responsibility that cannot fall only on the minor. Appropriate support and follow-up measures are needed not only during the process but also after it. The bill here under discussion is in the right direction. Despite some aspects which may be changed in the field of specialty, if there is to be openness, the Left Block Parliamentary Group sees with good eye that it is enshrined in the Code of Criminal Procedure that the holders of parental responsibilities accompany him or her in the procedural proceedings to which he or she must appear, that he or she recognizes the right to all information relating to his or her rights and that it is also mandatory to request the report of the social reintegration services when it comes to a minor argument. These are positive solutions that walk in the right direction: to reduce the impact, sometimes irreversible, that a criminal process may have on the life of a young person or young person. however, these measures, which will deserve the favourable vote of this Parliamentary Group, do not exhaust as much as there is to do in this area, which is precisely what I have just said. It is urgent to find concrete answers that ensure the effectiveness of the reintegration projects of these young people into society and that the State assumes full responsibility and the challenge of minimizing the negative effects of these processes on young children. We are well aware that the stigmatizing effect of a criminal trial is very strong and that it creates, not rarely, major obstacles to the development of these young people and their full reintegration into society. Balance the need to investigate and judge with concrete measures of support, referral and protection, which help to train citizens and citizens with a future ahead, is the challenge we must not miss. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u43	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u44	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members: In November 2009 the Council adopted a resolution designed to outline a road map for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. This relevant road map was part of the Stockholm Programme — An open and secure Europe that serves and protects citizens. A set of directives has been adopted between 2010 and 2016, with a view to complying with that roadmap, and that is how Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 800 of the European Parliament and of the Council on procedural guarantees for minors suspected or accused in criminal proceedings emerged. With the proposed law, today, the Government is discussing a set of amendments that we will have to include in the Code of Criminal Procedure, with a view to implementing this Directive. This is a relevant instrument that applies to minors between the ages of 16 and 18 years and in fact establishes a set of minimum procedural guarantees common for these suspects or defendants to be able to understand and follow the process, thus exercising their right to a fair process, as well as to prevent recurrence and promote their social reintegration, taking into account the fact that we are before a group with specific needs in view of their age. The Portuguese legal system already receives a large majority of these common minimum rights and guarantees, either in the Code of Criminal Procedure or in the legal regime applicable to them, of 1982, but it is obviously necessary to walk further, we will take more steps towards strengthening these procedural guarantees and meeting some shortcomings or limitations of the system. This Parliamentary Group therefore sees, in fact, as a very positive set of guarantees that will be incorporated into the Code of Criminal Procedure: the monitoring of the child in procedural matters, either by the holders of parental responsibilities, legal representatives, a person who has his de facto custody or another adult of his or her trust, and that follow-up may even be referred to the specialist technician. We also see as very positive the obligation of information on the subject matter of the process and the procedural rights that assist the minor and the responsible adults; their individual assessment, which is fundamental in terms of social report, whose obligation is now inserted here; the presumption of minority of the defendant, when, in fact, as he said, there are uncertainties and reasons to believe that it is minor and, then, that presumption is guaranteed; the limitation of third party access to interrogation cars; and the urgent and continuous processing of these cases in which the minor is involved. Therefore, this is a set of securities that comes to provide the system with more guarantees and that will make it more robust in terms of protection of minors. in the speciality, we will obviously have all the openness to receive the contributions — which we have also received in writing from other entities — and beneficiaries who consider appropriate for the full incorporation of this act of the European Union. The resocialization capacity of the citizen is presumed necessary, especially when it is still at the threshold of his or her maturity. The criminal law of taxable young people is worthy of specific criminal treatment, which should, as far as possible, come closer to the principles and rules of juvenile re-educational law. Therefore, the strengthening of the rights and guarantees of persons under 18 years of age suspected or accused is worthy of our total adherence, our total confidence, to walk the right path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u45	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u46	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. Members: These measures that are proposed, of special protection for minors in criminal proceedings, are measures that we share because they seem fair to us. Indeed, in the area of criminal repression, the most effective, especially when we are dealing with young people, is to bet on resocialization, more than on repression, which is obviously necessary in criminal policy, but the objective must always be that of resocialization and, particularly when we are talking about young people, that objective is of added importance. In the Portuguese legal order it is not unpublished a criminal regime for the protection of young people: it was approved, following the adoption of the Penal Code in 1982, with respect to young people up to 21 years of age. in this case, in this legislative initiative, which provides for special measures for the protection of young children, i.e. up to 18 years old— between 16 years old, when criminal liability begins, and 18 years old, when reaching the civilian majority, a set of measures for the follow-up of minors is proposed, namely: the need to have a legal representative of the juvenile in criminal proceedings, be the holder of parental responsibilities, be another legal representative; the obligation to inform minors about their procedural rights; the prohibition of access by third parties to juvenile interrogation cars; the urgent processing of juvenile proceedings, even if there are no accused prisoners. So here is a set of measures that seem to us to go, in fact, in the positive sense of defending minors in criminal proceedings and that effectively aim at resocialization objectives, which is what is fundamental in criminal policy, when we are referring to people who have a whole life in front of them and who are intended to be able to effectively change their lives, resociate themselves and not incur relapses that lead them to permanent contact with the courts and prisons. These measures are therefore in a positive sense and, of course, they can only merit our agreement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u47	Mr Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I welcome the Minister of Justice. With regard to this proposal, although there is already in our legal system the special scheme for young adults, which comprises young people between 16 and 21 years of age — in fact, up to a longer period of time — we believe that this increase in the protection of minors between 16 and 18 years of age, which comes following the transcription of the directive, is important and is a positive sign. Until, as the criminal order is the last ratio of the one who should be the contact of a young person with the legal order, it is very important that at an early stage there is a special protection of this young person, so that the resocialization and the minimization measures, let us say, of this contact be completed, as soon as possible, and that it can often, unfortunately, be faced with paths always outside of legality, our legal order and respect for existing standards. Having said this, the follow-up of the legal representative, the very important secrecy of the process involving a minor, the urgency of the processes, even if there are no prisoners, like what has already happened in the promotion and protection processes, so that everything is faster and we do not have the young person, with his life project, conditioned by any criminal process or by a criminal investigation, as well as the social report, all this seems important to us. They seem to us to be measures in a positive sense that allow us to evolve within a regime that has already been followed in Portugal. however, we also regret that in this proposal, concerning a directive that has to do with defendants and suspects, when it comes to a minor suspect, nothing. However, we know that, often before the stage of the constitution of the defendant, we have the phase of suspicion and that, when it is suspected, we have prior processes, preliminary to the investigation investigations, where, often, in the reality of our courts, there are the so-called "informal conversations", there are the evidences. And nothing prevents, in an investigation, agents from convoking and informal conversation with young people who may be in this situation, between the ages of 16 and 18, and who do not have any legal protection in this proposal. However, it seems to us that this is a little bit the idea of the Council and the European Commission directive. We therefore consider it important that, in the field of expertise, enlargement and improvement of this proposal should also be considered by the suspects. I know, and we all know, that the figure of the 'argued' is a very our figure of the Portuguese legal order, but the'suspect' also exists and it is important that these young people are protected, before they are read the rights, at a stage where they are even more vulnerable than after the defendants, a condition in which they already have an informal defender or a mandated lawyer, and cannot make statements alone. It is very important that the suspect is also protected and, therefore, we hope that this proposal can be improved, until it is already a step in the right way, but it can be an opportunity for it to improve in everything that is necessary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u49	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister of Justice: This initiative, as we have seen during the debate, generates a very large degree of consensus throughout the House and in all the benches and, therefore, we will not be the dissonant note, nor would there be any way we could be. We had the opportunity to disagree, vastly, this morning, on other matters, Mrs Minister, so it would not be now, from the afternoon, that we would disagree on a subject that is consensual. from the point of view of the CDS, the criminal system, with regard, above all, to minors, must always have a primary function, which is obviously that of their reintegration and resocialization, that of diverting precisely that criminal system, but also has a preventive effect. And, for us, it is very important that we also need to be demanding, in terms of criminal matters, with regard to minors, because we will be able to move them away from a process of growth in a life linked to crime. This matter is widely dealt with in our Criminal Code and in our Code of Criminal Procedure—and indeed, even this proposal, as well as the directive itself, do not bring great innovation in relation to what we already have in our Codes—but we can make some improvements, from a guaranteed point of view, because it is clear that, especially when we think of minors, the guarantees have to be there and are of greatest relevance. That is why I would say that the guarantees relating, from the outset, to information, to the involvement of parents or guardians throughout the process — if they are not the parents to have responsibility — can accompany them, be with them, have access to, for example, the information of the constitution as a defendant and all the essential elements of the process, translate, as is evident, into an important improvement and deserve our agreement. Just to finish, Mrs Minister, I would like to tell you that, despite the title referring to suspected and accused minors, the subject concerned essentially concerns defendants and not so much suspects. It will therefore be necessary, perhaps, to make an improvement here, because I do not think that the title is absolutely strict. On the other hand, I would also like to read out the recommendations of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, and I would also like to say that there are those recommendations, in particular with regard to the non-inclusion of the social report in the mandatory elements and the information note, to the holders of parental responsibilities, as regards the constitution of the defendant, some improvements that may be introduced in the bill. The diploma is obviously a consensual diploma and will be brought down to committee. Our willingness in the committee will be to see whether or not there is a possibility of some improvements, but, of course, we agree, especially with the concern that minors, when confronted with the criminal system, should deserve the best and the greatest guarantees. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u51	To close this debate, the Government has the floor, through the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the consensus that was also possible to form around this proposal. I think she was necessarily consensual. The subjects in question here are subjects, I would say, almost civilization. Our concern with minors is common, with knowledge and information on their procedural situation, this idea is also common, that the minor, when presented in court, in criminal proceedings, should be accompanied by an adult and that the family or its legal representatives should be aware of what is happening is, indisputably, fundamental, such as the social report, because it allows monitoring and avoids recurrence. I have only one difficulty that will be analyzed when the proposal goes to the specialty: today, we do not have the category of suspect in the procedural subjects and, therefore, there is a mistake in the title. We have the category of defendant, but we have ceased to have the category of suspect and, therefore, the reference in the fundamental text is in fact to the defendant, because that is the procedural subject that the Code of Criminal Procedure has accepted. The suspect category was a little discarded. Therefore, while you realize what Mrs Emília Cerqueira means, when she says there may be a time when the minor suspect is not yet accused, but it may come to be, it seems to me that, in this case, her only chance is to require the constitution as a defendant to have all their rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u53	We will move on to the fourth item on our agenda, with the general appreciation of the Bill No 170 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs permitted uses of works for the benefit of blind persons by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1564 and describes the unauthorized public execution of commercially edited phonograms and videograms. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca, whom I wish for a good year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President, a good year for you and all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. This proposal, which we are discussing here, aims to amend the system of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights on two different aspects. On the one hand, the transposition into the internal legal order of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain works and other material protected by copyright and related rights for the benefit of blind persons with visual impairment or other difficulties in accessing printed texts amending Directive ( EU ) 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. On the other hand, a second aspect of this proposal which is being discussed today is the amendment to the regime applicable to the violation and defence of copyright and related rights, providing that the communication not authorized to the public, directly or indirectly, of phonograms and videograms commercially edited, ceases to constitute a crime of usurpation, moving these facts to be punishable as unlawful counter-order national. As regards the first point, this amendment follows the possibility of a set of specially accredited entities, without the need to obtain authorization from rightholders, to convert printed works into formats accessible to blind persons or with visual difficulties, promoting democratic, free and equal access, at the same time safe and structured, to literary creation and hence to culture. As regards the second point, this is an amendment which has long been claimed by different entities linked to the economy, tourism and restoration, which, over time, have brought their concerns about this. in this regard, it was possible — and I stress this fact — to obtain the generalized announcement of the collective management entities representing the rightholders, building, we believe, a balanced regime, which counters decriminalisation a clear incentive to licensing and, therefore, allows, in a timely and more effective way, to ensure respect for intellectual property in this area, more effectively and also more friendly to the economy. In fact, the generality of the organisations representing rights holders and users is reflected in this diploma and it was thus possible to find a very important consensus. A final note to point out that, on the issue discussed here today, of decriminalization, in our perspective, this is the vector and the fundamental core of this regime and it is a historic and rare consensus between the generality of the representatives of rights holders and users, which should not in any way be neglected in this discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u55	Mrs. Members, he asked the various parliamentary groups to make their registrations, because at the moment the Bureau only records the registration of the Social Democratic Party. In representing the PSD, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u56	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Culture, Mrs. Members: The subject which is here under consideration, in particular with regard to the legalization of the use of works protected by copyright, for the benefit of the blind, persons with visual impairment or other difficulties in accessing printed texts, which is only one of the components of this bill, naturally deserves our agreement. It deserves our agreement and, including, the PSD Parliamentary Group applauds this initiative, which we consider to be another step in the realization of the rights of people with disabilities, their effective autonomy and social inclusion. in this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, we will always agree. As the Minister here has said, well, all this is in line with the directives of the European Union which are now being transposed into the Portuguese legal system and are also in line with the international conventions on this subject, in particular the Marrakesh Treaty, which entered into force on 1 January 2019, and which specifically provides for this matter. But this one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only part of the legislative intervention that this bill intends to make. In addition, in the same diploma, the Government proposes to decriminalise the unauthorized public communication of commercially edited phonograms and videograms, which had so far criminal protection, establishing the government, alternatively, a counter-ordering regime. And this is where our doubts and disagreements reside. Copyright, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a fundamental right, constitutionally protected, and we have doubts whether its effective protection is ensured with the institution of a counter-ordering regime, the regime, which, in the present proposal, will be carried out by the General Inspection of Cultural Activities ( IGAC ), which we believe to know, Mrs and Mrss. Members, in this year of 2019, there is no increase in funds corresponding to the increase in their competences. The IGAC, which will be responsible for the implementation of this counter-ordering regime, does not have a strengthening of funds in the State budget for 2019 to meet these new powers that the Government assigns to it. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will understand that our doubts are being addressed and we will be here to see whether the Government will effectively provide the IGAC with the means necessary for it to make effective monitoring and to translate a suitable preventive solution to the protection of copyright, thus justifying this option of the Government to decriminalise. Be alert that, without any means, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the protection of these rights is effectively compromised. Then there is a procedural issue here which, of course, deserves our repair. The Government had a legislative authorization to legislate on this subject exactly, the Government obtained this legislative authorization from the Assembly of the Republic, it had...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u57	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the Government obtained this legislative authorization from the Assembly of the Republic, it had 90 days for it to present a decree of law and did not. The Government has not been diligent, it has not been competent, now coming to ask the Assembly of the Republic to do what the Government has no power to do. Mr President, here is the repair that we do not consider this institutional relationship between the Government and the Assembly of the Republic to be correct. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u59	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u60	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Culture, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, my compliments. Mrs Minister, putting aside the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1564, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017, which establishes the permitted use of works for the benefit of blind people who make the whole sense—we have absolutely nothing to oppose in this matter—I mean that this is a completely heated debate. And it's a heated debate, why? It is a heated debate because it brings to the discussion what the government did not have the ability to do with the legislative authorization that this House gave it in November 2017. That is why, Madam Minister, this debate gives all the reason for the criticism we made at the time when we discussed the Bill No 102 / XIII / 4. a. In fact, the decriminalization of the unauthorized public execution of phonograms and videograms which was discussed here at that time was a discussion that brought us some doubts. at that time, we said that the government was asking for a blank check to this House to legislate on the matter and that we had many difficulties in passing blank checks to this government. I recall the words of Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, who said, with mild anger, rejecting our refusal to pass blank checks to the government, who, and I quote, «the check was virtually all filled out». Do you remember, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u61	Now, now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u62	Well, it was! After all, the cheque was even blank, as the CDS said at the time, and the government admits that because the legislative authorization has expired again because « some doubts have been raised that justify a different approach, so as to avoid decriminalizing any primary uses and thus decriminalizing only and only secondary uses ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u63	I mean, they didn't think about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u64	Therefore, you have come to request a legislative authorization from this House, without knowing very well what you wanted, you have not done anything with this legislative authorization, you have repudiated the allegations of the CDS, that this was done on your knee and that we had no blank checks, and now, after all, they have come to give us all the right. Now, we don't even know what the government's mobile is and what it wants. In addition, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and we also said it at the time, but I repeat now that this amendment meant that the IGAC, which is going to monitor all this, had means, but the IGAC did not have them at that time, and will not have them in the future, because, with the State budget that we adopted, very recently, in this House — we, no, but most approved it — no more means were given to the IGAC for these powers. Knowing that this is a delicate matter and that obviously lacks supervision, because if we do not have a bigger problem in our hands, it is clear that this cannot go unnoticed, Mrs Minister. Therefore, if there is no strengthening of IGAC means or it is expected that there will come soon, this is a lame solution, which will allow all sorts of abuse and that the CDS obviously refuses to follow. So, Minister, what we are asking you to consider this strategy well and see what you want to do in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u65	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u66	Finally, Mr President, saying that the CDS is available to discuss the matter, but it is not available for this to be done without means and in any way lame, which can harm what, after all, if it wants to benefit. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u67	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u68	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Culture, Mr Secretary of State and Mr Ladies and gentlemen: Let's go to parties. This legislative initiative has two components, moreover, three, but I would say that there are two that deserve our special attention, one of which concerns disabled citizens, blind people or visually impaired people, with regard to access to printed texts. It is obvious that the PCP has been struck by removing the obstacles that are impeding on these people and, therefore, of course, we welcome and support any measures to facilitate the access of the blind to these books or other materials. He wants to seem to us that this part is absolutely consensual. Then there is another component that actually has to do with a legislative initiative that was discussed here in this House in 2017. In this respect, it is important to remember, first of all, that this legislative process has been delayed in an unjustified way in this House. In other words, a legislative authorization was introduced, for which, in particular by the PSD, there were at that time a number of mis-managed criticisms, which caused it to go down to the committee without having been voted on. Supposedly, amendments should have been tabled by those who criticized the proposal for legislative authorisation. Although, of course, the decree was annexed, it was expected that several amendments would appear, but did not appear. Therefore, this proposal for legislative authorisation remained in committee for a few months and then returned to the plenary, as it had been sent down to the committee. The aim was essentially to decriminalize a set of behaviors, a set of wrongful acts, but it was considered that this was more effective if they were subject to a counter-ordering regime than to criminal sanctions. It was considered that this was the most effective and so it was done. Simply put, the question that arises — and this has already been addressed here — is that changing the criminal law regime for counter-ordering is part of the principle that there is effectiveness in the application of this regime. That was supposed to be the objective, i.e., the adoption of a counter-ordering regime was more effective. The problem is that if there are no means to carry out such supervision, then neither one thing nor the other, in that case, by criminal or counter-ordinary means. And in this debate attention should be drawn to this. Clearly, from the point of view of principles and effectiveness, the counter-ordering regime seems to us to be better. from that we think that this legislative process, by reaffirming that path, is on the right track. But of course, it must be ensured that there is effective enforcement of the counter-ordering regime and that we want to believe that the Assembly of the Republic, in this legislative process, which is no longer an authorization process but a material legislative process, with a proposal for a material law, has to establish a process of dialogue with entities which are in the hands of the mass, i.e. with entities who deal daily with this type of problem, so that legislative measures are adopted and then practical measures are effective. This, in order not to be legislating, condemns the regime approved for ineffectiveness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u69	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u70	Mr. President, I will finish. We hope that this is not the case and therefore we want to affirm here our commitment to this process so that it will finally be concluded and that there will indeed be a fight against 'piracy' — this is what is usually called — by adopting a regime that is actually effective and does not lead to any impunity that no one wants. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u71	For an intervention, Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u72	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Culture, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: Let's go over this episode a little bit loaded from a right that was against a blank check, but then the check is returned and the right says you don't want to use that same check. It's a little cartoony thing, but let's go over it. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Vania Dias da Silva.]] There are two aspects that need to be stressed: the first is that the first part of the initiative we are discussing today refers us to the need to complete or give effectiveness to measures of non-discrimination and equality with policies of positive discrimination in favour of those who must effectively be the holder of rights, as is the case. This initiative is welcome, because it precisely extends the scope of the effectiveness of rights for those people who, because of their physical conditions, cannot exercise them under the same conditions as the generality of the citizens. Therefore, this part of the legislative initiative that is proposed to us here clearly deserves our agreement, our applause, because it goes in the right direction to complete the formal non-discrimination with material discrimination favourable to those who need it. Secondly, we follow the theory that when a counter-ordinary regime can be equally or even more effective than a criminal sanctions regime, we must opt for a counter-ordinary regime, as long as that guarantee is effectively ensured. That is exactly what we are dealing with when we discuss this scenario of decriminalization, because it is obviously very important to safeguard the rights of artists, authors, creators, who may remain in check—to use an expression that has already been used here—that is, that may be impaired, if there is no guarantee of effective action in the application of counter-ordinations. I am convinced that, in particular, we will be able to find the most appropriate mechanisms and drafting to ensure that this guarantee is fully established and that we can take this step, as long as there is effectiveness in the performance of the Administration to sanction irregular practices, it is a step that deserves to be taken. We therefore follow this initiative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u73	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u74	Mr President, Minister for Culture, I greet you and wish you a good year. I begin with the point that apparently is the only one that is contentious in this debate and that concerns how the House views the legislative authorizations it gives to the Government. I reiterate that there are no blank cheques in the legislative authorisations, insofar as, annexed to the legislative authorisation, the decree is in fact authorizing, detailing, i.e. filling the check, to use the analogy of Mrs Deputy. That is what this House has discussed and on which it has authorized the Government to legislate. It is also important to bear in mind that, in the process of promulgating the proposed authorisation law, Mr President of the Republic stressed the importance of finding the best possible balance for the construction of a legal regime in this area, and that is exactly what the Government here today does! It is also strange that the House rejects the government's view of respect for the House, giving it the last word and the possibility to legislate more quickly. In fact, it is 'perplexing' that the desire to cooperate with Parliament which the Government demonstrates is the subject of criticism by the parties which have made the same reparation. in the rest — as Mr José Manuel Pureza said — the choice for decriminalization is a rational option, an option that corresponds to the idea that criminal law is the ultimate ratio. Criminal law is something that is used when, in fact, it is the most appropriate instrument to safeguard the protection of a legal good, but it itself penalises other legal goods. from there the proposed regime: a counter-ordinary regime, a regime with incentives to deter illegal practices and a legal regime — which, within the framework of this discussion in the specialty, we can of course improve, including with the hearing of the various entities that continue to show reservations and that may have divergent opinions — still more balanced than today not only does it prove effective as it goes too far in the choice of the way and the protection of criminal matters. This legislative initiative is also important—and so I would like to stress this particular aspect—so it brings, in the first place, the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1564. There, yes, we have an opportunity to implement a legal system of recognition, not only of good will or ad hoc solutions to solve the problem of people with disabilities who have difficulty in accessing printed works, but who effectively enshrines a right in the Copyright Code so that these people can access the texts, which otherwise would not be able to consult, without depending on kindness or sudden circumstance. It is therefore a simple amendment which adds to Article 75. that of the Copyright Code the prediction that this is a free use with a sufficiently detailed regime to make clear what the concepts are; who are the persons who qualify and who can therefore be authorized to benefit from this scheme, who are the entities who can assist them in this task and, finally, define what uses are permitted in this framework, always protecting the position of the authors and balancing the various parties. Obviously, there is no commercial exploitation at stake, it is, of course, the guarantee of non-discrimination and the guarantee of a fundamental right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u75	To close the debate, Mr. Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to say, as a final note — and taking in Mr Pedro Delgado Alves' last speech — that what happened during this process was respect for the legislative process, as envisaged in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. In fact, Mr President of the Republic has made amends on the occasion of the promulgation of the diploma and it was on the basis of those amendments that the Government has chosen — in our view, well! — by examining them and bringing this amendment to us today, which seems to us to be balanced. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this final intervention, I would just like to highlight one aspect which seems to me to be the most relevant of all: as I said in the initial intervention, it is very important to highlight the agreement, consensus, balance or meeting point that was possible between all the entities throughout this process so that the Commission's work should take this into account. In fact, the decriminalisation in question is the balanced and sure way that brings together the entity's agreement and that will allow us to have a more balanced regime in Portugal, probably more protective of copyright. The counter-ordinary regime which is proposed here allows us to understand it. On the question of capacity, we will be here to ensure that, after the approval of this new regime, it exists to ensure that copyright is protected, but also to ensure that, from the point of view of the operation of companies and the economy, we have a simpler and more friendly regime of economic activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u77	With this intervention by the Minister, the general debate of the Proposal for a Law No 170 / XIII / 4 is closed. a. We moved to point five, with the appreciation of Petition No 467 / XIII / 3. a ( National Federation of Teachers - FENPROF ) — Requests the conclusion of a collective contract of work for private and cooperative education that complies with the provisions of the Basic Law and the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education. For an intervention, you have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, I welcome all the signatory petitioners who subscribe to this petition, which aims to promote a legislative amendment to Decree-Law No 152 / 2013, which approves the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education of a non-superior level. For FenPROF and for all signatory petitioners, this Statute does not fully regulate the working conditions of teachers working in private and cooperative education. Some of the principles contained in the Basic Law and the Statute itself, according to the petitioners, are not being fulfilled. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Labour relations in private and cooperative educational establishments are governed by private law. Precisely, the new Statute establishes pedagogical autonomy for schools. This autonomy constitutes a right to adopt their own decisions in the fields of training offer, curriculum management, educational programs and activities, evaluation, guidance and monitoring of students, formation of classes, management of school spaces and times and management of teaching staff. The Ministry of Education has, as we know, a role focused on regulating and monitoring the fulfilment of obligations entered into in the various contracts established and in the various contractual arrangements between it and private and cooperative schools. The subject of the working conditions of private and cooperative teachers is objectively left by law to the collective autonomy that collective representatives can freely negotiate in the light of labour rules. As we know, they have done so, although not entirely. FENPROF has not signed the relevant collective contract. The Socialist Party, defending dialogue and collective bargaining, believes that the solution should be found in social consultation but naturally accompanies the concern about the working conditions of all workers who are at the service of education. Moreover, the appreciation of all teachers has been a desire assumed by this government in the construction of a public education of quality and inclusive, where the Ministry of Education has been present and recognizes the enormous importance of the work performed by all its professionals. The Socialist Party, here in the Assembly of the Republic, will also be the guarantor of this appreciation, recognition and continuous articulation with all the agents involved in the pursuit of all measures to value education and all its professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u79	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss Petition No 467 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) by a collective contract of work for private, cooperative, artistic and professional education that respects the Basic Law and the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education, led by FENPROF, to whom we welcome democratically. The petition stems from the signing in July 2017 of a collective contract of work between the National Confederation of Education and Training, which brings together more than 600 employers, and all — I repeat, all! — the 12 teaching unions, comprising 20 000 teachers, who were in this negotiation, with the exception of FenPROF. It is FENPROF that, having rejected this agreement which has been reached in its own context and due to social consultation, Parliament has been asked to replace this forum to make a new collective contract of work which establishes conditions for these teachers who are identical to teachers in public education. The same conditions as FENPROF have been criticising! The CDS does not follow this petition for three reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u81	What news!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u82	First, we do not substitute for social consultation; first, we respect the understanding reached for the first time between 600 employers of private, cooperative, professional and specialized arts and 12 trade unions. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Secondly, teachers of private and cooperative education have, through this collective contract of work, higher real salaries than those of their colleagues in state education,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u83	Here, here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u84	...from then on because their salaries were not frozen. It is not reasonable for us that the Assembly of the Republic to worsen its working conditions. Thirdly, the only reason to make sense of convergence between these careers would be if this position were full. That is, if in the national competition, for example, private education teachers could compete in equal circumstances with public education teachers. We know that this does not happen, they compete on a lower priority, and, moreover, it happens with the support of FENPROF. It is not the patronage, but rather the State, with the support of FENPROF, which negatively discriminates against these professionals. It is therefore unwise to ask Parliament to take a position which the petitioners themselves do not take fully. We find it strange that, in the current context, in matters of hours and careers, there is so much dispute on the part of FENPROF with the employer, which is the State, that FENPROF intends to bring to this turbulence of teaching injustices that so far are safe from them. Therefore, in our understanding, there seems to be no material or formal reason to support what this petition seeks. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u85	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners: It is imperative that society needs good teachers. It is imperative that, by action or, before, by inaction of the State, there is a degradation of the teaching condition, so it is urgent to create measures to enhance the profession of educator and teacher. Unfortunately, thinking about the future is something this government does not do!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u88	in the process of trying to mask the fact that it failed to fulfil its commitments, the government uses communication strategies that configure blackmail and manipulation of public opinion and instrumentalizes teachers with negotiating farces. This delapidation of the public image of teachers has further aggravated the difficulties of private and cooperative teachers. The fact that private and cooperative schools are being the target of an unprecedented political attack, most of the time unjustifiable, led to the closure of good educational projects and educational establishments, pushed for unemployment many teachers and employees and overburdened their teachers in many public schools, to whom everything is required.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u90	I said all this—it's not too much! — it is now necessary to address the question of the specific petition. For us, the question of social consultation is clear. the information we have, it has evolved in this context, reaching an agreement with the majority of trade unions in a collective bargaining negotiation. We also have information that the petitioning entity maintains a negotiating table in that headquarters and we do not ignore that many of the ideological measures that this government has carried out have resulted in complex restructuring processes in many private and cooperative schools. We also do not ignore that the recent change in the diploma of teachers' contests carried out by the government has put the teachers of this type of teaching to the last priority, but we think that it is in this venue of social consultation that this union should undertake all its efforts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u92	I finish with the certainty that for PSD there are no first teachers and second teachers, there are no first students and second students. We will continue to contribute to fair and balanced solutions that enable the correction of injustices to citizens, taking into account the current political framework. I add that we are seriously thinking about the teaching condition, because we know that without this reflection the country has no future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u93	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners of this petition we are debating today in the Assembly of the Republic. Secondly, I leave a note of perplexity for what the PSD has brought us. Who today heard the CDS and the PSD talk about the rights of teachers and teachers, of teaching careers—not only in relation to this matter, but also in relation to teachers of the public—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u95	Take your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u96	...not only would I say that they are sitting on a register of attacks on workers' rights, not only of the public, but also of the teachers, but also of the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u97	Take your responsibilities! They're on 4th. The Legislative Session!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u98	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State and governments are directly responsible for civil servants, but this does not mean that they are irresponsible for labour rights and for the existence of collective bargaining that guarantees the rights of all workers and all workers. Collective bargaining is, indeed, a matter of public interest and on which Parliament and the governments must pronounce themselves. The Left Block has always defended a harmonisation of labour rights between the public and the private, which is always made in the principle of more favourable treatment, so that, for the same function, for the same work and for the same profession, there are equal rights, and that these rights are always harmonised by those who have the most rights, for those who have more access to labour rights. in the case of education, this harmonisation makes more sense and is even more necessary, because education is, in any circumstance, an important matter, constitutional, public service and therefore the conditions of teachers, also in private education, concern everyone and everyone, concerning the subject of education and the quality of education in the country. What is not normal is that those who wanted and who here defended private education, telling the State to finance the private business instead of the public school or that, in the best case, it would be up to the State to finance private education and public school equally, then, when it comes to negotiating labour rights of private teachers, they do not think that the same criterion applies. Therefore, they admitted to financing, through association contracts, private businesses without applying to private school teachers the same rules and labour rights that existed in public education. The equality between the private and the public was only for the transfer and income of private businesses. For the rights of workers, this equality no longer existed. contrary to what the right says, our concern is another. Our concern is, on the one hand, the rights of work, on the other hand, the quality of education.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u99	That has always been our priority!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u100	over time, we have been receiving complaints about wages, about schedules — even on late wages in these private schools and excessive working hours — about low wages and a poor access to careers and progressions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u101	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u102	This is serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u103	Grave is talking about quality and not knowing what's going on in the field!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u104	It is more serious in the case of association contracts, in which it is the State to finance these labour rights that are violated or disabled, but it is also serious in any circumstances. The Left Block commits itself to the principle of the approximation of teachers' careers in private and public education, because teachers are required the same duties and, therefore, they must be granted the same rights, in fact, as was foreseen in the statute that the right changed in 2013 to harm teachers and benefit from the business of private colleges. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u105	You now have the floor on behalf of the PCP, Mrs. Angela Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP, I begin by welcoming FENPROF for the fight to defend the rights of private and cooperative teachers and all teachers of private and cooperative education who are currently in the galleries to attend this debate. [[PCP applause.]] The problem that this petition brings to the debate in the Assembly of the Republic is the last amendment to the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education, which the CFP did not follow, because we were aware that with this new decree-law, the result of the PSD Government and the CDS-PP, what was intended to favour private school and the rights of private and cooperative teachers. at the time, the CFP required parliamentary review of the decree, having submitted concrete amendments, but, as expected, were rejected. The reality confirmed that the PCP was right. Since the entry into force of this Decree-Law in 2013 these teachers have seen their working conditions worsen violently. To speak of the professional situation of these teachers, so far, is synonymous with instability, professional devaluation, low wages, increased working hours and all this, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not positive signs either for education or for the country. The disrespect of successive governments by private and cooperative teachers reflects the most general attack on workers' rights, in their dignity and living conditions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The struggle of these teachers is more than just. The CFP follows the proposals presented in the petition under discussion and which are possible only with a change to the current statute, in particular, with an amendment to the article concerning teachers, which discriminates private teachers against those of the public. Without this amendment, this Statute is a backwardness for the teaching career of private and cooperative education, which allowed the conclusion of a collective contract of work with the UGT ( General Workers' Union ), which becomes more serious than the Labour Code itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u108	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u109	But it does not have to be that way and the proof is that FenPROF has already signed company agreements with various entities, guaranteeing the rights which the collective labour contract has stolen from them. The CFP has always been committed to defending the interests and rights of teachers. The dignity and responsibility of teaching, as well as working conditions, must be ensured. For this reason, the CFP has presented a bill that translates the demands of these workers, proposing that they progressively move towards harmonization and similarity between the teaching career of private education and that of public education, ensuring that the rights of teachers of private education are not questioned. This bill presents proposals for amendment to the article concerning teachers, in accordance with the Law of Basics of Special and Cooperative Education, and goes towards the dignity and professional valorization of teachers of private education, through the strengthening of their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u110	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u111	I will finish, Mr. President. Private and cooperative teachers are not alone in this struggle, in this fair claim, so they can rely on the support of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u112	The PSD also wishes to make a new intervention. Mr Pedro Pismão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate I would like to make a small correction to the speech of Mrs Joana Mortagua of the Left Block. Mr Deputy was very concerned about the quality of education and spoke about the equality between teachers of public and private education. It is interesting to realize in this debate that this quality was not evaluated when they closed educational projects in our country, regardless of whether they are public or private,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u115	... to be private and cooperative or public schools stricto sensu. This assessment should have been made, because educational projects were completed at many points in this territory, whose quality is undeniable and with benefit to the populations, who were deprived of access to education in their territories, indiscriminately. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u116	We thus close point five of the order of business, with the appreciation of Petition No 467 / XIII / 3. a. We move on to the sixth and last point, which is from the discussion of Petition No 444 / XIII / 3. a (Cyprian Justo et al.) — They request the revision of the Health Bases Act. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the promoters of this petition, as well as almost 5000 people who have associated with it and who ask the Assembly of the Republic to review the Basics Law, the creation of a new health-based law. We agree on this objective. There must indeed be a new law of health bases in Portugal and it is not a mere rush of modernity or modernization of the current Basics Law. It is that the current Basics Act, 1990, of the PSD, which had the agreement and favorable vote of the CDS-PP, is one of the main problems of the National Health Service ( SNS ). It was she who instituted competition between the private and the public, which so weakened the National Health Service ; it opened the door to the delivery of hospitals to private management, thus opening the door to public-private partnerships ; it says, well, that the State has an obligation to create incentives to private business in health, making a bleed of those who are public resources, withdrawing them from the National Health Service to feed economic groups operating in the field of health. The 1990 Basics Act is indeed one of the main problems that needs to be solved today. With the current Basic Law, there was indeed a bleeding of the number of professionals and budgets: EUR 500 million for public-private partnerships, which should be in the SNS ; EUR 1200 million for complementary means of diagnosis and other conventions, which should be invested in the SNS. There needs to be a new basic law. Yesterday, we watched, even with great curiosity, a race between the PSD and the CDS-PP in order to see who was more rapidly defending the interests of the private in health, in presenting their proposals for the basic law. Nothing new on the PSD and CDS-PP horizons, which continue to view health as a business. Therefore, the proposals that were presented yesterday and that will lead to the discussion do not really matter to the National Health Service. It is interesting, yes, to understand the Socialist Party's position on this matter and it was good for you to take advantage of today's debate to clarify the matter. It is because the Socialist Party cannot « give one on the nail and another on the irony», i.e. it cannot have a bill for a basic law that says that the management of the institutions of the SNS should be public but then announce the contest for a new public-private partnership in Braga, or then say that it wants a basic law that strengthens the National Health Service but then hear its parliamentary leader say that without an extended agreement there will be no law of bases. So how is that agreement with the PSD? It is that the PSD proposal only deepens the current problems. It's good for the PS to say here today how this stays. at this moment, as you know, and I conclude, Mr President, there is a proposal from the Left Block that solves and that responds to most of the problems that attack the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u118	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. What was important to hear today, here, mainly from the Socialist Party, is whether to follow the left in order to save the National Health Service or whether to support the right in order to deepen the problems that attack the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u120	You have the floor on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners here present and all those who have signed this petition, which seeks to review the Health Bases Act. As mentioned in the text, petitioners do not intend with this initiative to present a basic health law, only indicate the parameters to be taken into account in a review of Law No. 48 / 90, which is referred to as the “Health Bases Law”. They therefore intend, among other aspects, that the Basic Law should focus on health promotion and disease prevention, that a clear commitment should be made to public health and that health should be in all policies. with regard to health workers, they defend the existence of careers for all professions both in the public sector and in the private sector. For the SNS, petitioners pose changes to planning, financing and also to the organization, as well as defend the clear separation between the public sector and the private sector. For the PCP, the questions raised by the petitioners are relevant and of great relevance, especially at a time when an intense offensive is taking place against the National Health Service, which had yesterday, with the presentation of the initiatives of the PSD and the CDS, another sad episode, which clearly shows which side are the PSD and the CDS-PP regarding health and the National Health Service. They are as they have always been: not on the side of the defense of the National Health Service, its professionals and public management, but, on the contrary, always in favor of the privatization of the SNS, of the promiscuity between the public sector and the private sector and the health business, I look forward to the PCP repudiating, clearly expressing its opposition to the initiatives presented yesterday by these two parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u122	What the PCP defends and which is contained in the bill, already handed over to the Assembly of the Republic and which will be discussed next day 23 is clearly a breach with the policy that the right has followed in health and in the National Health Service. in our bill, we defend, intransigently, the right to health, the National Health Service, in particular its founding principles — general, universal and free — and, of course, its public management, as well as the clear separation between the public sector and the private sector, attributing to it an additional character. Yes, we are in favour of the end of PPPs (public-private partnerships ), EPE entities ( business public entities) and moderate rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u124	Our proposal clearly foresees the planning of human resources and their valorisation, as well as the planning of the technological and financial means, based on the identified needs, being allocated funds from the State budget for this purpose. Our proposal also states that health policy is defined, based on a transdisciplinary approach, being health at the heart of all policies. The proposal submitted by the CFP, which will be discussed on the 23rd day, designates that it is the State which is responsible for financing, regulating and providing health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u125	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u126	I will finish, Mr. President. It is a proposal that clearly guarantees the constitutional right to health, safeguards and strengthens the National Health Service, instead of other proposals that we already have knowledge, which instead weakens the National Health Service and attacks the right to health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u127	On behalf of the PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u128	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating you, as well as the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, we discuss Petition No 444 / XIII / 3. a, subscribed to by almost 5000 Portuguese, which I have already welcomed. in this petition, it is requested to review the current Health Bases Act, approved in 1990 and with almost three decades of existence, which proves that it was a law appropriate to the development of our health system and, in particular, to the National Health Service. Several governments have passed and the Law has been maintained. During this long period, reality has evolved: new phenomena and challenges have emerged, the happy achievement of a higher average life expectancy, a drastic reduction of birth, the evolution of science and technology, new rights and needs that a health-based law should contemplate, for example, the case of informal caregiver status. According to the petitioners, after 27 years, a new view of health is needed. For the happiness of people, a good health service is crucial, so the PSD is very motivated to make its contribution. at the beginning of this week, we presented a bill that aims to review the current Health Bases Act, whose parliamentary debate is marked for January 23, which means that the petitioners' objective is under way. The PSD hopes that this process, now initiated, will be geared towards the adoption of a balanced, plural law and that it will put people first.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u130	We hope that consensus will be generated that will improve the lives of the Portuguese people. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be deceived or deceived by the Portuguese. A basic law is not a small rule, a basic law does not, on its own, solve the serious problems of access with which the Portuguese are faced. Today, we have over 200 Portuguese on the waiting list for surgery, there are patients who wait more than one year for a hospital specialty consultation, public investment in the SNS in these three years was less than 2015, services are degraded, professionals demotivated, users increasingly abandoned. According to the audit by the Court of Auditors, published yesterday, the debt of SNS to suppliers and creditors increased 52 % in three years, increased EUR 1000 million in 2017 compared to 2014. The financial flow of the State to the SNS decreased by around EUR 1.6 billion. What are the consequences? We now have health for the poor and health for the rich. As I said, there are people who wait much longer a year for a consultation, in Keys, in Guarda, in Vila Real and in many other places, which is not fair. But you don't think you can solve the problems just by changing the Law. What happens is that the government has not, in fact, given real priority to health issues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u131	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u132	...has not invested what should invest, has not supported professionals as it should support. The pink scenario that the government presents is not the real scenario that the numbers give us and that the Portuguese feel.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u133	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u134	So the petition we are discussing today is in the right direction. The PSD is here to collaborate, working together, so that we have a review of the Health Bases Act adapted to the present moment, to listen to the citizens, to hear the people, to treat all the patients better and to comply with the Constitution. That's what we want! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u135	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating Prof. Cipriano Justo, as the first signatory and representative of the petitioner group, thanking the civic exercise of citizenship that they have made in presenting this petition. The scope of this petition is strongly valued by the CDS, which has maintained a strong concern about the health area. Therefore, it is understandable to us that a new law of health bases is needed and this was the reason that led us to present a proposal in this regard. We are well aware that there are two levels of concern: the need to frame a new health system, in which the SNS is a fundamental and indispensable pillar, but not the only one, and the need to frame a new health system in which the State maintains the guarantee of the protection of citizens in relation to health, which, for us, is unavoidable. Therefore, our central concern is this, and we do not abdicate from it nor maintain a National Health Service that, along with other providers, meets what is essential: improving the health of Portuguese and the framework that led to its current state. We will have a debate on this subject on 23 January, and obviously we will not anticipate it. However, we welcome the fact that all parties can make their contributions, democratically, without considering it — and I have already called the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, today, on this point—that the contributions of one of them are legitimate, fantastic, protect the citizens and the contributions of others are no longer, in the democratic perspective, legitimate or healthy, negotiated, manipulation of interests. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] This, in fact, shows once again the view of democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u137	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u138	For the CDS, they are not worth the contributions of one, because they come on the one side, and they are no longer worth the contributions of others, because they come on the other side. Sad lesson in democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[All right!]] [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u139	I would like to say that, obviously, we will be present, as we have been in the debate on 23 January, we will not anticipate it. We will not let them confuse the Portuguese—and, if I may, I do so - in my condition as a doctor and health professional too— by making them believe that, now, there is only a need to discuss the Basics Law. What needs to be discussed is the state of emergency of the National Health Service, because in fact...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u140	The state in which you left him!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u141	What « where did you leave it»? Oh, my God! Have you been supporting this government for four years and are you not ashamed to leave things as they are? Oh, my God! Four years ago! [[CDS-PP applause.]] You have the National Health Service in an emergency state and there are clinical directors who have already had the courage and frontality to say that clinical safety is compromised. Is this a country in Europe or is it a country in the third world? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, look carefully at the Government that supports and what they can do, each time they approve a State budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u142	You want to clean up responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u143	Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party speaks for the last time on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the more than 4000 petitioners and address a very special compliment to Dr. Cipriano Justo, first subscriber to Petition No 444 / XIII / 3. the, whose object is precisely to request the review of the Health Bases Act, recalling and honoring, once again, its true inspirations, Antonio Arnaut and João Semedo, by the humanist, political and civic legacy that left us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of 28 years of application of Law No 48/90, make every sense of their review. It makes sense a review that does not give way to ideological apriorisms or particular interests. It makes sense a review that provides the health system with an updated, modern, realistic basic law that serves the general interest and the common good, without questioning the fundamental pillars in which our model of realization of the right to health protection is based. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no question of a revision of the Constitution with a view to recasting Article 64. the ; is not at stake the existence and continuity of a National Health Service universal, general and tendentially free; much less is concerned centrality, preponderance and investment in the National Health Service. It is at stake, yes, a new basic law that defines the principles and the matrix of public policies in health and that, even if it is not a rigid political determinism, reflects the dynamism of a sector, looking at the challenges of the future: demographic transition, social determinants, burden of disease, research and new technologies. It is concerned with a new basic law that combats inequalities, guarantees greater equity and places the citizen at the heart of concerns; places in the independent regulation of the sector the central core of the guarantee of quality care; can attract and maintain more qualified professionals in the SNS, with more attractive status and career and motivations; is projected beyond the evidence and involves objectives with a focus on health promotion and disease prevention. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party does not have ideological prejudices, but knows what interests are involved and what hierarchy it should obey. With regard to a Law which affects 9 % of GDP (gross domestic product) — 18 000 million — that there is no doubt: our commitment is to the National Health Service. We will always favour the public service, with which the dominant functions should be coordinated, in a regulated and controlled manner, the social and private sectors, conditioned, in time and space, according to the current needs, preventing conflicts of interest in the observance of transparency rules. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the social state that we have come to build, that the SNS is the most relevant expression, is a valuable heritage of all Portuguese, which we cannot deploy and destroy, first we must add and enrich. This is the ethical requirement that obliges us to reach consensus. This is the ethical requirement which obliges the Socialist Party to compromise with all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-09.u145	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we thus conclude the assessment of Petition No 444 / XIII / 3. a. It is up to me to announce the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, which will start at 3 p.m. First of all, under Article 72. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, we will hold an actual debate, required by the Greens, on the decision of the additional airport construction government in Montijo. Secondly, we will discuss draft resolution No 1692 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Funding line for higher education institutions work in cooperation with the system for the promotion and protection of children and young people at risk. Thirdly, we will generally appreciate Law Projects Nos. 920 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Removes the vissgolds and 1055 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Establish a residence authorisation scheme based on investment activities in green visa projects. Fourthly, we will generally discuss the Bill No. 1028 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August ( Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System ), which adds the jurisdiction of the Court of Intellectual Property. Fifthly, we will generally discuss draft Law No 881 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Approves the regime for the regularization of undocumented foreign citizens ( sixth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July ). In sixth place, we will generally appreciate Law Projects Nos 885 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Prevents the marketing and use of veterinary medicinal products for livestock use containing diclofenac and 1056 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — prohibits the marketing of veterinary medicinal products of the active substance of diclofenac. In the seventh and final place, we will generally discuss Law Projects Nos 1047 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Amend the Penal Code, in particular the crime of rape, adapting the legislation to the Istanbul Convention ratified by Portugal and 1058 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Amends crimes of rape and sexual coercion in the Criminal Code in respect of the Istanbul Convention ( 47. the amendment to the Penal Code). Good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 20 minutes.]]
