ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the Authority please open the gallery doors to the public. We will start the plenary meeting, the first item on which is an urgent debate, required by the Greens, on the theme 'Treat intensive and superintensive agricultural crops'. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for the opening speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years we have been witnessing, especially around the water perimeter of the Alqueva, a great and accelerated transformation of the agricultural landscape of this region of the Alentejo. But the growing and accelerated conversion of agricultural crops in a traditional way to intensive and superintensive olive and peanut plantations is not just transforming the traditional landscape of the region, because it is also the construction of one of the biggest environmental crimes in our country. Indeed, with this transformation, environmental impacts are beginning to be visible which were, in fact, predictable when moving towards a system of crops in intensive or superintensive manner of this size, without having a set of elements related to the impact on the territory, on the environment and on the people. We are talking about more than 200 000 ha of intensive crops, where we highlight the intensive and superintensive olive with very serious impacts and at all levels, impacts that are confined not only to water blocks installed within the Alqueva, but also to neighboring perimeters and other farms where intensive and superintensive crops advance in an uncontrolled manner. Concerns are many and come from all sides, even because the populations are being confronted with the implementation of this type of crops and with the constant application of pesticides to their populations. And as these cultures advance, the impacts are becoming more and more visible. Let's go to the facts: in a region with some of the best soils in Alentejo and where the risk of desertification has long been identified, these intensive crops are seriously enhancing soil erosion. On the other hand, the use of large quantities of plant protection products and fertilizers, which are sometimes carried out in an irregular manner, is causing effects on a number of levels: at the health level of the populations, even because there are intensive crops with population agglomerations, and people are exposed to serious risks, mainly due to the application of agrochemicals; at the level of water quality, with the fertilizers and pesticides to pollute surface and groundwater water, with reflections on ecosystems; also at the level of human health, so far as it is known — there are people who use catch water alongside areas of application for their own consumption; also at the level of the biological richness of the region, its biodiversity, especially with regard to flora, which is thus threatened, mainly following the application of herbicides in places that function as real biodiversity shelters. With the multiplication of these intensive crops, the water lines, with all the ecological values associated with them, are being reduced to mere drainage valleys, corrected and adulterated, destroying without pain or pity the coastal galleries and marginal vegetation. As a result of the changes in crops in a traditional way for the intensives, the impact on ecosystems was, on its own, notorious — it is true — but the problem is aggravated if we take into account the abuse of herbicides that intensive culture requires, either in quantity or in places that should function as refuges for this biodiversity. To all this it is still necessary to add not only the fact that the mechanical harvest of olive oil is done also during the night and is causing a real mortality in poultry that remains in these places, but also the destruction and disturbance of various places with cultural interest associated with the history of the region and the fact that part of this work is done in a precarious way, without rights and without conditions of dignity. And to all of this, the government has to say something. The Government must respond to this serious problem which is beginning to be frightening. It can't be worth everything! Economic profitability cannot be made at any cost or at any price, it is also necessary to look at impacts — impacts on soil conservation, on surface and underground water quality, on human health, on biodiversity, on archaeological and historical heritage, but also on the loss of a certain regional identity. We are therefore faced with a serious problem which must be of concern to everyone and which requires urgent answers, which is why the Greens wanted to bring the subject to debate today. We brought it not only for the purpose of confronting the government, in order to know what answers are being considered in view of the already visible impacts, but also because it was a commitment we made to the people during the parliamentary days that the Greens promoted in the Beja district, focusing exactly on the issue of intensive and superintensive culture and its real consequences. And if, during the parliamentary days, the Greens have placed 500 black flags alongside many of the intensive cultures as a way of drawing attention to this serious problem, we are now bringing the subject to debate. In conclusion, and giving shape to the commitments made with the people, I am taking advantage of the announcement that the Greens will enter two legislative initiatives, with a view to contributing to curbing the expansion of these cultures and minimizing the effects of existing cultures. One of these initiatives aims to ensure a distance between the existing intensive crops in relation to the stocks and the other aims to prevent agro-environmental measures or aid or subsidies to investment in intensive and super-intensive crops from being allocated. These are the contributions which The Greens are making to curb these cultures and to promote sustainable agriculture that respects the environment, biodiversity, heritage, public health and the quality of life of the population. This is also our contribution to strengthening the fight against climate change in this area. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development, Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by thanking the Green Party for bringing this matter to debate. It is a matter that we consider to be of greatest importance, but it is also having a major distortion in public opinion. Therefore, being a very serious matter, it requires a serious debate and I am sure that that will be what we are going to do here. The Government will seek to provide information on what it is doing and how it sees it and thus to clarify particularly public opinion. This is because every citizen is required, every politician and even more, any holder of a sovereign body that does not deal with information or alarmism and that, when certain statements are made, this is done in a technically and scientifically sustained manner. What I can say is that, within the current government, I have already determined that further studies on this matter were carried out through the INIAV ( National Institute for Agrarian and Veterinary Research ), which are under way. I also decided that the Regional Directorate for Agriculture for Alentejo would seek, in the next campaign, an exhaustive follow-up of the night harvest to see if there is indeed a mortality of trees. In the meantime, three reports were made in the Government prior to the latter, i.e. until 2011, and during the following four years there was no follow-up or follow-up to this issue, and it was resumed within the framework of this Government. In any event, the elements available to the Ministry of Agriculture basically conclude that olives or olive trees in sebe do not promote more environmental pressures than any other irrigation crop, on the contrary, consumes less water than the general nature of these. In addition, the compressed indicators point to it as one of the least potentiators of negative impact on the soil. Mr President, there are problems of erosion because of this type of olive, but they are not technically demonstrated and there is no study to reveal it. Mr President, there is a danger of pesticides, but this is not technically proven anywhere. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] The honourable Member says that there are health problems with fitopharms. Tell me a single case that you know of someone who, because of the olive tree, has had a health problem. Mr President, there are problems with water quality, but there are no analyses that confirm this statement. Mr President, there are problems with biodiversity, but there is nothing to prove; on the contrary. He spoke in the great slaughter of birds with the night harvest, but then, if there was a great death—that, in fact, there is no! — it would prove that biodiversity exists, because if biodiversity did not exist there would certainly be no birds in the olives. [[Green Protests.]] Mrs Deputies and Mr Deputies, I would like to tell you that we are studying the subject, but we cannot make statements like this, which are not supported either by any technical information or by any scientific information. I'm not saying there are no negative impacts! We all know that human activity, through agriculture, always causes negative impacts. We all know this and we have an obligation to try to minimize them, to try to minimize them, but we cannot align them in an alarmist speech that scares people, which questions an activity and has no technical and scientific evidence. That is why we are studying and, obviously, if the studies conclude that something is justified, we will do it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Portuguese olives export today to the most demanding markets in the world and, when exporting to these markets, are subject to quality controls of the highest requirement. However, there is no evidence that pesticides or other products that are harmful to health have ever been detected in Portuguese oil. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition, we have to put the problem into proper proportions. The great concern is about 20 000 ha of olive in sebe, but these represent less than 1 % of the national olive. We're talking about 0, 74% of the national olive, which represents 12% of the Alentejo olive. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should have some attention when we call into question an economic activity of great relevance to the country's economy and which contributes to the development of a region. However, I would like to inform you of the following: there are now about 55 000 ha of olive oil in the area of Alqueva, which means that it will be about one third of the water perimeter. We understand that more than 30 % of a single activity in a water perimeter begins to be excessive. I would therefore like to announce that I have determined, in the current Community support framework, that there will be no further support for the investment of olives, or for the installation of olive-related agro-industries, because we have sufficient capacity to work. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] I would also like to inform you that I have determined the Alqueva Development and Infrastructure Company (EDIA ) to present, in the short term, a study allowing us to make decisions on the continuity of the olive stain. We understand that it is prudent, in order to defend biodiversity, to establish limits to the continuous stain, as must be defined the areas of interruption of these same continuous spots.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u5	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u6	I'm joining you, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the debate once again. I believe that we must all be strict in our statements on this matter, we must study the matter more deeply, we must be careful and take the necessary action. As I now say, the most immediate measures in the Alqueva area are the suspension of investment support and the delimitation of continuous stains within the technically considered appropriate dimensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u7	Mr Minister, you will certainly agree with me if you are told that the time you spent in excess will be discounted in the first round. Let's move on to the first round. Mr António Lima Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a competition is under way, merely electoralist, to see who is, after all, the party of the most friendly left-wing of the environment. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The marking of this debate, made by the Greens Ecological Party, with the theme "to stop intensive and superintensive agricultural crops", is inserted in this game. In this respect, the PSD does not need to prove anything. Its history speaks for itself and, therefore, in relation to the concrete theme that brings us here, our position is very clear and simple: unlike many, we believe it is possible to combine expressions such as'sustainableness and environmental protection' with 'technological modernization and competitiveness of agriculture',...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u10	... an agriculture generating employment, added value and territorial cohesion. in this specific case, in order to ensure sustainability and environmental protection, the government has to monitor, study and compare the environmental impact of all types of irrigation crops and, in cooperation with farmers, define possible mitigation measures of these impacts. The fact is that the government has not done what it should already have done. It was this lack of technical and scientific knowledge, caused by the inaction of the government, which has now generated space for opinions formed on the basis of 'I heard' or which generate social alarm and which, in proof, show a political advantage that is in view of everyone. This is a situation caused by the inaction of the government which, in the first instance, harms farmers themselves. contrary to what many think, farmers are the most interested in defending nature, in combating climate change and in environmentally friendly agricultural practices, increasingly valued by the market. We therefore reject the idea, which permeates here with mistrust, of diabolization of those who are the only ones who invest and wager in our rural world. Of course we should discuss the matter, but with good sense. And good sense is to assume that the irrigation infrastructures, the Alqueva and others, were made to intensify agriculture. Good sense is to put the question in its exact dimension: we speak of 1, 3 % of the agricultural area used in the Alentejo. Good sense is to realize that we speak of native species and therefore of low water demand, of fitopharchics and fertilizers. Good sense is not to hide that we speak of cultures with high carbon sequestration capacity and that contribute to preventing the advancement of soil desertification in the south of the country, which saw the index of aridity triple in 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also discuss this seriously. The Block, the CFP and the Greens have made abusive generalisations in this regard, which we must denounce in defence of the right name of farmers. They accuse farmers of mistreating their workers. They actually create a lot of work, but they're not out of law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u11	Those who do not comply, the authorities, of course, must act. But if you want to insinuate that the labour legislation in force does not serve these workers, why have they not changed the law in the last four years? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u12	You could do it, that was in your hands! They accuse farmers of locating establishments for processing products and by-products of crops near housing areas. those who are not licensed, the authorities who act, of course. But if you want to insinuate that industrial licensing legislation is wrong, that doesn't serve the people, why haven't they changed the law in the last four years? That was in your hands! It is because of this lack of common sense and seriousness that the motivations of this debate are not understood, which are only ideological motivations. [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] What is really at stake here is the usual attack on the private initiative, which carries out a mission — yes, patriotic — of modernising and competitiveness of our agriculture in an international context. This is the case in olive oil, in dried fruit, in wine, in small fruits, in apple, in pear, in vegetables or in pig meat. What is really in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the usual attack on the most dynamic farmers who, against winds and tides, make a huge contribution to the territorial cohesion and economic growth of the country, creating wealth to redistribute and thus improve the standard of living of Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u13	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr Norberto Patinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u14	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the regadio has been one of the most positive answers in the struggle waged by territorial cohesion and the development of the interior, creating conditions favourable to the establishment of people and ensuring a new vitality and sustainable prosperity. Seventeen years after the closure of the walls and the beginning of the filling of the albueira, the barrier of Alqueva today sees its main strategic water reserve function confirmed and has been in the drought periods that Alqueva has shown its main virtue. Someone exceeded all the best expectations, with a strong impact on agriculture and recreation. In parallel with the good results achieved, it has been created around the crops of regadio and, in particular, olive oil, an unjustified and unproven alarmism, which calls into question the contribution this new reality has made to the dynamization of agriculture, the development of the region and also in the fight against climate change. The Alentejo represents a third of the national territory and has a total area of more than 3 million hectares. The forest represents about half of the area, corresponding to about 42 % of the mounting system. At present, some 120 000 ha are irrigated, occupying the olive tree an area of 52 000 ha, less than 1, 5 % of the Alentejo area. It is true that, in a framework of substantial increase in the area of irrigation, there have been changes in the agricultural landscape, but it is an unquestionable reality that this change has been decisive in fixing people in the territory, generating jobs and creating wealth. It is to compare unemployment in the region for 10 years and now. It is to compare the number of young people with training who have left the Alentejo and are returning. It is to verify the parallel path of this new reality in terms of landscape with the sustained development of tourism in the region. As an author, I am still, there is a huge difference in the use and pressure that was made to the municipal chambers to solve the serious problems of unemployment. There is responsibility for the information that is being done and it is mandatory that this information be proved. We cannot say that olive oil implies a huge expenditure of water when it is proven that olive oil is among the less demanding irrigation crops in water. Even the olive tree in sebe consumes less water than other crops. We should not be alarming about the dangers of the use of pesticides and herbicides without presenting specific cases of environmental or human health situations, without presenting scientific data proving reasons for alarm. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u15	We cannot confuse the problems caused by the poor working of olive slurry treatment units — which have to be solved — with the exploitation of olives. Good agricultural practices, which are mandatory, drastically eliminate or minimize the risks associated with the use of phytopharmaceuticals. But even in this situation, the olive tree has good behavior in relation to other plant species. As the President of EDIA says, a corn field has 20 times more poison and 10 times more fertilizer. Also the carbon balance is very positive, especially in systems with interline riveting and without soil disturbance after planting. There was clearly a paradigm shift in Alentejo agriculture: more technology, more professionalization, product diversification, interaction with the agri-food industry sector, production for external markets. The farmers and technicians involved deserve our trust. In intensive systems, there is a higher level of application of fertilizers and fitofarms products, but there are technical competences and structural factors that make it easier to implement practices more sustainable. The technical capacity, ease of mechanization and financial incentives of agri-environmental measures have led to the application of more modern olives only on the line of herbicide and have inbreeding in the interline. The olive tree irrigated by the drop system is, contrary to what is intended to be believed, a culture with proven benefits: Mediterranean, native, well adapted to our climate and soils. The stream brings intensification of agriculture, but that is a fact that is no novelty to anyone. That's why we fought! For decades we fought for the construction of the barrier of Alqueva, for the irrigation, for a different agriculture, for the development, for a better future in our region, on our land. Someone was always a contested project: the quota, the climate change, the fog, were always sand grains that significantly delayed the project's completion. We cannot stop the development of a region. Regadium is crucial for this development. The olive is one of our most valuables and we must not diabolize it. We are aware that the assessment of the possible environmental effects of olive irrigation culture, carried out by technicians of the Ministry of Agriculture, concluded that intensive olive oil does not promote more environmental pressures than other irrigation crops, with a decisive expression in the Alentejo. We are aware that it has determined that INIAV promotes further studies, the presentation of conclusions and any recommendations aimed at mitigating negative impacts that may be detected. In view of the eventuality of a territory domain by a single culture in order to constitute a threat either from an economic point of view or from an environmental point of view, I congratulate you, Mr Minister, on the announcement you made minutes ago that you will contribute to moderate the planting of new olive trees, defining rules for the discontinuity of the land occupied with this culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u16	Mr Norberto Patinho, like what happened to the government, the most used time will be discounted in the second round. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, may I begin this speech not on the subject under discussion, but by referring to an attempt to mask the reality, which the right here has brought and which is unacceptable to us. It is unacceptable because, by denying reality, the right also intends to deny the progress that the majority of parliament has achieved in recent years in defending workers, who were brutally exploited, often savagely, withdrawing their rights, denying their passports and saying that they were still in debt to companies. [[All right!]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u18	This past century reality was the reality of our country, proven by police authorities. So when the right here comes to say that there has not been, nor is there, exploitation of people in many of such intensive olives or other intensive and superintensive cultures not just want to mask reality, want to deny rights to all workers, because by denying abuse in the face of ill-treatment all, and that we do not accept, we cannot accept. This right, which you want to compact with this abuse, will remain that responsibility. We have taken steps to safeguard the interest of these workers and pride ourselves on these steps, because slavery cannot take place in the twenty-first century and much less in Portugal. Mr Minister, on the debate, in particular, which has been brought here, there are some important ideas that it is important to leave. The first aspect relates to the fact that we cannot base all this debate on what the Minister has tried to do — and the PS has tried to repeat — on saying that there is no scientific indication for the evils that intensive or superintensive culture can bring. The UN itself ( the United Nations ) recognizes that there are various dangers. In fact, this type of culture begins by being able to attack the fauna — it can attack the insect community, for example — for being able to attack the fraternal sheets, for being able to attack the quality of life of the populations. This reality exists and is a problem that must be solved. From that point of view, when we look at the Alqueva, we realize that this reality is confronted with unequivocal economic interests. Mr. Minister said that there is a large export of the olive derivative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u19	Olive oil! The derivative of olives is olive oil!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u20	... of oil and other goods, and this economic interest cannot cloud our gaze at reality as it is. We know that in the intensive and superintensive olive culture, there is a much greater economic return than in traditional culture. The question that we ask is this: at what cost for the environment, at what cost for agriculture in our country, at what cost for the future of those lands? This is the point we want to focus on to start this discussion. Mr. Minister said that there is no scientific validity to question these problems, but we had several NGOs (non-governmental organization), that in many cases are completely suitable, such as the Centro de Estudos da Avifauna Ibérica, the League for the Protection of Nature, the National Association of Conservation of Nature-Quercus or the SPEA (Portuguese Society for the Study of Birds ), who said that there were problems for poultry, as you are already seeing from the Spanish side. And that's unequivocal, we're already having that return. But there are also problems caused by the use of chemicals, intensively, which can reach humans. Mr Minister, what I ask you is whether during this debate we can expect from the Government more initiative than that which has already brought us. The one that brought us is an advance, but it is insufficient, because nothing says about the chemicals that remain on the ground, nor about the defense of this part of the fauna. Minister, is there anything else you can bring us here? It is because, in the second intervention, I will give you some of the solutions that the Left Block believes are necessary for our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u21	As the previous speakers have been informed, the time spent in this round by the Left Block will be-CL - will be discounted in the next round. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State — I welcome — Mr President. Members, the CDS believes that this debate should be discussed seriously, without fundamentalism, without alarmism, based on proven technical and scientific knowledge and not on the theory of fear, which is what The Greens and also a little the Left Block brought us here. Mr Minister, I confess that in the first part of your speech I was quite pleased. It is unfortunate that Mr Minister, in order to please management, has broken everything he said in the last few seconds when he said he had decided to cut the support for intensive or superintensive olives or any olive in the Alentejo. I would like to ask you a question: what is the technical and scientific basis used in making this decision? For the ladies. Members and people at home understand, the term "superintensive" is used for an olive tree that is in sebe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u23	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u24	If we said it was a sebe olive, no one would worry about the term « superintensive», which is alarming! Why? Because there was the traditional olive tree... until I'm freaking out that the PCP hasn't talked yet, let's see what he's gonna say. But the PCP, which so much defends food sovereignty, what do you have to say about this kind of olive tree? I hope so, because it was with this kind of olive that we were able to guarantee food self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u25	If we only eat olive oil, the honourable Member may be right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u26	Portugal has the best olives in the world, olives that win prizes, are always at the top places of international prizes, often win first prizes. These olives do not have any kind of waste, of phytophoramics. By the way, I will say that the phytopharmaceuticals are what you call 'pesticides', which are as necessary for plants as we need medicines, and we don't take antibiotics every day. Therefore, it is good that the debate is serious so that people can make reasoned decisions and on the basis of correct information.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u27	It's all about semantics!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u28	The production per hectare of an olive tree in sebe, superintensive, is exactly the same as an olive tree in irrigated orchard and therefore the amount of plant protection products is exactly the same. Are all farmers always doing well? Surely not! Surely there are good doctors and bad doctors, good teachers and bad teachers, good politicians and bad politicians, good farmers and bad farmers. Farmers who do not comply should be monitored. That is why there are rules, that is why there are penalties and that is why the government must be here, i.e., to control and correct what is wrong. You have come to convey a completely wrong theory... In fact, several international organizations have mentioned here, and I mean, in order to finish this first round, that BirdLife says the following: «It is necessary to ensure the compatibility of intensive agriculture with the conservation of biodiversity at a key moment for the future of the common agricultural policy». Therefore, if BirdLife also does not offer you any kind of credibility, I would like to know which organizations offer you credibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u29	The same treatment, in terms of time, will have the CDS-PP bench. It is now Mr. João Oliveira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Agriculture, Mr Minister will never take the CFP in false, alarming whatever situation it is, but he also does not count on the CFP to silence the concerns we have in this area. Mr Minister, the concerns we have about intensive and superintensive cultures are of an economic, social and also environmental and public health nature. What are economic and social concerns at the beginning? Because we have large foreign companies who come, for example, to Alentejo to buy thousands and thousands of hectares to implement intensive and superintensive crops, thus reducing the capacity and availability of land to rent — one of the main problems of small farmers in Alentejo is not to have access to land to rent; because we have a problem with agricultural crops, which are increasingly found in olive groves, almonds, vineyards and intensive and superintensive crops; because we have a problem with reducing the number of jobs, because, with intensive and superintensive culture, there is also a reduction in the number of jobs that need to be assured and, by that way, employment in the agricultural area is reduced. We have economic and social problems in our region, and little by little throughout the country, which result in this type of intensive and superintensive agriculture, and this is a dimension that we neither underestimate nor underestimate. The economic and social problems of the impact of this type of agriculture are real and are concerns on which we have to question the government. What assessment, what monitoring, what concern has the government had with these economic and social impacts of intensive and superintensive cultures in our country? contrary to what Mrs Patrícia Fonseca of the CDS has just said, it is obvious that a country that ends its agricultural activity in two or three cultures does not guarantee food sovereignty. That is more than obvious and seems to us more than obvious! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u31	Freedom of choice! Do you know freedom of choice? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u32	On environmental and public health issues, our concerns are not minor, but, Minister, I will not speculate on this, I will present you with a concrete case. In the municipality of Avis, in Ervedal, Benavila, there are intensive and superintensive farms bordering with residential areas and with the surface water of the Maranhão dam. Mr. Minister, reports from the population of Benavila indicate that, with the application of fertilizers and other products, there is a dispersion of white powder in the residential areas. By coincidence, there's a record of respiratory and dermatological problems that are going to get worse. The Board of Opinions questioned the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs ( DGAV ) and knows what was the DGAV's response to the issue that the House of Opinions raised? Among other things, he says this: "This Directorate-General has no information on the products which, in particular, producers in the areas it refers to are applying. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Minister, do you think this is a satisfactory answer? What follow-up is taking place in this situation, in particular? Mr Minister, we are not alarmists and we are not going to establish a direct link between the dermatological and respiratory problems, which have worsened, and the dispersion of that white powder, but this needs to be investigated and evaluated to realize whether or not there is any connection between one thing and another. Finally, I would like to ask you other questions, Minister. We are still going to deliver an initiative today in the Assembly of the Republic on these matters and we would like to know whether or not the Government agrees with the drafting of a charter and registration of holdings under intensive and superintensive regime. Do you agree with the development and advertising of an integrated assessment of the effects of extensive agricultural areas in intensive and superintensive terms? Do you or do you not agree to evaluate the safeguard regime for urban perimeters and surface water masses in relation to these farms? Do you or do you not agree to evaluate the possibility of mandatory environmental impact assessment arrangements as an element of authorisation for the installation of new intensive or superintensive agriculture projects, or the extension of those that already exist, where the area of coverage is more than 50 ha? As you see, Mr Minister, it is not an alarmist approach that we are doing here, it is a responsible approach to a matter that we find very relevant and that needs to be considered in all its dimensions: environmental and public health, but also economic and social. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u33	The CFP Parliamentary Group will also have the same treatment with regard to time in the second round. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u34	Mr President, Minister, Mr Minister, you have come here to say that you want to have a serious debate and that is exactly what the Greens want in marking this debate. So I would like to say to you, Minister, perhaps to adjust your response, that we are talking about intensive and superintensive crops and not just olive crops, but not just olives, we cannot underestimate, for example, the brutal area of peanuts that is fat by this Alentejo outside. On the other hand, the Minister says that he does not want an alarmist speech on this matter. The Greens say that neither does it, but we also do not want a whitening speech, which makes it clear that there are no problems. Therefore, in a serious logic of loyalty and responsibility, we bring to this debate a matter that is causing real environmental problems and affecting the quality of life of the populations. The Minister has always spoken of the olive tree in sebe—of course, the CDS also likes to use this terminology—, both to use euphemism and to exactly hide the characteristics of these cultures, which are intensive and superintensive. And that means anything. However, if the Minister were not really concerned, he would not come to the Assembly of the Republic to say that he commissioned studies to measure the impacts of these crops, nor would he go to the Assembly of the Republic to say that he wanted to end with support for investment in these crops, nor would he come to the Assembly of the Republic to say that these immense patches of intensive and superintensive olives must be discontinued. On the other hand, Mr Minister, in his speech, wants to flee to reality. I would like to ask you a very specific question: can the Minister deny that these intensive and superintensive cultures are completely disenchanting the rural landscape of Alentejo? They are! Mr. Minister, of course, he does not deny it. Mr. Minister, can you say that we're talking about irrigation crops that don't need water? You can't say that either. But the Minister knows the difference between traditional olives and dried olives. I will now ask you another question: why does the Minister not announce the end of support for agri-environmental measures which are precisely aimed at making certain production models more sustainable, but which are then not applied to more sustainable production models?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u35	You don't know what he's saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u36	For example, if we are talking about measures for the efficient use of water, these support may apply to intensive and superintensive crops but no longer apply to traditional olives. Does this make any sense when we're talking about more sustainable cultures? Don't do it! It would therefore be good for the Minister to extend this 'end of the support' to certain support which makes no sense. On the other hand, Mr Minister, if it is the land to talk to the people, in particular, he will not be able to deny that the use of pesticides in these intensive and superintensive cultures is directly affecting the quality of life of people, taking into account, often, the proximity of their dwellings to these cultures. These people have to close the windows and doors of their homes because they can't stand it, Minister. It's good to see this reality. The question that the Greens are asking is whether the Minister is prepared to accept an initiative which the Greens present in the Assembly of the Republic to promote a distance from the extremes of these intensive and superintensive crops to housing, namely a distance of 300 m, which is precisely the reference used for transgenic crops in terms of contamination of other cultures. Mr Minister, we have a serious problem, that of climate change, where we have to take concrete mitigation measures, but also adaptation measures. And transforming our landscape, and not just our landscape, but all that involves spreading through our Alentejo outside and through our territory outside these intensive and superintensive cultures is promoting the opposite of the adaptation that we should be doing, because this has a concrete impact on water expenditure and soil saturation. Mr Minister, since he likes technical and scientific studies so much, but, in the light of the facts, he gives little credibility to what the people say, he knows that there are studies aimed at Alentejo on the effects of climate change that determine a potential for desertification of extremely worrying soils.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u37	I would ask you to conclude, because you have already exceeded the time available in the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u38	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u39	From now on, the time to spend will be discounted on closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u40	We need, in fact, concrete measures to adapt to climate change and one of them is precisely to stop these intensive and superintensive cultures. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u41	Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Luís Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u42	Mr President, I would like to clarify a number of misconceptions, because I cannot call anything else to some of the statements I have heard here. I wanted to respond to all of you in a successive way. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr.António Lima Costa says the government is studying little. Yeah, the government's studying little, but it's studying something. In the previous four years, the government has not studied strictly anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u43	Because it wasn't necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u44	There is not only one technical information, there is not one scientific work that has been produced by the Ministry of Agriculture on this subject in the four years preceding this government. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr Norberto Patinho will say that I essentially agree with what he said. I believe that the problem must be seen in its exact dimension and, therefore, I would answer Mr Pedro Filipe Soares from now on because I think we are diabolicizing a problem here. There is a lot of talk about the intensive, the interintensive, the superintensive. But do we have any idea what that is? That means more or less plant / m2. That's it! And what's the problem, Mr. Deputies? Don't you get any more carbon? Does it not rationalize the use of fertilizers by fertigation? It seems like it is a devil a culture to be superintensive or intensive! Mr. Deputies, the alfaces, the peppers, the garlic, all this is superintensive. Once upon a time, the gentlemen. Have Members been concerned that all vegetables are superintensive? Someone said, when you're going to buy a lettuce to the market, 'Look here is a superintensive lettuce', 'Look here is a superintensive pepper'? That is absolutely absurd!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u45	The Minister is superintensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u46	We're talking about a culture whose density has more plants or less plants. Because, even from an environmental point of view, if you have more plants, it captures more carbon; if you have more plants, it takes less fertilizers; if you have more plants, it takes less pesticides, because spraying affects in a more efficient way. So this is a completely surreal debate! I'm sorry to say, in these terms, it's completely surreal! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] When I see accentuating the intensive, the superintensive... who doesn't understand what that is, gets terrified!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u47	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u48	I repeat once again: the carrots are superintensive, the spinach is superintensive. So we're going to end superintensive agriculture and then I don't know what we eat, right? [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] I would also like to see the Members. Members would allow and if Mr President would allow me to continue to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u49	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you are standing by to sit down.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u50	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares that I endorse everything he has said about our concern for the labour issues in the field of agriculture. These are issues that concern us and on which the government is committed, because we have indeed detected situations of abuse and exploitation, which we want to radically eliminate. Mr. João Oliveira made several statements without supporting any of them. The novelty that you brought here is that there is a mysterious white dust, in Avis, which supposedly causes health problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u51	It is not « supposed», it is indeed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u52	Certainly, it has already been communicated to the health authorities, who must be investigating the matter, because there is no evidence that there is white dust anywhere else in the country where there is olive oil. If there is some mysterious white powder in Avis it is because some circumstance in Avis determined that it would be so. Because if it were from the olive tree, we would have the country all powdered with talc powder, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u53	Mr. Minister is joking with serious things!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u54	So I don't think that's an argument to bring us here. On the other hand, some of Mr. Ladies and gentlemen have been talking...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u55	Minister, please interrupt a little. I ask the honourable Member, whom I have just asked to sit down and continue to stand, to sit down so that the Minister can continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u56	Some of you. Members have criticized the proximity of plantations to houses. Question: then, what prevents the chambers from being prevented from doing so in their PDM (municipal director's plan)? So is it now up to the Ministry of Agriculture to define the limits of the urban perimeters in the municipal directors' plans? Listen, if the House of Avis, the House of Serpa, finally, if the chambers have olive trees at the foot of the house, alter their PDM and establish the protection area that they think is appropriate. It is not the Ministry of Agriculture that will do this, as it is obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u57	This one's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u58	Mr João Oliveira also announced an initiative by the Communist Party — a letter of ordering the areas cultivated on the water perimeters — and asked whether the Government would adhere to it. That's it, sir! The Communist Party can therefore refrain from taking that initiative because it already exists! We know where they are and what is the cultural plan of all water perimeters. You don't need to do this! The honourable Member wants the Government to make an application for authorisation for all crops above 50 ha. Sir, do you think it makes sense? And why not cultures above 20 ha? Or 250 ha?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u59	Of intensive and superintensive cultures, that's what we're dealing with!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u60	So, what's the problem? Why should there be an application for authorization above 50 ha? What if you have 49, 9 ha can freely plant a superintensive olive? Only after the 50 ha is it dangerous? Mr President, that does not seem to make sense of your proposal. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Mrs Heloísa Apolónia also drew attention to the « brutal area of peanuts». Mrs. Deputy, the brutal area of peanuts is 0, 36 %! We have 11,000 ha of peanuts! We have 11,000 ha of peanuts! Where's the problem? Where's the problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u61	We have seven times more than last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u62	Tell the honourable Member we have more. We have, sir! We have 11,000 ha right now. And yet we have, because it is one of the most well-quoted cultures, for which the country has fitness, and it is a culture that is not one of the most wasteful of water. I'm glad we have, sir. I'm glad we got it. I don't understand where the problem is! Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said: « You announced that you will no longer allocate investment support». So I'm being arrested for having a dog and being arrested for not having a dog! For if I do not do this, here is the king; if I do this, I already prove that it is necessary. I am doing this because, at the moment, I am not in favour of monoculture under any circumstances, we already have, with this culture, about 30 % of the total water perimeter of Alqueva and I understand that limits must be established to its continuity and thus to establish interruptions. I don't think it makes sense to continue financially supporting the launch of lagarres, when we already have more than enough lagars to work on all our raw materials. It is an attitude of pure rationality. Anyone who wants to make ditches at your expense. It will do so without public support. That's all, Mrs. Member. Finally, she also said that the olive tree decharacterises the landscape. I'd like to draw your attention to the next...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u63	You want to see it's a lie too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u64	Mr President, what is it, then, that does not disenfranchise the landscape? It's having the landscape as if there's no irrigation, isn't it? We invest in the Alqueva EUR 2500 million, Mr. It is clear that in those 180 000 ha the landscape has to be decharacterized, because we have passed from a drought culture to a culture of irrigation. The only way not to decharacterize the landscape was not to have made the regadion! But his party and others who are here in this room have walked for years, with me, fighting for that work. So, after we're done, we say, « Stop there! Now they cannot decharacterize the landscape, let us continue with the cultures that existed before the benefit work has been done»? Madam Member, we must be aware that we do not live in the paleolytics! We don't live in hunting and collecting! We live from agriculture! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We live from agriculture! It is agriculture that feeds humanity, it is agriculture that contributes to the country's economy, that contributes to employment, that contributes to our self-sustainment and that, of course, has environmental costs. A garden decharacterizes the landscape. The person who, around your house, makes a garden is disenchanting the landscape! There are environmental costs that necessarily arise from agricultural activity, unless we return to the paleolytics. It's the only way to solve that equation. What we want, of course, is to mitigate, reduce negative impacts. This is what we are doing, analyzing the soils, analyzing the waters, analyzing the final composition of the products and, of all the analyses we have, none of them supports the theses that are currently in public opinion, diabolicizing a culture that is not different from the other cultures. It only has this terrible seal, which is the fact that it is called 'intensive'. But I repeat, when you hear me speaking intensively, remember all the vegetables you consume at home! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u65	The sauce, for example!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u66	The time used in excess will be discounted in the next round, which starts immediately. Mr Nuno Serra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the aggressive arguments used today in this debate well illustrate the distorted, radical view that some parties have of society. along this role of foundations pointed out by these benches, we did not hear talk once in equilibrium. We have not heard of sustainability in food production. in this speech, there was also no place for the growth of agricultural production, for the sustained development of agriculture, nor for territorial cohesion. There has also been no room for the true sustainable development of our country, nor has there been room for ecology, because, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, being an environmentalist is not wanting a nature without men or women. And radicalize and extremize asymmetry between production, in the rural environment, and the environment, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a mistake! It is a mistake for the debate, because it does not clarify anyone, but it is also a mistake for the future of the environment. Mrs. Members, agricultural production and the environment can only live together, they can only coexist together. On the one hand, the world will not survive without the agriculture that feeds us and will not survive without the environment that guarantees the survival of our ecosystem. And that, yes, is the great challenge of politicians: not to acquaint or accentuate these frictions, but, on the contrary, we are all promoters of common sense, of weighting, of the application of science to ensure a better future. Mrs. Members, continue to radicalize your fight against some intensive farming practices, instead of demanding agricultural practices that respect the environment, knowledge and science, it is not to be balanced. We in the PSD will continue to defend agriculture that increasingly employ sustainable production factors in environmental terms: more efficient in terms of water, more productive and more profitable. To create this political anathema with the intensive olive tree, which is today of small size, without resorting to the question of science, without considering the challenges that man has for tomorrow, is not looking at the human dimension, nor at our country, it is just looking at the interests of each one. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, intensive olive oil is not an attack on the environment, nor will it be, if we politicians are able to put aside the ideological divides and, with due weighting, create conditions for agricultural production to coexist in an environment-defensor country. This is the challenge that we leave to all parties here in this Parliament: do not radicalize the issue, spread your ideological coats, use science as a starting point, join us, and think, above all, of people, in the world we want to have, in the future of our country, where the well-being of men and women is always the focus of our political motivation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u68	Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, what is being discussed today in this House is agriculture: regadio agriculture, modern agriculture, productive agriculture. It is an agricultural practice in Alentejo, especially in Lower Alentejo, the fruit of good public investment, the barrier of the Alqueva, which irrigates 120,000 hectares and was built to change the Alentejo. And now we're also going to build Pisão. I take this opportunity to congratulate the honourable Members. Presidents of the Upper Alentejo Chamber, who gained a new hope with the government's decision to build this dam. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I say: « It is so great the Alentejo, / So much abandoned land! / The earth gives bread :/ For the good of this nation/ It should be cultivated. / It has always been forgotten / Far south of the Tagus :/ There are unemployed people, / So much abandoned land! - It's so big the Alentejo! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u70	Get Mr Norberto Patinho to sing that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u71	This is a well-known song of the Alentejo singer, a fashion, as we say in the Alentejo. And why is it called fashion? Because it mirrors, portraits, what lived at that time. This was what lived in the Alentejo before Alqueva was built. This was the picture of agriculture we had in the region, but what we have today is the obligation, the duty, to clarify, with facts and with truths; it cannot and cannot be a diabolization on this type of modern agriculture based on perceptions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's therefore get to the facts. Did we build the Alqueva Dam to have water, irrigate the soils and make our lands productive? Yes! Should we therefore require efficient use of water? Yes! Is olive the crop that most water uses? Don't! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Cultures such as corn, tomato, wine, table grapes, melon, beet, wheat use more water than olive, and these are just a few examples. Mrs. Members, in some countries, such as Egypt, the planting of olive trees in sebe is used to combat desertification, among other things. Does this culture create jobs? Yes, it creates and sets young and qualified population in these interior territories. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Does this type of culture bring economic development to the region? Yes! Mrs. Members, the Lower Alentejo region is today one of the most important regions in the country for our exports. Does this type of culture generate biodiversity? Gera, and protects many species, of course differently from drought culture, which continues to be very important in Lower Alentejo. BirdLife's CEO (executive chief officer) confirms that there is no evidence of bird mortality, as they mean there is.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u72	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u73	I'm done now, Mr. President. Does this olive crop fix carbon? Yes! Therefore, we can say that this type of culture makes an important contribution to global warming. There's a lot to do. Let's work, let's develop the region! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u74	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u75	Mr President, Minister, I asked you to point out a few more actions and the Minister came with rhetoric, trying to confuse olives or almonds with vegetables and their production. Mr Minister knows — I do not take it out of ignorance of this matter, but I know that the Minister is quite familiar — what is the difference between one exploitation and another. Therefore, when it comes to saying that it does not accept any more installation of olive on the perimeter of Alqueva, because it is already overloaded, or that it even claims that there are periods of intermediation between olive farms, it knows that, to that end, it is proposing what it does not propose, for example, for productions of carrots or vegetables, because it is not the same thing. To confuse one with the other is clearly not to take the debate seriously, and that is what people affected by these superintensive and intensive farms do not accept from the Minister, wishing for a more serious debate on this matter. I asked for actions and I'll leave you with the left block suggestions. First of all, that the negative effects that this may have on populations, particularly on the abuse of pesticides, such plant protection products, and that the populations, the presidents of the chamber, some even the Socialist Party, are not denied until they follow the area of agriculture, as is the case of former deputy Luís Pita Amisema, who is familiar with these matters and who is, himself, concerned about what is happening in the Alentejo. I would like to ask you whether or not it is important to implement minimum buffering areas and infrastructures and, therefore, to extend what you have already said is necessary. But to extend this so that there is a structured thought in order to prevent an extension of monocultures or superintensive and intensive crops per hectare and hectares per yarn. I wonder whether or not it is important to implement ecological networks and infrastructures so that, too, we can reduce the use of pesticides, among other things. Question remains whether or not a structured perspective is guaranteed for the implementation of these plans, because that is also what is missing. We do not see this happening and, as such, we consider a moratorium essential in the licensing of intensive or superintensive productions and that there clearly exists an arrangement of these cultures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u76	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u77	I will finish now, Mr President. Finally, I would ask the Minister not to deny reality and to have the courage to do what is right for the Ministry of Agriculture, which is to defend poultry and to defend, for example, that there is no nightly extraction of fruit, etc. , nor use of pesticides at night.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u78	No one's applying pesticides at night!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u79	Because, as Mr. Minister knows, this is a bird mortality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u80	You have the floor for the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u81	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares found it strange that the Minister was comparing olive oil with vegetable crops, but I would like to give him another comparison, Mr Deputies: to criticise or compare a superintensive olive with an intensive olive tree, which is an olive tree in orchards, is the same thing as criticising the pea-rock or apple apple orchards of Alcobaça, which today are conducted in sebe and which, traditionally, were led to orchards, i.e., those trees with dolls that we saw in the school books. It is the same thing as saying that a hanging vineyard is less good or better than a canned vineyard or than a vine in cordon. Each region has its typicalities and therefore one is no better than the other. You need to talk about what you know and, if you don't know, you're going to inform yourself! Don't let them down. The CFP is very concerned about the question of labour—and I noted that it did not come to speak ill of the olive tree! The honourable Member was concerned about the labour force and employment, which is also a concern for us, because working conditions should be worthy of everyone, but this type of olive comes precisely — and also in response to the Left Block — to address this problem of lack of labour, because it is mechanized and therefore does not need so much work. I can also say that there are parties that, in the face of a problem—and we have seen this in this debate—the solution they find is to ban. The CDS wants to evolve, transforming challenges into opportunities. Are there any problems here? There is. There is the problem of the olive slurry, which you have raised and which has already been discussed several times at Commission meetings. However, the problem of pollution generated by olive slurry factories has nothing to do with the type of olive driving! The factories that transform the olive slurry must comply with the law and must create conditions to avoid pollution. They are independent matters, we're not going to mix them up and confuse people. Environmental legislation needs to be complied with. There's another problem related to birds and the night catch. Is that a problem? Let us see, because BirdLife itself doubts that it is a problem; it questions it and says it should be evaluated. We have also had, with the exception of a mistake, the President of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et des Forestas), who told us — and the Minister has already told us — that this will be evaluated. It's just that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the olive harvest takes place from October to February and, therefore, only at that time will we be able to make such an assessment, not now, when you decide. Once again, instead of banning the night catch, which is what you want, let's study. Let's see where the sleeping places are, where the birds sleep, sleep only in some areas and don't sleep in others, to decide where you can harvest at night and where you have to catch by day. If that is not enough, you can, for example, scare the birds to lift their flight and not be there during the harvest. There is a huge set of solutions that we should seek before we ban. You really like to ban.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u82	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u83	To conclude, Mr President, I leave this note alone: when we talk about the concern about the transformation of the landscape, I would like to ask the Greens, the Left Block, indeed, all the parties present here, if any of you criticize and question the landscape of the High Douro Vinhateiro, deeply transformed by man, perhaps the most transformed, and the landscape of the vineyard of the island of Pico, which are, no less than the heritage of humanity. They represent an intensive monoculture of wine that no one questions, that does not bring any problem, that we all like to see. And we all like to drink those wines.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u84	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u85	Therefore, this is a completely demagogic discussion that the CDS cannot follow. [[CDS applause.]] PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u86	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Ángela Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The disproportionate growth of intensive and superintensive agricultural crops is a cause for concern. Integration into the European Union promoted the closure of thousands of agricultural holdings and led to small and medium-sized producers leaving their holdings, opening the way for intensive and superintensive production, easy and fast profit exploitation. A mode of production that relies on over-exploitation of land, with plantations in very small composts, with water consumption well above traditional and a massive use of agrochemicals. The intensification of these crops alone constitutes a high risk to the environment by exposure to harmful biotic agents, by intensification of the use of pesticides for pest control, which, through air spraying and high pressure, will contaminate the soil, water resources, fauna, flora and populations by annihilation of biodiversity. The permissiveness of successive governments, this masked inertia of concern to the environment and climate change, is based on the concerns of the CFP. As economic interests and concerns about profit prevail, the planet loses its proper central place, a place that remains occupied by the great capital. Evidence of this is the legal regime of environmental impact assessment of projects likely to produce significant effects on the environment, where reference is made to agricultural projects. Here, once again, everything seems to be done according to the easy and fast profit, being the environmental impact assessment regime based on the unique dimension of the farms, leaving out projects that, aggregated, form extensive areas that largely exceed the minimum limits that justify the need for environmental impact assessment. However, they are not required to protect soil, water resources, biodiversity, heritage, populations — that is to say only of the most obvious aspects.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u88	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u89	I conclude now, Mr President. Mr Minister, how does it justify that, in the face of an emerging concern about the environment, immediate action is not taken to assess and monitor this problem? Finally, I ask you: is the Minister prepared to break up with the political options of the right and to move forward with another policy that has as its main objective the defence of natural resources, the environment and the population? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u90	Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Luís Capoulas Santos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u91	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Mr Nuno Serra and Mr Pedro do Carmo, I would like to say that I have nothing to add, unless I essentially agree with what they said. I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares because I once again felt that he was working on some misconceptions. They are clearly mistaken, some of which were mentioned by Mrs Patrícia Fonseca. The honourable Member said that I gave the example of horticulture for intensive crops, but, as has already been said, the rock pear of the West is an orchard in sebe and the vineyards are orchards in sebe. It's that bush multiplied by miles. Now, I've never seen anyone worried about the water system in sebe cultures. And we don't say intensive rock pear, we don't say intensive alcobace apple, we don't say intensive port wine! All this is intensive cultures, so the problem is not to be called intensive, or not. I say more: from the point of view of the environment, intensive cultures have advantages. And why? First, because there are more plants per hectare, there is greater carbon uptake. Secondly, there is fertigation, which means that fertilization is done with the water, i.e. that means that fertilization is discontinued over time. In cereals, for example, fertilizer is placed all at once, and the question of occurrence arises when rain comes. at present, we have about 200 000 ha of cereals in Portugal and we have 50 000 ha of olives in Alqueva. The cereals of Portugal take twice the agrochemicals of the olive, even the one they call intensive and superintensive! So I think that a myth has been created and that if it is not decoded for the ordinary citizen it will lead the public to work in a mistake and, any day, even not even consume oil! Mrs. Have you seen the danger of this debate from this point of view? Oh, my God! Oil is a healthy food, increasingly recognized as such worldwide. If we are giving here the idea that it is dangerous to eat olive oil, if the olive has all these evils, if it hurts health, if it has agrochemicals, if it has pesticides, if it has herbicides, then it can only give a bad product! We must be very careful with the statements we make, because oil is the best products we have for human health. Mr President, perhaps you do not know that you do not have to know, of course, in recent years, the European Union has reduced the use of more than 100 pesticides.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u92	Because they were cancers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u93	Farmers complain about this because in some cases they are no longer competitive, having no products to attack diseases and have lower productions, precisely because the European Union has been drastically reducing the number of pesticides over 100 over the past six or seven years. So I don't think we can insist on this speech. Mrs Moreira again made the same mistakes: agrochemicals and pesticides. Tell me what agricultural activity is, except those in organic production or integrated protection mode, which this government has promoted and defended. I would like to recall that it was this government that put in place the national strategy for organic agriculture. It is this Government which has the agri-environmental measures and which, in the Community funds, lays down about 30 % to 40 % of the measures which are green. Therefore, we are the first to defend sustainable agriculture, an agriculture that tends increasingly for organic farming. I must say that there are many olive trees, several hectares, which you call intensive, which are in organic production mode and even in integrated production mode. The honourable Member also spoke about the water consumption of these « cursed crops». I would like to give you some values: the olive spends, on average, 2500 m3 per hectare; the tomato spends 8500 m3; the pepper spends 9000 m3; the table grape spends 6000 m3; the melon spends 7000 m3 per hectare; the fruits, apples, pears, spend between 7000 and 9000 m3 per hectare. Therefore, it is precisely the olive — whether it is intensive or not — because water consumption is equal — and the peanut crops are less water-consuming. If today we can have more area in the Alqueva, whose initial perimeter was designed for 120 000 ha and will reach the 180 000 ha, this is only possible because of the olive area, because the olive area, spending less water, released land to be used in other cultures. Mrs. Members, I think this debate has been enlightening, but it has also been a debate which aims at exactly the opposite of what its promoters wanted, because it shows that, after all, these are cultures that do not differ from others and therefore there is no reason to be classified as cursed cultures, quite the contrary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u94	Let us turn to the end of this debate. The Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development once again has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to reaffirm what I have been trying to say in my reply to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, again thanking the Green Party for bringing the issue to debate, because I think this is a subject that lacks much debate in Portuguese society for the reasons that have been exuberantly exposed here, even because this debate, speaking of the so-called intensive or superintensive cultures, ended up being, above all, a debate focused on Alqueva's enterprise, where they have greater implementation. For many years, not to say many decades, I and other people who are here, like Mr. João Oliveira, like Mr. Norberto Patinho, like Mr. Pedro do Carmo and others, beat us for this undertaking and, over these years, we have always seen arguments that diabolicized investment. They began by saying, even unsuspecting and credible voices of our society, that the Alqueva would never fill, because Guadiana had no water for that. For years, we have been fighting the argument that this was a "white elephant", because the irregular Mediterranean system would make it regular, but Alqueva has already filled three times. Next, it was said that the price of water would never be competitive, that there was no culture that could be profitable. We have also shown that at the price of water — which this government has already fallen by 30 % — it is possible to have all these profitable crops. Then there were those who said, credible voices of our society, that it was an undertaking that would only serve to install golf courses. To tell you the truth, I don't know any golf courses in the nearly 100,000 ha already installed. Now, in the last few months, this story of the olive tree comes. This diabolization of the olive must be clarified and disassembled, as were all the others. I therefore consider that Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have demonstrated in this debate that this is a problem that obviously needs to be studied. We do not say that there are no negative impacts — all human activities on the territory, on soils, have negative impacts. It has been shown that the Government is studying them and that it is open to take the measures which are technically and scientifically justified to correct any deviations or any problems that arise in the environment or in public health, whatever. It has also been shown that olive growing, as an agricultural activity of the olive crop, has nothing to do with the industrial pollution of two or three agricultural units in the Alentejo which have come, in the public opinion and in the press, to demonstrate that there are problems that arise for the communities. But I would like to tell you that, for example, in Andalusia, where similar problems have arisen, the factories, instead of using the olive slurry as fuel, began to use gas and ended the pollution! It is therefore an environmental issue. If the rules are not met, the factories must be closed to the limit. In fact, I have followed some cases of some villages — in fact, they are two concrete factories — and I am entirely supportive of those populations. I would not like to live in a house, in a village or in a village where I had to close the windows in order not to have the house fattened. That is, from my point of view, intolerable. If there is environmental legislation, it must be applied and, in essence, it must either change the fuel, or close the factory. I don't think there's another option. It was also, I believe, fully demonstrated the importance of this economic activity for the country. We produced, less than 20 years ago, 40 % of our oil needs. In fact, we were self-sufficient in the 1950s and then, with the common agricultural policy, subsidies were given to start olive trees. They will remember that in the 1980s subsidies were given to start olive trees; thousands of hectares of olive trees were taken away, and the country lost its independence in this matter. We moved from self-supply to about 40% of self-consumption. At present, we have already produced 150 % of our needs and have an enormous capacity to expand the olive. I look, for example, at Trás-os-Montes, which I still visited the other day and where I was with technicians. Give water to Trás-os-Montes and there will have another huge potential for the olive. That's why we're also investing in the irrigation in Tres-os-Montes. I believe that we cannot mix up any activity that is done, in principle, with strict compliance with the legislation, because the European Union has the strictest rules, either in the use of pesticides or in the use of fertilizers, or in the control of the final product. I would once again draw your attention to this, which is very important. Products, in particular olive oil, are strictly controlled in destination. If there was ever a problem with chemicals or other products that were harmful to health, do you think a market like German, like the American, like the Canadian, were impatienced and serene and said nothing? No, no, no. The product is good because cultural practices respect the international standards that we are obliged to comply with. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in short, what I would like to say is that the Government will always be attentive to the initiatives of this House, ready to welcome them whenever they are justified and available to provide all the elements. In fact, as I told you, I commissioned the National Institute for Agricultural and Veterinary Research to conduct an in-depth study on all the components that have to do with olive trees: soil, water, plant nutrition...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u96	Mr. Minister, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u97	I'm sorry, Mr. President. As I said, I will end this speech by thanking the Greens Ecological Party once again, because I think that bringing this issue to debate was very useful, and I reiterate to everyone the Government's willingness to work with Parliament on this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u98	To close the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor on behalf of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : If you want to remember things that have been said and even defended in the past, it is not that you are comparing exactly the reality and the species in particular, but perhaps the Minister will understand what the Greens want to say — I remind you that, many years ago, the monocultures of eucalyptus by that country were also very much defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u100	It was the future!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u101	Yes, the Minister will remember: it was said that he gave a lot of work, which generated an enormous economic dynamics for our forest! Today, I think everyone can already see the trail that has spread out this country. Do you know what the dynamics are for, Minister? of forest fires. Now remember, Mr Minister, what has been lost in terms of employment with this forest fire drama and what has been lost in our forest. Why are we fighting today? For the native forest, Minister. We have nothing against the species eucalyptus, but, yes, against the immense stains of eucalyptus monoculture. That was one of the misfortunes of our forest. On this particular debate, let us see if we do not make the same mistake as regards intensive olives with other consequences, namely serious consequences for climate change: soil saturation, soil desertification and water consumption. And we'll see if, a few years from now, we're not all in the head saying, "What did we do? We really need traditional olives." The Greens, Minister, are alerting in good time. Mr Minister wanted a serious debate, but it was Mr Minister who contributed to a little serious debate, saying that all this has environmental costs but that putting a garden at home also has environmental costs. Minister, do you want to compare these two realities? I think saying that is really not taking what is being discussed seriously. The Minister also said: « You are helping people to think that consuming olive oil is very dangerous». Mr. Minister, for God's sake! Frankly, that is not giving serious consideration to the debate, and the Minister knows perfectly well that this is not what is at stake. If you want to talk about quality, you might even have to talk about traditional olives and, perhaps, you have to even refer the logic of quantity to intensive and superintensive olives, because this was the first priority of this type of model, let's say so, olives. The Minister also does not give serious consideration to the debate when he says: « We are not sure whether there is mortality of birds or not due to the mechanical collection of olive oil, but if there is, it is because biodiversity exists». Mr Minister, that really does not bring any seriousness to the debate! Mr. Minister wants an euphemism for the issue of superintensive, but it is also not worth being squatting the reality, because he knows that when crops are of great density they use more pesticides and more fertilizers. Yes, the Minister knows that with these high density crops there are more phytosanitary problems. These problems spread in a completely different and faster way. The Minister knows this, as he also knows, that the environmental burden of these intensive and superintensive cultures is much greater. The problem of soil saturation is more intense and the problem of the use of water is also more intense. Mr Minister, we should have learned about problems that have arisen in the past. We are always saying that economic issues are not incompatible with environmental issues, but when it is placed in the balance sheet or when it has to be decided on an economic or environmental matter, because economic matters are always in use, even if environmental impacts are gross and can bring serious problems in the future. One of the problems of successive governments is that they have had a very short-term vision and have no medium- and long-term vision. We are dealing with a serious problem with climate change, and I will repeat this, Mr Minister, which they require, to urgently call for proposals and adaptation measures in the agricultural field. The Minister should be taking broad steps towards adapting our territory to climate change. And I am referring again to the fact that there are concrete studies on Alentejo that say that, if everything goes on in the same way, we will have a serious problem of desertification of soils. Then come here and talk about food sovereignty, Minister! Then we have nowhere to grow! So look carefully at what we are doing in the present with an impact on the future. Even to finish, I would also like to tell Mr Minister that it is good to hear the people and what they are dealing with every day. It cannot be all the wrong populations, all the wrong autoarchs, all the wrong associations and, after all, only the government and the right are right! in this matter, it cannot be so! I therefore advise the Minister to go to the field and to listen specifically to the people. Even to finish, I mean that Mr. Minister says: "So now the government is going to dictate a distance between the extreme of intensive and superintensive culture and housing? Oh, my God! » Yes! Yes, that is a proposal made by the Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u102	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u103	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Minister, they have also done the same with regard to transgenic crops,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u104	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u105	... in which the question of contamination was raised. Why did the government do it? Ah! It was the European Union and the multinationals who said so, wasn't it, Minister? Open... [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this urgent debate. of the second item on the agenda is the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 290 / XIII — Maintenance of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service. The Bureau noted Mr André Silva, of the NAP, for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u107	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, we have examined the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 290/ XIII concerning the exploitation of pharmacy in hospital, vetoed and returned by Mr. President of the Republic. The NAP did not follow this diploma favourably, insofar as, as underlined in the text of the message of the President of the Republic concerning the return of the diploma, where further clarification of its exceptional and singular character is requested, the NAP presented a draft law which intended to re-establish, in general and abstract terms, the 2009 regime, having been this plumbed proposal. Thus, we have always considered that the adopted solution does not comply with the dictates enshrined in the Basic Law by referring to an entity individually and concretely, which is why it will have been the subject of a presidential veto. Furthermore, Mr President, he is questioning the option for a solution which does not include a general and abstract formula, which can be applied more than a de facto situation and more than a recipient entity. We maintain our position regarding the need for the maintenance of pharmacy in the hospital environment, but the path should be that of the re-establishment of the 2009 regime. In response to a question posed by the NAP, the Ministry of Health acknowledged that the eventual end of this service in Beatriz Angelo would represent an effective loss of quality of service provided by the hospital and would create numerous inconveniences and inconveniences for thousands of patients who daily use it. We note that this initiative aims to protect users, even more legitimized by the study of the national impact of pharmacy in hospitals of the National Health Service ( SNS ), carried out by Pordata, which leaves the possibility of negative or predatory impacts on the variation of the number of pharmacy in the areas of influence of hospitals and their cities. It concludes the study that, in addition to optimising accessibility to the medicinal product, there is no risk of deterioration of the pharmacy network, and therefore the revocation of the regime, intended by the Government, should be reviewed. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, considering the public interest based on the urgent needs of patients, coupled with the non-observance of negative impacts arising from the existence of pharmacy in the hospital environment, we believe that the diploma governing this regime should be reintroduced, based on a general and abstract regulatory framework, in accordance with the proposal we have tabled. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u108	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. at present, the Bureau no longer registers, so we will move on to the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mr Luís Graça of the Socialist Party signed up for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr President of the Republic has vetoed the legislative body that Parliament has produced on the possibility of direct sales pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service and has raised three questions to which I believe it was important to try to answer. The first question was: "Why does it exclude the direct management of the concrete pharmacy to which it is headed by the hospital itself instead of choosing to grant such management? We do not want this possibility to be excluded because the law that allows the most also allows the least. But it is worth remembering that it was the 2009 enabling decree-law that established that it was the concession of the regime that should be followed. The second question put by Mr President of the Republic was: "Why, by opting for the grant, approves only one in particular, excluding the reprisination of the abstract concession regime? Do not keep on seeking. ” It is worth reading the preamble of the decree-law which, in 2016, extinguished the enabling decree-law : « Since, as a result of the experience relating to the installation and operation of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service, it is found that the principles of public interest and accessibility that presided over the implementation of this regime have not been demonstrated (...) ». In fact, of the seven pharmacies created, only one still worked in 2016. There was, therefore, no doubt about the need for a law that, despite its theoretical kindness, did not come to be confirmed in reality. However, a group of citizens, dissatisfied with this decision, advanced with a legislative initiative, reminding Parliament and the Members that there was a pharmacy that worked, which was an SME Excellence, fulfilled their contractual and fiscal obligations, whose social relevance was witnessed by the authorships of all the councils covered by the Beatriz Angelo Hospital and therefore deserved Parliament's re-evaluation. This is what the House did, firstly, by approving the citizens' legislative initiative through a number of Members and then by contributing to a new legislative drafting which, not repeating an experience that had not had an effect, allowed the citizens, where they recognized merit, to keep the service provided. The third question was: « Why, in making sense the existence of a concession only in concrete, do you intend to privilege a certain private entity(... )? And why, in doing so by individual law, does the opening-up of public tenders depart without the right of preference(...)? Do not keep on seeking. ” In fact, this issue also stems from the enabling law, which established that the pharmacies opened in the first public tender would have the right of preference in the two subsequent public tenders. Parliament has not introduced any new rights. There is, however, a warning with which we must all agree: the veto of Mr President is decreed at a time when the pharmacy of the Beatriz Angelo Hospital is already closed, since, in this period of time, the contract has come to an end. Therefore, despite the efforts of the citizens of Parliament and, we are certain, also of the President of the Republic, the time elapsed has ended by closing the only drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in SNS hospitals, which means that today it is no longer possible to preserve the situation that the legislative initiative of citizens asks Parliament to preserve, thus losing the usefulness of the initiative. I said, Mr. President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u110	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate results from the return to the Assembly of the Republic, by Mr President of the Republic, last May, of the diploma that allows the maintenance of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service, a diploma of initiative of citizens whose importance is never too much emphasized. The truth, however, is that the object of this diploma, which received many votes in favour of several Members of the Socialist Party, as the current one, is in practice focused on the pharmacy that worked at the Loures hospital, since it was the only one that had been in operation since its opening. The other pharmacies launched under the legislation approved by the governments of José Socrates had already resorted successively to insolvency situations, leaving even heavy debts to the State. It is worth noting, therefore, that it was once again a socialist government, now that of António Costa, which, in 2016, as has already been said, decided to prohibit these pharmacies in the spaces of SNS hospitals. As if this contradiction between two socialist governments were not enough, the PS Parliamentary Group came to pass a diploma — which we have now appreciated — by which it pretended to keep open precisely the pharmacy which its Government had decided to close, which had its final confirmation with its closure on 2 April. In fact, the Socialist Party was well aware that the final version of the diploma it approved radically altered the content of the popular legislative initiative to which it respected it. In fact, the PS replaced the generality and abstraction that characterized the Bill No. 995 / XIII / 4. a by a concrete and individual solution, because it applies to a single de facto situation and to a single recipient entity. This is what Mr. President of the Republic said and so does the PSD, which does not cover this case-by-case approach, which only addresses a concrete concession and an existing specific concessionaire. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I have already had the opportunity to say in this House, with regard to this same legislative process, the PSD believes in the search for solutions framed, sustainable, serving the true interests of all Portuguese. We understand that the problems and aspirations of citizens must be seriously and structurally weighed, not on account of the political conveniences of the occasion, which only distort their expectations. The grave situation that the country is experiencing, in terms of access to health care services, can only be overcome with a government that is truly at the service of the people and that does not instrumentalize them at the service of agendas and skills that have nothing to do with the legitimate interests of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u113	Mr President, the issue of the dispensation of medicines from hospital pharmacies, which we are discussing today, has already been properly framed and I therefore refrain from extending myself on this matter. However, I remember that, at the time we had the previous debate, we said that we were not available to reprisal a decree which proved to be a failure, with clear negative consequences for the State. We said it at the time and we keep it today, so we are as we were previously in this matter. We also mentioned that we understood that this House does not have to make adequate laws for a particular case, for a certain private and private entity and, therefore, we maintain that same attitude. What we say does not prevent us from recognizing the social role that the pharmacy has had while it has worked, nor does it acknowledge what, for us, is fundamental in this debate: to guard the interests of the people of Loures, of those who have health needs in that area, to guard the interests of all Portuguese and not to harm the State through models that are obviously not properly framed. Therefore, we understand that there is no room for re-establishing the law, as we said at the beginning. So, what this government has to worry about is, above all, not to let cases and cases of lack of access to health care and poor quality in the provision of health care and change the panorama that, sadly, has settled in health in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u114	The next intervention on behalf of the CFP is Mrs Carla Cruz. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the light of the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 290 / XIII, following the presidential veto, we reaffirm what we have assumed throughout the legislative process that gave rise to it, i.e. that we went and are against the legal regime — Decree-Law No 241 / 2009 of 16 September – which authorised the opening and operation of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service. We assume this position because we understand that, in hospitals of the National Health Service, private structures linked to the provision of health care and/or medicines should not be accommodated, as is the case with these medicines. By not abdicating this principle, we have decided to intervene at all stages of the legislative process, both in general and in specialty, in order to ensure a solution that would safeguard jobs and accessibility to medicines by users. It was therefore in this context that we presented, as a specialist, a proposal for an amendment to the drafting of the proposal then put forward by the PS Parliamentary Group. In our proposal, the continuation of hospital pharmacies existing on 1 March 2019 was admitted as exceptional and it was determined that the launch of the public tender would have to take place within a maximum of three months. This last proposal was rejected, which was taken into account at the present time in the overall final vote. Even with the doubts raised in the presidential veto, we believe that the diploma should not be vetoed and, in order to safeguard the jobs and access of patients to medicines, we believe that the diploma should be confirmed. The PCP reaffirms its commitment to always defending the National Health Service, improving and removing all existing obstacles that prevent patients from accessing the National Health Service, but also to the drugs and therapy they need. We also reaffirm here the commitment to always defend all workers and their rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u116	The next intervention is Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decree-law that we are re-appreciating, which was vetoed by Mr. President of the Republic, resulted from a legislative initiative which had the vote against the Left Block. Let it be clear that we will keep that vote. This legislative initiative had as its starting point an initiative of citizens who addressed the Assembly, saying that for a better accessibility to medicines, for a better accessibility to pharmacy, it suggested re-establishing a legal regime that would allow the installation of private persons in any hospital of the National Health Service. At the time, we said that we would not accept such a regime and we proposed, moreover, an alternative that was passed through hospital pharmacies, that already exist in all hospitals, and that are those who prepare medicines, distribute the medicines for hospitalization, for surgery, etc. , they can provide medicines to the public. This proposal of the Left Block had numerous advantages: it was fulfilled the objective of accessibility to therapies and medicines; it would guarantee-CL a lower price for the National Health Service and for the user and it was even possible, in this way, to reduce waste and promote the dispensation in unity. Unfortunately, this proposal was cast with votes against PSD, PS and CDS, preferring therefore to opt for another solution, which would be to allow the installation of private individuals in hospitals of the National Health Service. From there to the specialty and the truth is that, in particular, a significant change was made to what was the citizens' legislative initiative and what was the reprisal of a regime that completely opened hospitals to the private facility became a fact tailored to a specific case, something that could never have happened, but it happened. We therefore consider that the law cannot be made for particular cases and that is why we will not reconfirm the decree, we will vote against, as we have always voted against. We also believe that the solution is not to reprisal a decree that opens public hospitals to private facilities and, therefore, we will vote against the proposal that the NAP brings here, because this is the practical result of this proposal, i.e. to unlock the National Health Service to private facilities. We are, of course, available to discuss the solution that we have always brought to this debate, which is to make hospital pharmacies — and to stress again that there are already in all hospitals — they can have investment and they can also make the hospital dispensation. That is the best solution for all sides. We will certainly continue to be available for this debate, but we will not be available for tailored laws, nor for opening up SNS hospitals to private facilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u118	Mrs. Members, having completed this item on the agenda, we move on to the third point, which consists of the assessment of the 2017 General Account. For your presentation, you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017 and 2018, the budget deficit reached the historic minimums of democracy — 0, 9 % and 0, 5 % respectively. This budgetary balance was achieved in a framework of stability, confidence, return and increase in employment. In fact, the IRS has been reduced, eliminating the overtax in 2017 and increasing the number of steps - is less than EUR 1000 million of IRS paid annually by the Portuguese. There have been regular increases in pensions and social benefits have improved, such as family allowance and inclusion benefits, salaries have been withheld and careers have been frozen. In the last three years, the unemployment rate has dropped by half from 12, 4 % to 6, 8 %, the lowest since 2002. From 2017 onwards, the Portuguese economy has consistently grown above the euro area. It is difficult to underestimate the very positive impact of this evolution on the lives of all Portuguese people. All this was done in a balanced and sustainable manner and, with the improvement of public accounts, Portugal left the excessive deficit procedure in 2017. Today, for the first time, there is a budgetary deficit similar to that of other European countries. Balanced and credible public accounts allowed public debt to start a reduction trajectory of 129 % in 2016 to 121 % in 2018. We expect public debt to be below 100 % by 2023. Portugal will thus cease to be in the group of countries most heavily indebted and subject to the continuing uncertainty of the evolution of financial markets. The public debt interest rate has today reached the lowest ever 0, 6 % to 10 years. The interest rate paid by the Portuguese two years ago in 2017 was twice the Italian rate; today, Italy's interest rate is that it is three times higher than Portuguese. This marked reduction in interest expenditure, supported by the Portuguese, allows for continued improvement of income and investment in public services and represents a huge oxygen balloon for the entire Portuguese economy. With balanced public accounts, low interest and economic growth, Portuguese can for the first time look to the future with confidence: confidence in the continuation of the return and improvement of living conditions, confidence that, if the European economy comes to slow down, Portugal does not automatically enter into successive deficit procedures, as happened, unfortunately in the past, with the consequent sanctions, interest increases and uncertainty about the economy, confidence that they will not again be subject to increases in taxes and cuts in income. The Portuguese want, yes, to continue to take firm steps to improve their living conditions, balanced and sustainable advancements that do not again call into question all that they have achieved in the last three years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u120	Mrs. Members, the Bureau is looking forward, with some anxiety, to the inscriptions which parliamentary groups will certainly make with great intensity. [[Pause.]] On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr António Gameiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The 2017 State General Account is proof that good budgetary management can remove inadequate budgetary management and that, after all, the devil did not come. The value of the government budget deficit in 2017 was set at the lowest and most historic deficit in Portuguese democracy: 0, 9 %. Therefore this value, which is also accompanied by the highest government debt reduction of the last 20 years to 125, 7 %, matches well, and proves, the effort of certain accounts, of rigour in budgetary implementation and of ability to converge Portugal with most euro area and European Union countries. This value is mainly due to the strong growth in tax revenue plus 1, 7 %, to higher interest savings minus 0, 2 %, which corresponded to a saving of EUR 822 million this year. It is important not to forget that in 2017 Portugal amortised EUR 10 billion to the IMF. In addition, it maintained the deficit at this level and managed to settle the debt from 128 % to 125 %. But there was savings in current spending, in so-called state fats, that the right would so much like to say that it was necessary to save but was not able to cut. On the other hand, we also had savings in unemployment—yes, because these results accompany a brutal fall in the value of unemployment—and in other social security contributions—but because social security has become more productive, has consumed more and, therefore, has saved in order to be able to transfer to the State budget. There was also a marked increase in social benefits, investment, spending on staff, and thus this accompanied by proving that the replacement of wages, that the replacement of pensions and that the wage and income policy of this government had every reason to be, contrary to what the right, since 2015, here was trying to sell as its narrative. Gross fixed capital formation shows that by increasing EUR 680 million, the economy has increased. It grew, because the Portuguese trusted, it grew because the Portuguese have today, and in 2017, great confidence in the capacity of this government. We had an increase and economic growth of 2, 7 % when the euro area grew 2, 4 % in 2017. In other words, the Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Council, the UTAO, all praise the government and define and underline it as a government of great budgetary capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u122	Mr. Deputies, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u123	So, Mr President, what can be said today, when we look at the General State Account here, is that the Government is pleased, Portugal is pleased, because it was and is on the right track. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u124	Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With today's discussion, in plenary session, and the vote on Friday, we conclude the 2017 account delivery process. In addition to the budgetary and financial dimension, we must call the debate on the human and quality of life of the Portuguese and verify the balance that has resulted from the action of the Government and the majority that supports it. The first word is lamentable, because the year 2017 was painful for the Portuguese, showing how the government's action has left us exposed to all kinds of adversity. The policy of capitulation has translated into the absence of the state and has led us to the lack of protection of the lives of people and goods, reminding us of the great fires of June and October. in this devastating picture, with 116 dead, the destruction of hundreds of housing houses, companies and jobs, nor the pinhal of Leiria, with 800 years of history, resisted! The policy of capitulation has led us - not to ensure national security - to remind ourselves of the theft of weapons in Tankos; the policy of capitulation has led us to the continued degradation of the provision of public services - to the degradation of the quality of the social state which you so much say caressing; and to remind us of the chaos in health, social security or education. The policy of capitulation has led us to the drastic reduction of public investment. We remember the chaotic situation of public transport, the lack of investment in railways, hospitals or schools. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the results we have achieved, we have paid, we continue to pay and we will pay too high a price in the future. The PSD has denounced and continues to denounce that the sharp fall in public investment throughout the legislature will condition public supply to citizens. Investment in infrastructure and equipment represented only 49 % of the 2012 value and 50 % of the budgeted for that year by the Government. The PSD has denounced and continues to report that consolidated public debt has increased and that debt has continued to increase in nominal terms in 2017. Mr. Deputies, they didn't pay the IMF, they transferred the IMF debt to the future!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u127	So they made more debt to pay to the IMF. What happened was that they did not depreciate the debt to the IMF, but constituted debt for the future. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD reported and continues to report that late payments in the purchase of goods and services increased by 80 % and that the entities of the Ministry of Health were responsible for 96% of this total. The PSD has denounced and continues to denounce that the Government is not looking properly at the financing of social security, especially in view of the demographic framework and the impacts of climate change, since positive balances deserve careful analysis because they result from the economic cycle and are influenced by the State budget itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, in 2017 was written a black page and the blackest in the recent history of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u128	Mr President, I would like to ask you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u129	Mr. President, I'll be done. It was a painful year in Portuguese life. Mrs. Members, at the end of the legislature, it is not the PSD that says the way was bad. Let me quote what Mr. Prime Minister said a few days ago: there are public services that function poorly and it is not acceptable how transport, health and the issue of citizenship and passport cards work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u130	Sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u131	If it is the government that claims it, how can it be denied by the PSD? This will never be the PSD option because the PSD option will always be with people and their aspirations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u132	It's got other aspirations!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u133	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: With regard to the 2017 Account, Mr. Secretary of State spoke about some things, but did not talk about others. He talked about growth, but he didn't talk about GDP (gross domestic product) per capita; he talked about unemployment, but he didn't talk about productivity; he talked about deficit, but he didn't talk about tax burden; he talked about interest rates, but he didn't talk about nominal debt. In other words, the Secretary of State spoke of everything that is conjuncural and did not speak, because he could not talk, of everything that is structural. The year 2017 characterizes exactly what was the management of the Socialist Party throughout this Public Finance Legislation: a use, in minimum services, of the most favourable international environment ever since we entered the single currency and the total inability to promote public policy measures that could make this scenario that Portugal benefited could come to have structural effects. To these realities, of which Mr State Secretary did not speak, could add, for example, the question of investment. Mr. Secretary of State could not speak of investment either, nor could he speak of a very important reality, which is never spoken of. There has been a depreciation of existing capital in Portugal from year to year — in 2017 — that is to say, we are losing resources, and from a structural point of view, it obviously has a very harmful effect. He did not talk about public services, because we all know that the degradation of these services has been on the other side of the policy of managing the public finances of the Socialist Government, which is engaged in discussing with its colleagues of coalition realities « micro» or « nano» of the National Health Service. You have been discussing hospitals with PPP for months (public-private partnerships). Hospitals with PPPs are less than 5 % of the total reality of hospitals. What the Portuguese ask themselves is the following: if you care so much about the National Health Service, when will you start to discuss the other 110 hospitals? That's what the Portuguese want to know! [[CDS-PP applause.]] When do you discuss 95% of the health-related financial resources? You are discussing PPPs representing 5% of public health resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u135	How much does it cost?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u136	We cost five percent, Mrs. Member! They cost 5 % of the health budget. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Madam Member, I am very pleased to answer your question: it costs 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u137	And how much profit do you make?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u138	Madam Member, I have already answered your question, now have a little patience. You also have to listen, because we are in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u139	But he agreed that it would be over, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u140	Mr President, the tolerance I request is proportional to the interruption that has been made. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, the questions are the following: when will this government promote the recovery of GDP per capita positions so that Portugal becomes effectively competitive and the Portuguese benefit? When are we going to have vocational training that leads to an increase in productivity?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u141	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u142	When will the tax rates be reduced so that it is not the government that has the benefit of everything else that is produced? When, from a public point of view, will there be an effective reduction in nominal debt? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u143	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We have various ways of discussing the 2017 State General Account. One of them is to debate how job creation has improved public accounts and social security accounts, how it has helped the sustainability of social security, and another is to have a debate on the budgetary choices of the past, to return to discussions on constant deviations and revisions of the ever-low deficit, under-implementation of public investment, suborbation in health, revenue. We can even discuss the Basics of Health Act, as Mr. João Almeida has done here, or we can opt for another aspect and discuss the successive problems of state accounting, the lack of transparency, the inadequate tax expenditure, the successively misaccounted tax benefits in the State General Account, the lack of clarity in how the accounts are being presented every year. All this is possible, all this is done and, indeed, all this is our fairy: every year—past two years! — to debate a reality that has happened two years ago to discuss everything and nothing, as there is more interest in a parliamentary or other group, and to stop a discussion like the one we have here today, which, in fact, has no interest at all. Each discussed what he best understood and this discussion in nothing concerns an analysis that the General State Account deserved, because it is a valid document and should take Parliament's attention. In order for this to happen — we know that this is not a novelty — we need to find a new form of discussion of the General State Account and, for that, it is also necessary to change its timetables. The General Account of the State of 2017 is of interest if it is discussed before the discussion of the State Budget for 2019. There is no other way to do this debate, so that it is not empty, without interest or usefulness, indeed. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, without taking credit for this discussion and much less for a document as important as the General State Account, it is certainly worth it to guarantee other forms and other discussion schedules. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u145	On behalf of the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The opinion of the Court of Auditors on the General Account of the State once again marks a set of reservations, accompanied by recommendations for its resolution, which successive governments continue to not fully implement. It is important that these irregularities in the account are overcome in order to ensure strictness and transparency about the budgetary reality. The year 2017 was marked by a State Budget which, failing the country's needs, allowed the replacement and conquest of rights, as a result of the initiative of the CFP and the struggle of workers and the people. It was possible not only to consolidate positive measures that had already come from 2016 but also to achieve important advances, not only because of its effect on raising the living conditions of the populations but also because of the paths they pointed to the future. There is an increase in the freeness of school textbooks for all 1. the cycle, a 2017 measure that allowed savings of hundreds of euros to families and open the way for free education for all compulsory education in 2019, a path that was possible to follow with the persistence and initiative of the PCP. We see the replacement of half of the Christmas allowance, which was then extended, putting an end to the PSD/CDS government that intended to dilute it and therefore definitely end this subsidy that is conquered by April and conquered by the workers. See the increase in pensions for most pensioners, which was a path that, at the initiative of the CFP, was possible to continue, year after year, making a significant difference after three extraordinary increases in the life of each pensioner, or even the end of the overtax of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons ), created by the PSD / CDS, for all contributors. In 2017, also on a proposal from the CFP, the reduction in the value of the special payment on account ( CFP ), which opened the way for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to be exempted from delivering the CFP. These measures testify to the PCP and the CDU as irreplaceable forces in defending the interests of workers and the people. Mrs. Members, the General State Account also demonstrates the limitations arising from the PS Government's basic options, which have chosen not to distance themselves in essential aspects of right-wing policy and submission to EU and euro dictates. The decision on the sale of the New Bank to Lone Star had consequences in 2018 and 2019, but already in 2017 it identifies - in the General State Account, in vehicles linked to the former BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ), a expenditure of more than EUR 772 million, well above what was planned. Another example is the charges with public-private partnerships, which cost more than EUR 1,632 million, even telling the Court of Auditors that there is no explanation of the disproportion between the net charges of PPPs paid by the State and the investment made in PPPs by private partners, which in 2017 was less than one tenth of the public charges. The public investment, which could hardly fall, continued and continues today at levels below 2010, because the government chose to channel all the margin of manoeuvre it had for the accelerated reduction of the deficit, fulfilling the Brussels taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u147	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u148	The State budget for 2017 and its implementation, as well as the following budgets, confirm that, in order to deepen the replacement of income and rights, in order to respond to the problems of public services, the SNS, the public school, in order to respond to the structural problems of the country, it is necessary to break these taxes and these constraints. That is the way the country needs to ensure a future of development, sovereignty and social progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u149	Here again, Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Why are we here discussing the General State Account? Because Article 107. the Constitution of the Republic states that « The execution of the budget shall be monitored by the Court of Auditors and the Assembly of the Republic, which, prior to the opinion of that court, shall assess and approve the General Account of the State (... ) ». But would this House of Democracy appreciate the General Account of the State for merely legal and constitutional reasons or appreciate it for substantial reasons, i.e. the importance of clarifying both the budgetary performance of the State, the state's financial situation, its assets, the stock of financial debt, non-financial debt, etc. Is that what you're talking about? I will try to answer these questions in the end. Let us begin with the framework: in addition to the opinion of the Court of Auditors, on the 2017 State General Account, the opinions of the Economic and Social Council, UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) and also the sectoral opinions of 12 standing committees sent to COFMA ( Committee on Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernisation ), which in turn made an additional final opinion. In total, 873 pages were written on the 2017 Account. I do not think that 873 pages mean having a robust appreciation of the General State Account and a supervision. It is commonly said that "a lot of information kills information". That's the case. We don't need so many pages written about the Account. We therefore have a structural problem of political appreciation and supervision that needs to be resolved. Let's go, now, to the schedule. Today is June 12th, we are discussing the 2017 Account. The illusions arising from this Account will only have an impact on the 2020 Budget, with another government in office. We need to shorten this period. The new budgetary framework law, which will enter into force in the coming year, in these articles, shortens the period and still well. This is also a structural problem, but it will be solved. The conditions of this parliamentary debate, a three-minute grid, in my view, mean that Parliament does not attach any importance to the General State Account. I repeat: Parliament does not attach any importance to the General State Account, i.e. the supervision of revenue and public expenditure, the financial situation of the country, the indebtedness of the country, and perhaps that is why we went to bankruptcy three times. I'm leaving this for your reflection. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u151	Before we moved to the fourth item on the agenda, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro asked Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u152	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted: Resolution Projects Nos 2189 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Emergency rehabilitation of the Azambuja High School in the district of Lisbon, 2190 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Extension of the free availability of insulin continuous infusion system to individuals aged 18 years and below 9. the Commission, 2192 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Harmonization and enforcement of rights in access to reform for fisheries professionals, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2193 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN, N insc. ) — Established June 22 as National Day of Religious Freedom and Interreligious Dialogue and 2194 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of support for the recovery of Monchique municipality, which falls to 7. the Commission ; Draft Law No 1224 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Forty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code, criminalizing the conduct of those who kill, for no legitimate reason, pet, which goes down to 1. the Commission and the Proposal for a Law No 204 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Establishs the legal regime for the regularisation of "Chons of Improvements". That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u153	We then move to the fourth point of our agenda, with the general debate of Bill No. 1153 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter taxation within IRS so that income becomes taxed in accordance with the actual income of the taxable person in each of the years to which they relate and the effective rate ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November 1988 ). To present this bill, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, we have seen delays in the processing of pensions reaching records. In the words of the Ombudsman, they have been received in the Provedoria of Calling Appeals, and I quote "of persons deprived of their income for indefinite time, forced to work beyond the legal age of the reform, obliged to take temporary pensions for very long periods, and too long, and people who, after the death of a relative, cannot receive the survivor's pension", people who, because of these delays, survive at the expense of their neighbours, family or friends. In 2018, late claims in the processing of pensions were three times more than in 2017. This year, in 2019, they continued to increase. They are people who wait months and months, when they don't wait one or two years to receive their pension. In some cases, they are people who are not working, long-term unemployed, without any other means of subsistence, or, for example, fishermen who deliver their letter and are no longer able to work, when they lose their license and remain without any income until the pension is processed. The Ombudsman says: «it is disturbing to the community of citizens, who cannot fail to remain insecure and trustworthy in a State whose services cannot guarantee, in good time, the right of an elderly citizen to adequate social protection ». She also said: 'The State pays late, without interest and, above all, thanks to its own delay, has an unfair gain in the IRS, further damaging pensioners'.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u156	She also said: «The same state, however, is implacable in the collection of contributions, often undue, demanding much more of the citizens than of itself, which compromises the principle of good faith». The project that the CDS now presents is not a solution to this problem that the government has to solve, is a remedy. But it's a minimum! The minimum requirement for a State that is not complying with its obligations is that it does not then, within IRS (tax on income of natural persons) tax unfairly those who, for example, because of the delay of the State itself lost its exemption, or step up those who, due to the delay of the State itself, would be less taxed. That's the least, gentlemen. Members, who may be required of a State which, when confronted with these complaints and with its increase, always makes excuses for the lack of employees and the lack of persons in social security. For I have a suggestion for that same State and for that same government: take people who are using the means, often even abusive, of tax and social security to collect taxes—for whom there is no lack of labour and never delay—and have them process pensions. Maybe that's not how we need this bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u157	Mr Leonel Costa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What this bill intends is to resume the previous regime, according to which taxpayers could report to the fiscal year to which they actually respected the income they had been paid at a later time, thus allowing the adjustment of the liquidation of IRS of the year to which the incomes respect. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u159	And they can still!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u160	This regime was in force from 1994 to 2000 when the PS, invoking reasons for procedural simplification, gave rise to the current Article 74. the, today under discussion, which leads to situations of manifest injustice. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u161	In essence, a taxpayer now receiving incomes for previous years is obliged to cover these incomes all in one year, which, in view of the rule of progressive tax rate, often implies a higher rate than would be due to separate taxation of those incomes in the effective years to which they respect. The Constitutional Court — although considering that it would be no reason to judge this unconstitutional rule — has already pronounced and made clear the tax injustice that this regime implies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u162	This injustice is even more serious with this government. One of the cases in which the application of this scheme is most likely is that of pensioners. It is chaotic and intolerable the excessive delay of this government in the allocation of pensions for retirement. The current delay, between 12 and 14 months, is not justified to respond to these requests for reform. [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u163	There are several consequences: the obligation to work beyond the legal age of reform; temporary pensions for long periods; people who are deprived of any income for indefinite time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u164	As if this did not happen, this government, which neither the Ombudsman's recommendation has dealt with, in order to reverse this injustice, is still taxed by its own inertia and incapacity. The government wins on all fronts and the taxpayer loses on all sides.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u165	And pay more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u166	In conclusion, it is necessary to question the CDS if, in drafting the bill, it took into account or guarded two distinct realities: that of cases where, on the one hand, the delay in settlement, and consequent delay in payment of the tax, derives from reasons exclusively imputable to the taxable person and, on the other hand, that of cases where this delay is unaccountable to the taxable person, as is the case which I have just referred to the state inertia. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u167	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In previous interventions, very little has been said about the content of the bill, before other things. And I understand the embarrassment, in view of the content of the project.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u169	Embarrassment? Oh, my God! The Portuguese are waiting for solutions and you think it's embarrassing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u170	It is that, contrary to what appears, the bill does not mitigate any problem that exists and actually creates a problem that did not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u172	Let's see. In progressive tax, the problem is: by concentrating, in a year, incomes of several years, there is no other rule, the marginal rate of progressive tax would artificially increase. There are, classically, two ways of resolving this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u173	What are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u174	One of them is to replace all income declarations relating to the taxation years. [[CDS-PP protests.]] The other way of resolving the issue is by having a mitigation standard, such as the one in Article 74. the, which divides the amount paid by the number of years, so as not to cause this marginal rate empolation. Our law, for many years, has had a form of mitigation—which, in fact, has been improved—of this kind. The last time this issue was considered was the reform of the 2014 IRS Code, where this solution was maintained, with the Government — I recall — to which the authors of the two previous interventions and with a State Secretary for Tax Affairs who belongs to the party presenting this initiative. The CDS and PSD, contrary to what might be suggested, do not propose here a solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u175	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u176	...to replace the declarations of previous years. What the CDS proposes is an amendment to the formula. It forms that which remains almost the same, i.e. it continues to divide for several years the amounts received in a single year, but now it sends to apply the rates that were effectively in force in those years. This, in particular, creates a new problem that did not exist. It is that, as the IRS rates have been falling in recent years, the only real practical consequence of this CDS initiative is to pay these revenues received this year not at the rates that now exist but at the rates of the enormous increase in taxes of Minister Vítor Gaspar. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the only practical consequence and that is why this project does not solve any problems and creates a problem that did not exist. If the gentlemen. Members take a spreadsheet and go to do the accounts, taking into account the initiative of the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u177	Sir, I was asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u178	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs. Members, on this spreadsheet, place a pension of €800 per month; then put the correction to more than €1000 per year, six years later; take the settlement account according to the CDS method and will verify that, in this example — and others — the tax to be paid will increase a little more than €200 for the taxpayer concerned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u179	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u180	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's separate the problems in question. The first problem is the delay in paying pensions, which has causes that we can discuss and have solutions that are not under discussion. A few days ago, I had the opportunity to talk to a worker at the National Pension Centre — who, by chance, even is from the PSD, not even from my party — because I wanted to understand the cause of the delays. What has been reported to me is, in fact, very close to what we have discussed here: it is years and years to lose workers, including the years of governance of the PSD and CDS-PP, in which the National Pension Centre has continued to lose workers, and now the hundreds of people who have been hired cannot yet respond to all problems. [[PSD protests.]] You mean it's okay? No, it doesn't mean it's okay. [[PSD protests.]] Does this mean that the State has no responsibility, that this government has no responsibility to solve the problem? Don't! Here...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u181	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u182	...and it has to be faster and competent to solve this problem! Does this mean that there are no reasons for these delays in the cuts of the PSD government and the CDS-PP? No, no, no. There are causes and they are linked to years of austerity and cuts made by the PSD government / CDS-PP. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We are now going to the problem that brings us here, which is this specific case: I think that no one wants to defend unfair rules or that harm taxpayers when these taxpayers are recovering redundancies for dismissal, pensions and wages that are theirs. No one here wants to harm any contributor. We must examine whether the proposals in question solve the problem, whether they improve what exists, whether it is possible to do better, or whether what exists is as much as possible. currently, when the income is received and reported to previous years, it is divided by the number of years in which it already exists and the rate is calculated for a plot, which corresponds to the current plot, to which the current rate of IRS applies. This rule may be harmful if the current rate is lower and may be more beneficial if the current rate is higher. So it depends. It is not clear that this harms or benefits taxpayers, depends on the current rate of IRS being higher or less than the rate that was in force at the time the incomes concern. The CDS proposes that the income be divided and taxed at the rate of the years to which it relates. This has already been mentioned a case in which this would be harmful: if these years correspond to the years of the brutal increase in taxes of Vítor Gaspar, taxpayers will end up paying more tax and that is perhaps more unfair. I still have another problem with this project: I do not understand what rate it refers to, whether it refers to the marginal rate or the average rate. It is not clear in the project at which rate it refers and if, for example, the average rate has been applied since I say it is unfair, because an increase in income must correspond to an adjustment of the rates to be paid. There is another problem which has not been mentioned here, the question of deductions, which is not solved: if the taxpayer had received the income all year round as far as it concerned, perhaps, it would have had a potential for deductions greater than that which he had actually been able to enjoy. That problem is not solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u183	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u184	I will finish, Mr. President. There is only one way to resolve this problem in a fair, effective and detailed way, which is the taxpayer concerned to correct all their IRS statements. And then you have to do the IRS statements again, which is not covered here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u185	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u186	The alternative is to create a new rule and we have no guarantees at this time—we are still reflecting—that this rule is better than that which currently exists. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u187	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law that the CDS brings today is designed to solve a problem with the taxation, within IRS, of revenues taken in previous years. Until 2000 this problem simply did not exist. Until that year, the IRS Code allowed taxpayers to report income from years prior to the years in which these incomes were actually produced, thus ensuring that taxpayers were not harmed, i.e., that they paid no more tax than they were due. The problem arose in 2001, with the elimination of the possibility of reporting and the introduction of an approximate calculation of the IRS to be settled. The method of calculation was changed over the years, but the problem remained: taxpayers can be harmed, paying more tax than that would result if income reporting was allowed. Over the past 18 years, the CDS, which has been in government several times, could have solved this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u189	Well, remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u190	For example, why did you not resolve this at the time of the reform of the IRS in 2014 when the State Secretary for Tax Affairs was the CDS? He didn't solve the problem because he didn't want to! I could have done it, but that was not your option. The option of the CDS, whenever it was in the government, was to ignore this problem and make taxpayers pay more IRS. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Now that you are in opposition, the CDS suddenly recalls the injustice that this represents for taxpayers and proposes a solution. It's the CDS again trying to whiten your past. It is the CDS, for the last time, to propose in the opposition what I didn't want to do when I was in government. It is the CDS, in opposition, trying to look like the taxpayer's friendly party, the same CDS that, when it was in government, along with the PSD, was the party that massacred the lowest-income taxpayers by imposing a brutal increase in IRS, IMI and excise duties. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u191	Four PCP Budgets! The PCP looks like 5sec!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problem, within IRS, with the taxation of previous years' incomes is a real problem, a problem that must be solved. But the solution proposed by the CDS is not the most appropriate, since, despite applying the tax rate due each year, it continues to divide the income by the number of years, which causes distortions in the clearance of the tax to be settled. The most appropriate solution, which was also in force until the end of 2000, will be to allow the incomes of previous years to be reported to the years in which they were actually produced, ensuring that the tax to be paid is exactly what would result if the incomes had been declared in the year in which they were generated. The PCP is available to discuss, in the specialty, the draft law of the CDS, seeking a more appropriate solution than the one proposed by the CDS for the problem of taxation of revenues taken in previous years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u193	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are trying to solve an administrative problem from a legislative point of view. The problem that we have in hand applies largely to late pensions, which, because they are paid late, will fall into an IRS a year later. That is an administrative problem, it is not a political problem. The CDS solution is technically a bad solution. In fact, the wording itself— 'applying to each year or fraction to which the rate is respected'— raises two problems: first, the rate does not apply to one year, it applies to one year's income; second, there is no rate of IRS, there are several marginal rates affecting any income. So technically, it's bad. Now, the question is whether there is any progress in relation to the current situation. There isn't, indeed! Today, a pensioner who receives 20 000 euros of pensions from previous years will report and will already divide that income by the same methodology as the CDS proposes for the different years, applying the rates of the current year. Mr Andrade has already said that the only difference is that what is being applied to these incomes, which are divided, is the current rates. And this can benefit the taxpayer—as has already been mentioned, and well! — or may penalise the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u195	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u196	The solution proposed by the CFP is the most just solution, but it does a great deal of work for the tax authority and in certain beneficial cases, but in others it harms the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u197	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u198	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that I would like the CFP to clarify the costs of that solution, which is not possible and that is not the solution in the CDS proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u199	On behalf of the proposed Parliamentary Group on this initiative, the CDS-PP has the floor to close this debate, Mr Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fundamental problem that this bill wants to answer, and not solve, is the problem of delay in the processing of pensions, which has increased much, but even much, and is not the CDS that says so, is the Ombudsman. It is to this fundamental problem that, with the exception of the PSD, the PS, the Left Block and the PCP have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u201	That is not what you are debating!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u202	He didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u203	to pensioners who wait and despair — months, one year, two years waiting for the processing of a pension — the PS has absolutely nothing to say and the Left Block and the PCP what they have to say is that the blame is for the previous government. This is called the whitening of your present.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u204	What is not the fault of the previous government? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u205	Today's pensioners, nothing, but nothing at all, have to say. With regard to the solution that applies, it is true that pensioners, but also to other situations, as is the case, for example, with redundancies, which are often also delayed, there are two plans for analysis, one political plan. Do we or do we not agree that there is a problem here?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u206	If there's one now, there'd be two problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u207	The better it would not be, is it true, the better it would be pensions to be processed in time and time, but, when there is a problem, do we agree that there is a problem to solve with your taxation? I didn't hear a word of disagreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u208	He does not speak of the bill because he is ashamed of the proposal he has made!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u209	The other plan is the technical issue. Mrs. Members, the CDS has complete openness to all the solutions that technically respond to this problem and to the recommendations of the Ombudsman, provided that it is ensured that pensioners who would not be taxed, if they had received in time and time, are no longer taxed. It's as simple as that. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the matter is embarrassing you. It's just evidence that they're ashamed and it's normal to have it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u210	The honourable Member is not talking about the proposal she has made!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u211	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to say, especially to the honourable Member who has already been Secretary for Tax Affairs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u212	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u213	...that I can even see that you, between pensioners and financial technicians, would rather side with the problems of financial technicians, but in my case, I am putting myself next to pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u214	Get up now! Get up now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u215	Mr. Rocha Andrade, it was...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u216	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u217	Mr President, if you get me not to be interrupted, maybe I can finish quickly. It is unfortunate that when you were the Secretary of State with the custody of this matter, you did not solve it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u218	We now move on to the fifth point of our agenda, which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 1216 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the freeness of school textbooks in compulsory education in public education and 1218 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Free school textbooks for students who attend compulsory education in the public education network of the Ministry of Education ( Second Amendment to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August ). To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Walls, roofs, secretaries, chairs and equipment. If it is true that it is mainly of the people who are made a school, no one questions being those some of the universal material elements that constitute it, serving all students in their school journey. The school textbooks should also be looked at in this way, especially in view of the responsibilities which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic places on the State in the field of education. At the initiative of the PCP, the progressive freeness of school textbooks for all compulsory education was included as an objective for this legislature. Thus, in the 2016 State Budget, on a proposal from the CFP, the free manuals were consecrated for all children who started their school course in the 2016 / 2017 academic year, as it was extended the following year to all students of the 1. the cycle of basic education. Continuing this walk, the PCP proposed, and was approved in the State Budget for 2018, the extension of freeness to all children of the 2. the cycle of basic education. Already in the State Budget for 2019, the right to free distribution of school textbooks, at the beginning of the academic year 2019 / 2020, is gained to all students who attend compulsory education in the public network of the Ministry of Education. The free distribution of school textbooks is a measure of enormous social scope, helping to combat situations of inequality in access to education for economic and social reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u220	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u221	The CFP has also put, during the process of implementing the freeness of school textbooks, practical issues that need to be corrected, so that such a relevant measure cannot be stained by purely operational negative aspects. However, what we bring here today is precisely the guarantee that it will not go back, putting in the law of school textbooks what has been achieved, through the proposals, at the heart of the State budgets for 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. We say and reaffirm that in this case too it is demonstrated that, with the contribution and decisive role of the CFP, we are not doomed to have as a way the liquidation of rights or the worsening of the living conditions of workers and the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u222	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u223	On the contrary, it is with the conquest of more rights and with more incomes than the country is advancing. For the PCP, the public school, universal, free, quality and for everyone corresponds to the model that best serves the interests and rights of all. It is in the defense of this project, by affirming and valuing public school responses that the CFP will continue to act and intervene. We will continue to defend this right of free school textbooks for all compulsory schooling. A relevant step that needs to be defended, which needs to be guaranteed and included in the letter of law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u224	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the increase in compulsory education for 12 years, democratization and the massification of secondary education have brought new challenges for the organization of education. Although education is compulsory up to 12. this year, that doesn't mean your frequency is completely free. No one pays a tip to attend public school, but there are many costs associated with this frequency that represent increased costs for families. The school textbooks became the nightmare of many families at the beginning of each school year, in the nightmare of September. It was a very large cost, of 200, 300 or 400 €—to double or triple whenever a family has more than one child—that all families had to bear to purchase the necessary school textbooks. The municipalities had the perception of the weight of school textbooks in the family budget in Portugal and therefore some of them decided to offer them up to some levels of education, following, in fact, policies that, from a European point of view, are already widely disseminated and practiced in many countries of Europe. In the negotiations between the left-wing parties and the government it was determined that the inequality between students and families from one municipality to another was not the right way to guarantee the constitutional right to education and that a national policy of free education manuals should be adopted. It is this policy that we want now to be guaranteed by law, and not only in the negotiation Budget, reaching this school year until 12. the year of education. We have four objectives with this bill. One is to ensure that the policy of free school textbooks is not a caretaker. Free education is not a charity for the poor, it is a constitutional design and a state policy, a policy of national strategic development, and that is why free school textbooks should be understood as a continuity of compulsory and free education. Secondly, we wanted to ensure that the freeness of school textbooks is not an income for publishers. Re-use is therefore a policy that must be promoted and for which manuals must be prepared, also for environmental reasons. Thus, both for environmental reasons and for children's health issues, we also wanted to strengthen in this law the intentions that have existed to dematerialize school textbooks. Finally, we wanted to ensure and strengthen the idea, which already exists, that the manuals should not promote discriminatory views of society that are contrary to human rights, the Constitution and the profile of students out of compulsory education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u226	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today we are witnessing one more escape exercise in confrontation with reality. We discussed the State budget, the promises, in months and a half, their confrontation with reality we discussed - in half an hour. This is the mark of parliamentary debates, the mark of this House, which pleases this majority but which is neither transparent nor responsible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u229	The point we are now discussing is also of responsibility. To link the path, I reiterate that the PSD is in favour of the distribution and loan of school textbooks to compulsory school students. PSD has reservations about the form and mode in its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u230	You've changed your position!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u231	Reservations as to the future sustainability of this permanent expenditure which is assumed, a expenditure not fully envisaged in the State budgets already approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u233	Reservations concerning the justice of the measure, because it benefits those who can and not those who actually need it. It is not worth entering into the discussion between the social state and the welfare state. We know that, in addition to school textbooks, the conditions of educational success depend on access to so many other educational resources: more officials and specialized human resources, better equipment, more investment and requalification, more appreciation of teachers. All this left to the abandonment by the current majority in these four years, not in speeches but in concrete facts experienced in schools by educators, teachers, students and families. It has been four years of de-investment, all institutions that are responsible for monitoring the execution of the accounts of the State and cannot use the swindling excuse for the responsibility of the others. They cannot because they ignore that they have benefited from the joint effort that all Portuguese have made to remove the country from bankruptcy to which the governments of the Socialist Party led the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u235	We have discussed two bills which, first and foremost, reveal the lack of trust of partners in the government that they support. They're two different projects. The one from the Left Block, markedly ideological, goes a lot beyond what they say they want to solve. [[BE's protests.]] They want to impose an agenda, even beyond the constitutional principles already preserved in the legislation in force. It is intrusive in preventing schools from adopting educational instruments and resources that they consider fundamental to learning and educational success and is revealing the totalitarian slope of the Left Block by replacing the democratic process of social consultation. Already the PCP project, I had to read and read. Apparently, the CFP is moving away from its position, now providing for access to all, without discrimination, even without the condition of appeal, whether they study in public or in private. It is said that it is more consistent with the constitutional text, but is this really what you are defending? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u237	It's in the preamble.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u238	The PSD will maintain, consistently and responsibly, all that it has always said and presented throughout this legislature. Let us keep the reservations that we have always demonstrated, in the absence of a fair principle of a condition of resources. There is still so much to do to provide schools of means that we do not think appropriate that rich, remedied or poor benefit equally. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u239	The next intervention lies with Mrs Odete João of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has been implementing the free of charge of school textbooks throughout this legislature. In fact, this measure contained, and it shows, the Programme of the current Government, a very significant advance in respect of the obligations of the State in fulfilling the Constitution. We recognize that everything has not been done, we recognise that it is not done in one day, but this is an unmistakable step forward in combating inequalities and school failure. This is a measure of appreciation of the people that the PS has entered as priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u242	The free system includes a public policy of sustainability with the reuse of manuals, re-use which is still taking the first steps and still requires deepening. However, re-use contributes to promoting environmental citizenship and encouraging the circular economy, as well as promoting economic and financial sustainability, while developing habits and attitudes of social responsibility and sharing of fundamental resources for our society. On the other hand, the freeness of the manuals drives the development of new educational patterns. From then on, it includes opening up new pedagogical practices. Many educational agents consider it desirable to evolve into learning environments where the school manual ceases to be the privileged source of knowledge and information, assuming that we can be in front of more successful environments of curriculum development. The measure should also be friendly to all schools that choose not to adopt any manual—because this is not mandatory, it is part of the autonomy of schools—and who prefer, for example, to enrich the resources they share at the resource centre or in the school library. This measure can also promote pedagogical innovation, enhance the use of digital materials, encourage their production by schools themselves and release, once and for all, the digital association with the paper book. The bills under discussion, the PCP and the Block, seek to enshrine in Law No. 47 / 2006 the provisions in successive State budgets, as regards the freeness of school textbooks for compulsory public education students. However, although it is the preamble to the CFP initiative that this measure is intended for compulsory public education students, I wonder whether the scope is effectively that since this is not explicit in its articulation. Finally, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group agrees with the progressive consolidation of the measure of school textbooks, always associated with their reuse, for the reasons we have already pointed out, but we believe that a more comprehensive vision is needed, which is lacking in the projects under consideration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u243	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the bills that we have before us, the Left Block and the PCP want the free school textbooks to be passed the form of law, but this irresponsibility, which began in the first year of the government's term of office, now aims at the full compulsory education of the public education network. Without having had the opportunity to ascertain the results of the current measure, the estimate of the Institute of Financial Management of Education and the opinion of the Court of Auditors, which considers that there are no conditions of sustainability and accuses the Government of suborbiting in EUR 100 million. However, it is not paid to bookstores, which are already owed more than 3 million euros, and the fantastic indicator of 4 % reuse is despised, despite the fact that it is already inevitable in the years of examination, the first cycle and foreign language disciplines. It is about to recall the recent statements by the Secretary of State for Education, who said, and I quote, that «the problem of free availability of school textbooks is reuse. Without it, it will not be possible to maintain the measure, under the penalty of creating a problem of budgetary sustainability". Despite this state of affairs, the proponents intend to cover 12 years of compulsory education, about eight million manuals in the hands of one million and one hundred thousand students, more or less, although they have deliberately excluded other relevant didactic-pedagogic resources, as is the case with the activity books. Act, the PCP and the Left Block, as if it were nothing, as if it didn't mean to burden the future seriously and indefinitely.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u246	Austerity still lives there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u247	It is that, in this way, even without the outcome of the evaluation and even before the end of the legislature, they seek to ensure the continuation of the measure, withdrawing it from the annual decision of the State budget. This is not to say about constitutional problems, which are closely linked to the fact that the proposed amendments are clearly contrary to the principle of equality when they are intended to give priority only to students attending public schools. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] Not that it was not expected that the Left Block and the PCP would give up, in this case, the opportunity to send another attack on students and families who choose private education. On the contrary, as you can see! [[Protests of BE and PCP and CDS-PP counterprotests.]] By making it cheap the obvious redundancy resulting from legislation on what is already planned and regulated in several diplomas, as well as the patent logistical complexity of implementation, convert to law a measure whose assessment is expected to be concluded only at the end of the spring of 2019 - 2020 is at least gravely hasty. Finally, it is our duty and yours, ladies and gentlemen. Members, acknowledge and stress that the intended freeness of teaching, expressly enshrined in our Constitution, does not exempt or dispense with the indispensable conditions of sustainability. In the specific case of school textbooks, the CDS argues that freeness must be subject to a resource condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u248	Condition of poverty!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u249	Thus, the proposed amendments cannot and should not, in any way — prevail under these conditions — on the ground that, together with so many other equally thoughtless and unsustainable measures, they harm, affect and contribute to compromising the survival of the public education system itself. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u250	They like people to go hand-in-hand!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u251	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor for the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u252	Mr President, Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt, I would like to begin by saying that it is due to the progressive nature of taxes that tax justice should be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u254	It's not because there are people who pay or stop paying for the manuals that she does. The question is another, the question is that the same chair, the same secretary, the same picture, whether it is interactive or of use with chalk, pen and eraser, serve precisely the students who come from families that have more and less. So that's not the point. The issue is the progressiveity of taxes and fiscal justice, which must exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u255	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u256	This question that is now on the table is, in fact, very relevant to many and many families and it is not surprising that the PSD has already come to talk differently about freeness, because it is realizing exactly the impact that this has on the family pocket. It is enormous, I repeat, it is enormous, and it has, in fact, to be valued. Mrs Odete João, in effect, the proposal of the CFP is to respect and transpose what has been approved in the State budget, so we are absolutely available for the work in the field of expertise, in order to find a wording that responds unequivocally to the objectives set out in the preamble and which is also in accordance with what has been mentioned here. Mrs. Ilda Araújo Novo, speaks of the exclusion of other educational resources and it is appropriate to say that perhaps the CDS has been distracted by the one that has been the intervention of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u257	There you go!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u258	We have made many proposals precisely to eliminate the costs of frequency, we can imagine, not only in compulsory education but in all levels of teaching. And we have made proposals not only to eliminate the costs of frequency but also, at the same time, to increase and strengthen social action at school. We are in fact in another field completely opposed to that of the CDS-PP, because we will continue to fight and bring to education, for the education of students, less costs for families. This bet on the freeness of school textbooks is absolutely essential to combat school failure, to alleviate the burdens of families and to guarantee the constitutional right to education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u259	Mrs. Members, the general assessment of the Drafts of Law Nos 1216 / XIII / 4 ends. a and 1218 / XIII / 4. a. We enter the last point this afternoon, which is the discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 1214 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the end to be attributed to the tips of cigarettes. You have the floor for the presentation of this legislative initiative, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Apparently harmless, cigarette tips are of the most toxic and dangerous waste to the environment. Among many components, such as tar, arsenic or benzene, cigarette filters contain cellulose acetate, i.e. plastic, which helps explain that each cigarette tip remains about 10 years to break down. Inadequately discarding a cigarette beat to the public way or to the environment leads all chemicals it contains to contaminate soils, water lines and living organisms, and can enter the food chain, representing a potential risk to public health. Easily dragged, they invariably end up in watercourses, already being the most found residue in coastal areas, where they are often eaten by birds and marine animals, which confuse them with food. It is estimated that, in Portugal, about 7,000 beats are thrown to the ground every minute. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a bottle full of cigarette tips.]] To get an idea of the size of the pollution, what is in this bottle is the amount of cigarette tips caught in three quarters of an hour, by three people, just 100 m of walk, on Admiral Reis Avenue, in Lisbon. They're here between 1000 and 1500 beats!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u261	The PAN bringing plastic to the rostrum? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u262	We cannot continue to ignore the environmental costs associated with inadequate disposal and the absence of rules and procedures for collecting such waste. It is therefore urgent, in the context of environmental public policies, to adopt concrete, firm and effective measures, such as those proposed by the NAP in the draft law that we are discussing today: the implementation, at first, of awareness-raising actions on these conducts, aimed at both the consumer and the sectors of activity most directly related to inadequate discard of cigarette tips; the establishment of certain obligations and practices, such as the provision of ash at the door of services and establishments most covered by cigarette consumption, notably restoration, boarding platforms or bus stops; the payment, by the producer, of a ecotax intended to cost waste management actions as well as awareness, training and recovery of ecosystems; the sanctioning of the act of discarding cigarette tips inadequately; and the adoption of a transitional period after the entry into force of the law. No measure is large enough to solve the problem that we have in our hands and none is too small to justify it being set aside as regards the defence of terrestrial and marine ecosystems. There are several fronts and we're all few to get it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u263	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : According to the report of an international environmentalist association, WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature), each person may be ingesting about 2000 microparticles of plastic per week, with devastating effects on health and the environment. If we don't want plastic in our bodies, we have to stop the millions of tons that are deposited in nature all year round. We have to start there, because, in fact, cigarette tips are an environmental problem and a public health problem. Its degradation is extremely difficult and slow. Therefore, we follow the concerns that the NAP has just mentioned in the presentation of its bill. However, we have some opinions about the content of this project. We think it is necessary to raise the awareness of the consumer, but we consider the focus on individual behavior to be excessive. Almost half of the project is about consumer awareness. The NAP also considers that it should affect the consumer an important set of counter-coordinations. However, from our point of view, the main issue must be the consumer and, in this perspective, the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on reducing the impact of plastic products on the environment explicitly refers to the need for measures for the creation of extended producer liability schemes for all plastic products. That is why we have to start, and that is where the state must legislate and that is where the whole of society should, in fact, address its concerns. This means that, for example, biodegradable alternatives are needed. It is necessary for producers to investigate and invest in the production of biodegradable alternatives, and it is also necessary for the State and producers to invest in measures for the circular economy, to reuse waste sustainably, and there are already proposals to do so. In this respect too, we believe that the responsibility of producers should be extended. What we now realize about the draft law of the NAP is that, in this measure, there is little clarity, it is not concrete and, in some cases, it is even ambiguous. Therefore, we believe that this debate is important, the Bloc is in line with these concerns, but it will also present concrete proposals in specialized debate to improve and focus mainly on producers and not consumers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u265	The next intervention is the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The protection of the environment is a transversal desire to the generality of citizens and it is certainly also a common theme and desire for all political parties. in this regard, the PSD has evidence given. The world is increasingly being threatened by the accumulation of plastics and garbage in the oceans, garbage, those that enter the food chain and cause serious harm and serious health problems to mankind. in this category, we find the well-known beats of cigarettes, cigarettes and cigars, which, according to data from the European Union, are the second single-use plastic product most found on their beaches. in this sense, the subject under discussion today deserves our full attention and reveals great relevance, because, according to non-governmental organizations that devote themselves to this theme—and this has already been mentioned— every minute, 7000 cigarette tips are thrown to the ground in Portugal. I reaffirm this because, indeed, this is a number that has to shock us all. The environment has no borders, especially physical borders, and a blessed thrown to the ground in Lisbon can cause the death of numerous fish anywhere in the globe. This is therefore a relevant initiative and on which the Assembly of the Republic will be worth working, without losing sight of Directive 2018/0172 of the European Parliament and of the Council, on plastics for single use and post-consumption waste of tobacco products containing filters containing plastic, directive, which, as you know, awaits publication and also ancillary regulation. On the other hand, at the local level, there are a set of regulations, projects and ongoing initiatives, many of them in partnership with various entities, which should be considered, insofar as they can contribute to enriching the bill concerned. In other words, the PSD shares the importance of the subject matter and the relevance of its treatment, but does not provide a broad debate on this subject. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u267	However, by subscribing to the liability of the polluter, which must, however, be clarified, we understand that this is a commitment that should involve the whole society, because it implies the continuity of the change of mentality already started in Portugal with Law No. 37 / 2007 of 14 August, which adopted rules for the protection of citizens from involuntary exposure to tobacco smoke. For the PSD, prevention is the key word in the field of environmental protection, which we always pursue and we will continue to continue. We cannot therefore agree that such exhaustive supervision—and that is what I wanted to mention—is a solution to this problem by so many different entities. That is why this is an initiative that deserves our attention, but does not exempt our regulations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u268	The next intervention is the Green Parliamentary Group. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that cigarette tips are a waste that is often released in the free environment, has an environmental impact and therefore needs to have a destination. There is no doubt, as has already been mentioned here, that there are a number of authorities who, being aware of this issue, have already taken some measures that should not be neglected and should be taken into account. With regard to the project presented here, I believe that there are basically three aspects that must be highlighted. The first is the question of raising citizens' awareness: information campaigns, citizens' training campaigns regarding the impact these cigarette tips may have. A second aspect is the recurrent provision, so let us say, of containers, vulgar ash, where citizens can deposit these cigarette tips. It is true that, particularly in many public places, these containers do not exist and therefore smoking citizens end up putting cigarette tips on the floor. On the other hand, a third aspect of this project is related to the question of punishment, of the fines attributed to those who throw a cigarette tip to the floor. Regarding this issue of punishment and fines, there is no doubt that in this House the NAP competes with the CDS in this matter: there is no project that does not have a fine for the citizen, a punishment for a certain behaviour. But the NAP, in the preamble to this bill, gives an answer, so let us say in two phases: in the first phase, there would be the awareness and availability of containers, things with which the Greens absolutely agree; in the second phase, there would be the question of punishment and fines for the citizens. It happens that in the articulate, the NAP does not make this differentiation and what happens is that it puts everything in a first stage, which leads us to believe that the issue of punishment and fines is, in fact, a priority for the NAP. We are obviously not going to make this project impossible in voting generally, but we would like to stress that the issue of public awareness and the provision of containers must be taken as a priority. We do not need to fine people so that they have the right behavior, in fact, I think we already have examples in Portugal on this issue. For example, as far as ecopoints are concerned, the sorting of waste at home to then differentiate people in their deposition, we do not need to fine citizens so they have a regular and correct behaviour.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u271	What is fundamental? It is to sensitize citizens so that this screening is done, so that the wastes have a correct referral and, on the other hand, provide containers and containers close to the citizens, so that such deposition can be made. So we don't need to walk in a police state, always punishing, always with brute fines.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u272	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u273	In fact, we have to move on to a more environmentally friendly view of the matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u274	Mrs. Deputy, would you like to finish, if you please?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u275	I'm done, Mr. President. And this more ecological vision actually passes through awareness, education and solutions. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u276	Mr Renato Sampaio of the Socialist Party now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP presents us with a legislative initiative which is undoubtedly of the greatest importance for the treatment of a waste which has a considerable danger. However, this initiative focuses on the treatment of the matter more on the installation of collection equipment by commercial establishments, companies and public buildings, forcing them even to clear the surrounding area. In addition, this initiative also focuses on the application of fines to the final consumer, which, in our view, are high, virtually withdrawing responsibility for this waste from the producer. With regard to the producer, what do you do? It is limited to transfer to licensed companies the collection and treatment. There is therefore a very great confusion! For the citizens, the campaign to be carried out is essentially raising awareness of this — I have no doubt! — but, although it is of the utmost importance to raise citizens' awareness of this matter, the initiative brings virtually nothing more than a fine. This initiative is, in our view, very generic, without a relevant regulatory deepening, and only fines really have this deepening, exactly for commercial establishments, for businesses, for public buildings. It overlooks a very important issue, from our point of view, which is that of the local authorities. Local authorities are the response and those responsible for the collection and treatment of waste and, essentially, for urban cleaning, even authorities which already have their own regulations on this matter, to avoid this and other types of waste, including the Lisbon Chamber and the Leiria Chamber. In addition, it completely or practically omitted the existence of a European Community Directive on single-use plastics which has already been adopted by the European Council on 21, and which includes exactly the products of tobacco with a filter. This directive will be transposed into Portuguese law and, from the point of view of its design, it is much broader and fundamentally more consistent to make the treatment of this type of waste effective. That is why we understand that this initiative is a waste of time and does not take account of the Community directive — in fact, it must have been only the title that drew the attention of the NAP to this matter — but, in any case, the Socialist Party will not impermiss it and hopes to find mechanisms for its improvement in committee. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u278	Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u279	Mr President, the CDS recognises to the initiative the merit of bringing the debate a topic with a non-desirable impact on the environment. We recognize the importance of raising citizens' awareness of civic behaviour as simple and obvious as that of not throwing beats on the ground and we also recognize that, in order to do so, more equipment is needed for the collection and deposition of these beats. Moreover, this issue, which has been debated in the European Union, culminated in Mr Renato Sampaio's statement. This directive has been published precisely today and it has two years to be transposed, covering much more than we are discussing today, which is the subject of the beats. In addition, we should not overlook the fact that there are a number of authorities which already have municipal regulations on this and other matters. In view of this, and in view of the relevance and merit that we recognize to it, despite this initiative proposing, in its title, to regulate the fate to give to the tips of cigarettes, I confess that, in the right totalitarian way, the only things in which it is clear are prohibition, obligation and sanction. This project proposes to prohibit them from lying blessed to the ground and applying fines between €200 and €4000 to whoever does so. When Mr. André Silva spoke recently, he brought in a plastic bottle—which, I assume, will then stop at the ecopoint—...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u280	I should pay a fine by now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u281	...the blessed ones that were collected on Admiral Reis Avenue. Now, if a driver is in excess of speed on Admiral Reis Avenue, he pays 120 € fine, but if he lies a happy one through the window, he will pay at least 200 € fine. They seem clearly disproportionate, these fines!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u282	The curious is the plastic bottle! You should pay a fine of 500 uritans!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u283	It then obligates the existence of ash and collection equipment, which makes all the sense, as I said, and seems obvious to us, and proposes, if they do not exist, fines ranging from EUR 1 to EUR 5 million. These are the fine proposals, because the initiative refers to environmental counter-ordination and considers it to be a very serious counter-ordination. This proposal, within the scope of the producer's extended responsibility, also provides that it is up to the producer to ensure waste management, but does not explain how, does not indicate a solution and does not present a proposal. Having said that, in the CDS, we believe that the solution is not about prohibiting and punishing, but necessarily about innovation, research, citizens' awareness, the search for new solutions, new uses that contribute to the circular economy. And there are already many good examples of the collection of beatas for use and transformation: the Portugal project without Beatas, which distributes beatas which are a kind of test pipes; the ashes on the beaches; the Beatão Mission, which exists, for example, in my municipality; or, even, the E-tijolo, a very recently disseminated program, from the Institute of Soldiers and Quality and the Landscape Laboratory, which won an idea contest in April this year and which precisely foresees the incorporation of a percentage of beatas in the construction of bricks, making them lighter and resistant to isolation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u284	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u285	Finally, Mr President, I must say that this whole matter is indeed very important, but in the opinion of the CDS, it must not be followed by prohibition and punishment before a previous phase of awareness-raising and thinking of innovative technological alternatives to solve a problem that is of all of us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u286	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Angela Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fate of cigarette tips must be something other than to pollute the environment, but the draft law of the NAP, which we discuss today, follows, once again, the orientation to which the NAP used us, to prohibit, punish or fine, and that we have difficulty in following up. We are faced with another initiative focusing on prohibitions, penalties, fines, more fines and more counter-ordinations: paying for pollution, instead of avoiding pollution; monitoring and punishing the citizen; redoubleing the obligations to control, monitor and fine, instead of investing in preventing pollution. Penalizing, prohibiting, fineing do not solve environmental problems; they may increase the revenue of fines, but do not end the problem. If there are habits that have to be changed—and they are evident—then that intervenes in changing behaviors, in order to prevent cigarette tips from going to the floor, instead of raising money in fines, while the beats continue to have the same destiny; give priority to educational and formative action, instead of prohibitive and punitive action; invest less in citizens' taxes and more in the placement of ashes in public space and in cleaning,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u288	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u289	... especially in places where the problem is signalled with greater concern. The imbalance between these two dimensions of response to this problem is very evident in this bill and reflects the NAP's desire to create a general state of surveillance over citizens today, the pretext of environmental problems, tomorrow, you know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u291	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u292	The protection of the environment and the creation of conditions for a life in harmony with the environment must be political objectives promoted and defended, so that they are assumed by each individual and collective objectives, but can hardly be imposed with the NAP's logic to prohibit, arrest or fine. As has happened in other matters, in which the right option was made, rejecting the pursuit and punitive logic, the CFP is also available in this issue to contribute to solutions that we recognize are necessary. We will maintain our coherent position, not turning off the environmental problems of its social framework and seeking its effective resolution, even if that path is more difficult to do than embark on the logic of banning, arresting and fineing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u293	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor now, too, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u294	Mr President, with regard to matters...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u295	Sir, excuse me, will you excuse me? You do not have time to speak. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u296	Mr. President, you're absolutely right. I've given up time...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u297	The honourable Member has had an impulse of generosity towards the NAP and that impulse of generosity now...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u298	And the table was careful! I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u299	You can't smoke the same cigarette twice!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u300	On behalf of the Bureau, I also apologize to the House for my lateness in this matter. To close this item on the agenda, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seemed to me to be consensual in your speeches the need and urgency to remove the cigarette tips from the environment and to find some solution. I can also conclude that, since this is the only proposal that has been and is under discussion and has no other proposals, the parliamentary groups, I believe, will be available to enable this initiative, which is not perfect and needs corrections, as has already been mentioned, to improve it and to make it a consensual law. I thank Mr Soares and generally agree with the constructive criticisms that have been made. The focus is not on individual behavior, particularly on counter-ordinations, as has been said — it is not true! — what is at the table is to extend the responsibility of the producer, to carry out awareness-raising and information campaigns and, ultimately, there is a penalty regime for those who prevariate. He says that it is necessary to find biodegradable alternatives, but they do not exist and, as long as there are not, in fact, massive ones, we have to do something, we have to take this first step. Mrs Berta Cabral, regarding the exhaustive list of supervisory entities, we have often discussed, in debates of legislative initiatives, the lack of control capacity by a given entity. The legislative technique was to extend the list of supervisory entities in order to somehow supply some lack of State resources. But, of course, we must also discuss this issue in the speciality. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, as regards the police state, I disagree with what I have said. Is that not what I have already said is here on the table, and the question I am asking is the following: since when is pollution an individual freedom? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] My freedom ends when the one begins and it seems to me that the interpretation it makes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u302	Mr. Deputies, you really want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u303	... of our initiative is, in fact, excessive. I would also like to tell you that you should read Article 11. which contains a transitional provision of one year, which does not, in fact, remove counter-ordinations for one year.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u305	Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that we are available to work on this legislative initiative, improve it and leave a law far better than that which we have presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-12.u306	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda is over today. The next plenary session will be held on Friday, June 14, at 10 a.m. and will have as a working order a marking of the Left Block for the general discussion of the Bill No 1221 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Allows the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health benefits where the source of reference for these is the National Health Service ( the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ). All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon and those who are celebrating the People's Saints a good party. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 36 minutes.]]
