ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 11 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. As you already know of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, and now they must be running the procedure, a new system of electronic presence registration is being opened. As they have been informed, if there is any technical difficulty in their procedure, the support services are entirely available to each of us. Before we move on to the item on the agenda itself, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the initiatives that have been put in the Bureau, for the House's knowledge. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr President, the Proposal for a Law No 187 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves contingency measures to be applied in the event of an exit from the United Kingdom of the European Union without agreement, which falls to 4. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bills Nos 1130 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Determines the extension of the specific regime of access to reform to all slaughterhouse workers in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, 1131 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — National strategy for combating and eradicating poverty and social exclusion, 1132 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Status of informal caregiver, 1135 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Creates the status of informal caregivers, reinforcing the measures to support caregivers and people in a dependency situation, 1136 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Resets the retirement age of 65 years and consecrates the customized reduction of the retirement age for workers with 40 years of discounts or more ( tenth first amendment to Decree-Law No 187/2007 of 10 May ), 1137 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates an extraordinary complement to compensate pensioners with long careers contributing to the cuts resulting from the application of the sustainability factor between 2014 and 2019 and 1138 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Elimination of the sustainability factor of pensions required under special schemes for access to disability and old age pensions, of the early retirement scheme, in particular in situations of long-term involuntary unemployment and replacement of the statutory retirement age in 65 years, which fall to 10. the Commission, and 1139 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Visa the ban on the sale of herbicides with glyphosate for non-professional uses and 1140 / XIII / 4. a ( NAP) — Determines the obligation to carry out a monthly analysis of water intended for human consumption in order to verify the presence of glyphosate, which falls to 7. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u3	in the first item of the agenda, the appeal to the Government No 24 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — On general policy, focused on health policy and on the measures necessary to value the SNS and ensure the right of populations to the provision of affordable and quality health care. I'm asking the ladies. Members who cooperate with the Bureau and with speakers in order to provide less noise in the Chamber, please. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who remain standing, I ask you to sit down. [[Pause.]] Therefore, the conditions for giving the floor to Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP are met for intervention at the opening of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The CFP has promoted the scheduling of this inquiry to the Government on health policy because the lives of users, professionals and the future of the SNS (National Health Service ) require concrete measures to defend the SNS and improve its quality. The National Health Service is the only guarantee of the fulfilment of the right to health and the provision of high quality health care to all users, regardless of their economic condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u6	Despite the violent offensive that it has been targeted by the protagonists of right-wing policy and advocates of health business ideology, this is reality and it is not possible to hide it, as much as the private economic groups and the PSD and the CDS strive to denigrate the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u8	The offensive against the National Health Service aims to undermine the fundamental pillars of the public service, such as the quality and safety of care provided, which are their guarantee of credibility. Attacking these pillars, the economic groups and their political representatives intend to deepen the privatization of health with the financial support of the State and the promiscuity between the public sector and the private sector. It is in this picture that the blackmail operation launched by some of the main private groups in the area of health against ADSE is inserted. Operation mounted following the requirement made by ADSE for private groups to return the EUR 38 million they received wrongly. In view of this requirement, the response of the two major groups was to break contracts with ADSE and refuse to provide health care, in a blackmail operation on the state in which the patients are second in relation to the objective of these economic groups to maintain the millions they received wrongly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u9	Oh, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u10	This blackmail operation makes it clear that it is not the right to health that moves private groups, but to transform the disease into profit! Just as it is clear, for whom you doubted, what the so-called "freedom of choice" means. That is, with freedom of choice, in practice, the health of Portuguese would be in the background and in the hands of those who do business with it. Therefore, the answer that it is necessary for the government to respond to such powerful and intense offensive is not to give in to blackmail and strengthen the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]] The SNS is faced with problems that, being the responsibility of successive right-wing governments, in particular the PSD/CDS, have not been overcome by the lack of commitment of the PS and, above all, because important measures proposed by the PCP and approved in the Assembly of the Republic, such as those envisaged in the Emergency Health Programme. The National Health Service needs a certain and effective bet on public investment that responds to its needs, including the modernization of its infrastructure and equipment, and that supports and reverses its degradation. The degradation of the facilities of the hospitals of the SNS is resolved by the implementation of the measures envisaged in the State budget, such as those that provide for the construction of hospitals in Évora, Seixal, Lisboa, Barcelos and Algarve,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u11	Algarve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u12	... as well as with investments in the repair and expansion of hospitals and primary health care. The obsolescence of equipment is resolved by increasing public investment, affecting funds that are available in the State budget and money from European funds. The fight against waiting lists is done through the hiring of health professionals, with the opening of vacancies in the competitions for hospitals that need these professionals. If geographical areas persist in which vacancies are to be filled, then the government must do as the CFP has proposed: create incentives, cash and not only, which enable the establishment of professionals in these areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u14	The waiting lists for consultations and surgeries are an obstacle to health care, such as moderate rates and non-emergency transport criteria. These obstacles only persist because, once again, PSD and CDS gave the PS and the government the support needed to bring the proposals presented by the CFP to remove such obstacles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u16	There are many patients, especially chronic and elderly patients, who cannot buy all the medication they need. This situation is also unacceptable! Therefore, measures should be taken to make medicines available, free of charge, to chronic patients over 65 years of age, as the CFP proposes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Health professionals are indispensable to the SNS, which, in fact, would not exist without them! The advances that have been achieved in this legislation are important, advances such as the hiring of more workers, the replacement of wages, the replacement of 35 hours a week, the payment of quality hours and the fight against precariousness. Measures only possible thanks to the struggle of workers and the correlation of existing forces in the Assembly of the Republic. Measures, however, criticized and rejected by PSD and CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u18	However, problems persist in defrosting progressions, continues to create the career of medical action auxiliaries, as there is no effective appreciation and dignity of the meanwhile created careers, especially those of the superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. throughout these years, the various health professionals have struggled and claimed by hiring more professionals, by valuing careers and their wage grids, as well as by just thawing career progressions. The demands of health professionals are fair, converging with the proposals of the CFP and we welcome greater solidarity. The fairness of these claims and the struggle to achieve them in nothing is confused with other controversial and dangerous processes, such as that of the strike to the surgeries, which aim at objectives other than the interests of all nurses and contribute to attack the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u20	What is required is the Government's response with the adoption of measures that assume the rights of professionals as an integral part of the quality of the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u22	No more protections are allowed in resolving problems with the defrosting of progressions. No more protections are allowed in the valuing and dignity of careers, nor in the creation of the career of medical action auxiliaries. Work and health workers must be valued! The fight against precariousness must be continued every day and the public bond should be attached to all workers in the SNS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The CFP recognises and values all the progress made in these years and we note that it has not gone further because of the responsibility and choice of the PS and its government that, in matters of great relevance, have preferred to converge with the PSD and CDS to reject the solutions proposed by the CFP to the problems of the SNS! But above all, the options of the PS and its government, of submission to EU ( European Union ) taxes, which prevented a full response to the problems of the people and the country, and limited investment in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u23	Ah! After all, it was the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u24	These are the external options and impositions that need to be overcome so that, in the context of an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy, you can respond to health professionals, users, and strengthen the SNS. It is necessary to break with the right-wing policy and the ideology of the disease business! It was decades of such practices that reduced workers, ended specific careers, replaced workers with links by precarious workers, transformed hospitals into businesses, transferred patients and financial resources to the large economic groups that operate in the health sector and put companies to manage hospital units according to the group, supporting the mission to ensure the health of all citizens. It was these years of these right-wing options that weakened the National Health Service and promoted the dissatisfaction of professionals. This is the policy that the PSD and the CDS want to pursue, that is the policy that needs to be said'sufficient'! It is necessary to ensure the strengthening of the SNS, an SNS managed by the State, based on its proximity to the citizens, ensuring that there is no obstacle to accessibility, with professionals in appropriate numbers, duly valued and motivated, with renewed and updated equipment and with facilities that guarantee the provision of quality and safety health care. This is the meaning of this request and this is the meaning of the proposals put forward by the CFP. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The way is to advance the defense and improvement of the quality of the SNS! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u25	You now have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the time when four decades are completed on the creation of the National Health Service and at a time when there are so many voices that they intend to make believe that the National Health Service is worse than it was at the beginning of the legislature, I want to focus on the answer to this question in a central theme of the Government Program and the proposed health-based legislation — people.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u28	Priority to people and health policies focused on people; people who make the SNS, their human resources, and people who justify the existence of the SNS, its users. Let's start with the people who do the SNS. In 2018, the SNS reached the largest number of workers in its history, 128 445. contrary to what happened between December 2011 and November 2015, in which the SNS lost 2850 workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u29	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u30	... between this date and 31 December 2018, the SNS won 8800 workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] of these, about 1850 are specialists, 4000 are nurses and 540 are superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. The SNS today has more effective in these three professional groups than it had in December 2010 before the start of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme. On the other hand, during the Legislature, those 128,445 workers no longer have reductions in wages and overtime and uncomfortable hours; they have no longer had a working period of 40 hours per week; they have no longer had their careers frozen. The government has fulfilled its programme and has restored rights and income. In addition, Mr President and Mr. Members, the Government has harmonised the normal working period of 35 hours between workers in a contract of work in public and in a contract of work, benefiting 31 000 effective; it has facilitated the placement of newly-specialist doctors; it has reviewed and improved the terms and conditions for the allocation of incentives to geographical mobility for areas lacking at the beginning of the legislature, covering 15 doctors and, today, it already covers more than 360 doctors. The government also created the special career of pre-hospital emergency technician; it enabled the pharmaceutical career in view of its technical complexity; it created the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician, who had waited almost 18 years for alignment with the new model of bietapic licensing, allowing 70 % of the approximately 8100 professionals integrated in the former career to start their base remuneration of €1201, like the other public administration graduates. The Government has also issued a favourable opinion to more than 3400 requests for regularization of precarious links in the Ministry of Health ; already this year, it has concluded the negotiation of nursing careers that, now, and for 30 days, are in public consultation; and decided to hire more 850 nurses and operational assistants for the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These choices cost 47 % of the additional revenue of EUR 1400 million with which we have decided to strengthen the SNS budget since the beginning of the Legislature. They are the investment we choose to give priority and some accuse us of not having done it. But we did it because we believe in the relevance of the professionals of the National Health Service. We know that the 128,445 workers who make the SNS and the unions that represent them would like us to go even further; we understand that this is their role and we respect it when they manifest themselves. But the government cannot exhaust all the investment capacity it has — and which results from the collective capacity to generate wealth — in these 128,445 workers and, above all, cannot do so in the time of a single legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u31	At the pace they're making, we need 10!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are 10 million Portuguese people who count on the SNS, who count on the social state—they are the people we work for, they are the people who ask us to be careful. It was in these people that we reduced by 25 %, or even eliminated, the value of moderate rates and rejected the right to transport non-emergency patients and that we promoted the increase in the share of generic medicines, with reduced user costs. It was thought of them that we set the goal of creating 100 new USF (family health units), that we will exceed 23 units; that we guarantee more 700,000 people coverage by family doctor; and that we will still be able to count on 400 new specialists to help us walk toward the assumed goal. It was also thought of them that we improved the response capacity of primary health care, with emphasis on oral health and visual health; that we extended, in more than 1000 beds, various types, the National Network of Continued Integrated Care and introduced the component of continued mental health care. It was thought of them that we developed home hospitalization, which already has 90 beds and that, until the end of the Legislature, it is estimated that it has a response in 25 hospitals. It was thought of them that we, together with the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, linked the proposed law on measures to support informal caregivers, including the identification of a health professional as a reference contact and the training of the informal caregiver. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was thought of them that we invested in the remodelling of 79 health units and 22 hospital emergency services; that we made other investments that exceeded the EUR 555 million; that we reprogrammed Portugal 2020 to allow more EUR 70 million to be allocated to health and that we continued our work with a view to the completion of the new hospitals of Eastern Lisbon, Central Alentejo, Sixcal, Sintra and Madeira. It was thinking of them that we worked and continue to work on promoting healthy lifestyles, confident that this is, in the long term, one of the best investments to reduce premature mortality and to increase healthy life expectancy to 65 years. Because we believe in health, in all policies and in the commitment of all social and economic agents, we are in a position to announce today, here, the conclusion, in the next month of March, of self-regulation protocols with industry to reduce salt, sugar and trans fats in certain types of foods. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was also thought of people who presented a proposal for a basic health law that clarifys what we want for the Portuguese health system: health gains, strengthening public services, preference for good public management and a structured work force in careers, with progressive mechanisms of exclusive dedication. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not ignore what is not right in the National Health Service. We know the work we have ahead of us—we have an ongoing struggle to improve compliance with the maximum response times guaranteed in the National Health Service, to improve efficiency and to improve management. This is certainly the best way to protect the weakest and not to be a hostage to anyone. Being not perfect, the National Health Service is a successful public service and, surely, it owes much to it of the international prestige attributed to the Portuguese health system, quite clearly in the recent allocation of 13. the place of the Euro Health Consumer Index 2018, of the Health Consumer Powerhouse. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This result is not from the Minister of Health, it is not from the Government, it is from the health professionals and the SNS. The recent evolution of the Portuguese health system reveals a bet on the combination of health gains with demand for efficiency. Our main challenge is to accelerate progress. I want to end with a message of optimism regarding the future, which stems from the recognition of the quality of the work done in the SNS, the evaluation carried out by the international scientific community of our results and the confidence that society in us will deposit and to which we will not lack. We're proud of the SNS. It is for him that we have worked in this legislature and it is for him that we will continue to work! It's not going back! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u33	We will move on to the stage of the debate, with an initial period for requests for clarification directed both to the Inter-Pelent Party and to the Government. First, there is a request for clarification addressed to the Interpelent Party. To that end, I give the floor to Mrs. PS Member Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the CFP, in good time, marked an inquiry into health matters. This allows the Government to clarify and clarify several subjects that have suffered misinformation and allows us, as Members of the Socialist Party, to reiterate our conviction that we are together in building a free, just and solidarity society. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a ranking that annually ranks 35 national health services based on indicators such as user rights and information, accessibility, results, coverage of services provided, was mentioned here by the Minister that Portugal improved its performance in 2018 and moved to 13. the place. It is not, in fact, a place that keeps us very happy, but it is a place that shows that we are working hard, that we are on the right track and that we will continue together to improve access to health services for all Portuguese people. Despite this good news, I wanted to say that Portugal obviously continues to have many constraints and many shortcomings, especially in access to primary health care. It is a fact that the reform of primary health care, initiated and consolidated by governments of the Socialist Party, with the creation of several USFs and with the annual increase in the number of new family physicians in training and in speciality, enabled the gradual reduction of users without a family doctor and also greater proximity to the provision of health care, that alternative or complementary measures already initiated means that the CFP is the most appropriate to this problem, in whose resolution, as I said and reiterate, we are together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u35	You have the floor to answer Mrs Carla Cruz from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, for many intense and deep campaigns against the National Health Service, in fact, the reality is unforgettable: the National Health Service is the only one that guarantees the right to health, is the only one that provides quality health care to everyone, regardless of their economic condition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u38	...is the only one that effectively allows to counter the ideology of the business. We said that the path that must be made is a way to move forward rather than to walk back. What needs to be done, Madam Member, is to implement the measures that the Government has in the State Budget and others that have been approved to enable this strengthening of the National Health Service, to improve the quality and the provision of health care in the SNS. And this is inseparable from the appreciation of all health professionals: doctors, nurses, medical action auxiliaries, superior health technicians, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we must also make the necessary investment at the level of facilities and equipment. This allows the quality and improvement of health care. Madam Member, the question that we leave to the PS is whether the PS and the Government of the Socialist Party will converge with the CFP in defending and valuing the National Health Service, in what is necessary to value all health workers either at the level of their employment or at the level of their careers. The PS will converge with the PSD and the CDS to the path of deepening, promiscuity between the public sector, the private sector and the social sector or will effectively strengthen the National Health Service, because this is what allows you to move forward, that is what allows you to respond to the offensive against the National Health Service, professionals and users. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u39	We now turn to requests for clarification addressed to the Minister of Health. 16 Members have signed up to make requests for clarification, so we will make two rounds and each will have requests for clarification by eight Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The first request for clarification is made by Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, the unacceptable pressure and blackmail of the economic health groups on ADSE confirms that their concern is profit rather than health care. It is clear that if, perhaps, SNS did not exist and the economic health groups had the responsibility of providing health care, users could be deprived of health care from one day to the next. This would be the first consequence of the so-called right of choice, in which the State would finance and pledge customers for private and private groups would have the knife and cheese in their hands, leaving the state and users totally hostage to their interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u42	It is also evident that the National Health Service is the only way to guarantee the right to health with a universal and general character, without discrimination from those who can or cannot pay. Mr Minister, there is no campaign of manipulation that conceals the abuses of the economic groups on ADSE and which are on the basis of the obligation of these groups to return EUR 38 million which have been illegally raised. It is not acceptable, for example, that the value of the same prosthesis may range from €2282 to €31,141! This is a difference of 29 000 €! It is important for ADSE to diversify the conventions so as not to be hostage to this or that economic group and avoid the concentration in half a dozen providers. But there are immediate steps the government must take. If the economic groups have decided to blackmail ADSE, beneficiaries and the State because they want to continue to accumulate million profits at the expense of ADSE and the money of workers, the response must be to refuse this blackmail by strengthening the SNS and, if necessary, by requiring the means of these economic groups to maintain the provision of health care that they are now refusing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u44	So, Minister, the question is what will be the choice that the government will take. Will it give in to the blackmails and pressures of the economic groups, who refuse to provide health care to users, who threaten to break the conventions in force with ADSE, or will it face this blackmail, reinforcing the provision of health care in the SNS? Will you or will you not make the investment that is necessary in the SNS to defeat the ideology of the business of these groups, which only worry about making profits? Will or will not the Government use the means at its disposal, including the request of the means of these economic groups, to ensure that no ADSE beneficiary ceases to have the health care he needs? Large private health groups are not concerned about the right to health of Portuguese and are at the root of the problems in the area of health. The Government's obligation is to defend the constitutional right to health and the way forward is to strengthen the SNS and protect the constitutional right to health. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u45	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, the CFP presented itself today as the defender of the SNS 100 % of the State, expelled from private providers, because for the CFP, as for the Block, privates make the disease business health. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u47	You see how you know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u48	Well, with the current crisis in ADSE, Mr. Members here have an opportunity, shocked, to end the immorality that Mrs Paula Santos still described.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u49	It's the art of morality!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u50	In view of this opportunity, what are you doing? They have the frontier to tell public officials that their freedom of choice, the one for which they voluntarily pay, must end,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u51	Is freedom of choice to be carefree? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u52	...because PCP and Block know what's best for them? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] They assume that ADSE, the advantage of which is precisely to give public officials access to a private hospital, has to end up with users addressing themselves as good and obedient citizens to the SNS? Don't! Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u53	Don't come with stories like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u54	Don't you like demagogy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u55	None of this, because it's election year and the PCP chooses to stay on top of the wall.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u56	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u57	Don't come up with that conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u58	So, what does the PCP do? It will seek a law of the Prec ( Revolutionary Process in Course), of application only, and I quote « in exceptional cases», to justify that the SNS is so bad, it is today in such a serious situation that the best thing is to require the service of private hospitals to meet the failure of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u59	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u60	Is this what the CFP understands as an SNS enhancement measure : to use privates to save the SNS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u61	Ah, do you still defend the blackmailer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u62	It is that you are so confused that your patriotic and left-wing policy even seems like a right-wing policy. [[PCP protests.]] And Mrs. Minister, who views ADSE as an asset to the system, assesses this requirement? Or, as the Secretary of State has said, do you think that if ADSE is used to defend the interests of the beneficiaries — I suppose instead of the interest of the government — should it be privatized? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u63	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Parliament is currently discussing a law that is structural and structural for society, which is the new basic health law. There is indeed a large, fair, expectation of the population, which wants, like the Left Block, a SNS that is stronger, with more response and with higher quality response. The new basic health law should be a fundamental law that, we know, stirs with many businesses installed in health — many and powerful! For this reason, you will also have an answer from these installed businesses, who profit greatly from a National Health Service that is weak. The blackmail of private people about ADSE is an example of this. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] The blackmail of private people about ADSE and its beneficiaries is this: a blackmail about ADSE and the beneficiaries, because private people think they have the right to collect what they want, when they want, as they want,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u65	Then get it over with!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u66	... without any kind of supervision, without any kind of rigour, without any kind of transparency. But it is more than that: blackmail of the private and the cartelization of the main private groups in relation to ADSE is also an attempt to condition a new law of health bases and its discussion, which seeks to clarify what is the public sector and what is the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u68	We have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u69	You don't even know what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u70	Paradoxically, what private people are doing with ADSE only gives reason to those who, like the Left Block, say that health cannot stay in the hands of private people. Let's imagine what would be a National Health Service that was entirely in the hands of the private or that it was even mostly in the hands of the private, as the PSD and the CDS-PP want. What they are currently doing with ADSE, using and manipulating beneficiaries for maximum profit, would do with the National Health Service, using and manipulating users for the maximum profit of their private business. Therefore, paradoxically, this blackmail only gives reason to the Left Block and to anyone who wants a National Health Service of fully public management and where private individuals are complementary to the provision of public health care. It is therefore necessary, Madam Minister, not to give in to blackmail, nor to pressure from anyone who wants to use the money of the beneficiaries, from those who want to use the money of the users without any rule, from those who want to maintain public-private partnerships, from those who want to keep a National Health Service weak so that it is obliged to use the private. But you need more than that. We must not give in to blackmail, we must be sure of what we want for the National Health Service and we must also strengthen the National Health Service from now on. It is necessary to strengthen your installed capacity and strengthen your responsiveness, because if we want a basic law, as is the case with the Left Block, say so—and well! — that the private and social sector is complementary and the public to it, the SNS, the public only resorts when and as long as it needs, then we have to have an SNS with more responsive capacity to definitely make that separation of water between the public and the private. So the question that I put is the following: what is being done to take advantage of the installed capacity in, for example, the complementary means of diagnosis and therapy? It is that much is not being duly and fully taken advantage of in public hospitals, we have no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u71	And whose responsibility is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u72	What is being done to strengthen, too, the installed capacity for complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means to reduce the use of conventionals? What is being done to make operating blocks profitable in the National Health Service to reduce private use?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u73	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u74	I'm done now, Mr. President. What is being done to gain response in areas that are almost completely discovered by the National Health Service, such as mental health or oral health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u75	Does that have a cabbage in your budget or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u76	... so that the SNS does not need to appeal as a rule to the private? Even to finish, I ask what is being done to hire and value professionals, namely: the creation of a new career for health assistant technicians; the counting of all the time of service for senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians in the transition to their career review; and the counting of all the time of service for nursing professionals, who cannot have a « blackout» in relation to the 5, 10, 15, 20 years who worked for the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u77	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, Minister, Social Democratic Party believes in the National Health Service, believes in a National Public and Universal Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u80	... and believes that the National Health Service is a formidable tool for promoting freedom and democracy in Portugal. That is why it hurts us that some political parties embark on these repeated fantasies to say that the PSD does not think what it thinks, because what I think is what I say: we believe in a National Public Health Service, free of charge, tendonly, and universal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u81	They voted against their creation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u82	But, Minister, we realize that the National Health Service is moving back. And I give you some examples. I don't know if you can already explain to the country because it has gone behind the excellent level of low infant mortality that we had in Portugal. The year 2018 was a species of a « smurf in the stomach », in which we saw that more than sixty children died, compared to 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u84	We have a remarkable record of child mortality and we do not abdicate from being the best countries in the world, we do not abdicate that to walk back. Please explain to the country what happened in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u86	By the way, she also explains, Mrs. Minister, because in 2018, in July and October, the number of surgeries was smaller than in 2017. We're going back, Mrs. Minister! By the way, explain also why in 2018 there were more than 250 000 hospital emergencies than in 2017. The Minister, who knows of these matters, knows that this is going back because if there are more hospital emergencies, it means that the previous services — primary health care, external consultations, etc. — failed, and this is going back. And it is also to walk back when we see that the debts of the National Health Service, from December 2018 to January 2019, are already shooting again, about 50 million euros. So this isn't stopping? Oh, my God! Isn't this to be reversed, Minister? Oh, my God! On investment, you did not refer to it, but it is crucial in health, because the investment allows better conditions to treat patients and better and more modern equipment for surgery and treatment. But the truth is, in 2018, the investment was less than half as planned and far as it was in 2015. This is walking back, this is not having people in the center, Minister. And I tell you it's not because I look at the country and we get echoes that in Portalegre doctors are desperate, as happens in Leiria, with the troubled conditions of Leiria hospital. Or, then, let me talk about my land, Bragança : I tell you about the conditions of hospitalization in the hospital of Bragança, which is truly in need of works — your Secretary of State knows about this and the works are stopped for 300 000 €; I still tell you about the surgical block of Bragança, which is never built again, or rebuilt, or enlarged, because money is lacking, money that has been promised. Looking at the country, once again, in general, I see that doctors are missing, health professionals are missing in Portalegre, Leiria and also in Bragança. When do they find a solution for medical terms within the country and for equal opportunities between all citizens? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u87	To make requests for clarification, Mrs Joana Lima has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u88	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, PSD Member Adam Silva talks a lot about investment, and one thing I would like to bring here is about investment in the Port region, in the new pediatric wing of the Hospital of São João. And I am speaking again on this subject because I know that this Government in general and this Minister in particular are very committed to solving this problem, which was back there in time, which has not been resolved before. We are absolutely sure that this government will solve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] But it's never too much to talk about, it's never too much to collaborate, it's never too much to help this government solve a problem that was back there in time. So look back, no; we'll walk forward. Mrs. Minister, I know you're committed and we want to help, we want to collaborate. This is cross-sectional, I suppose, to all benches, but for that it is important that we all be united in this project. Above all, I would like to ask you three or four questions on this subject. Mr Minister, the designers have undertaken to deliver the final project by the end of this semester. Will the project be ready at the end of this semester? Do you have the conditions to answer, in this House, whether the project will be ready in this semester? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I know you are. Ladies and gentlemen do not like it, but it is this government that will solve the matter that you have not solved! It is this Minister who will resolve what your government has not decided. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Minister, we know that an amount of EUR 25 million has been made available to make the necessary investment in the pediatrics at the Hospital de São João, Porto. Is this money still available for the work, Minister? Are you in a position to answer? But the key question I wanted to leave to you is about land. Do we have the land, Minister? Do we own the land? They previously granted land to a private institution. Did we get the possession of these land, Minister? I would like you to explain this to us so that we can all be more clear, especially on the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u89	Also for a request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u90	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to greet the Portuguese Communist Party for having scheduled this inquiry on health, a topic that is always current and timely, especially when we watch maneuvers, blackmails, pressures that are being made by private people with health interests about ADSE. Starting right here, I would like to say to you, Mrs Minister, that we believe these threats are truly unacceptable, unacceptable, and that it is necessary, with all firmness, not to give in. But, on the other hand, these threats also confirm the imperative need to definitely put an end to the promiscuity installed between the public sector and the private sector in health, just so that we do not remain dependent on the private in such sensitive and sensitive areas as that of health. It is not surprising, moreover, that it is curious to realize that these maneuvers occur exactly at the time when we discuss the Health Bases Act, where it is placed on the table precisely the need to proceed to clear separation between the public sector and the private sector in the area of health. This separation must even be achieved, Mrs. Minister, not only because health is a right and not a business, but also because we need to free ourselves from this dangerous dependence on the private sector. Therefore, on this subject, what the Minister was interested in telling us is how the Government looks at this purpose, to clearly separate the public sector from the private sector in the field of health, through the future health-based law, also to prevent these maneuvers from repeating themselves again in the future. Mrs. Minister, I am speaking now of the public-private partnership of the Hospital de Braga. This partnership ends at the end of August this year and we know that the Government has already notified the Mello Health Group to extend it or renew it for another two years and we also know that the Mello Group will have required more EUR 20 million to cover some treatments. We believe that this would be a good opportunity, a good time to definitely bring this hospital unit into the public sphere. Would you like the Minister to tell us what the government wants to do about the future of this health unit: go back to the public sphere permanently, or stay in the public sphere until a private person with interest in its management appears? Finally, according to the health regulator, there are hospitals that are creating obstacles, constraints on access to voluntary interruption of pregnancy by users. In this case there will be three hospitals of the National Health Service : the hospital of Cascais, the hospital of Santa Maria do Centro Hospitalar de Lisboa Norte and the hospital of São Francisco Xavier, of the Hospitalar Centro Lisboa Occidental. in the cases of hospitals of Santa Maria and Cascais, according to the regulatory entity itself, users go to these hospitals, but they end up being referred to health centers, which we find absolutely unacceptable, because they are between the health center and the hospital. As for the case of the Hospital of São Francisco Xavier, one user ended up not being able to stop the pregnancy within the time limit legally established by a communication error between the various services. In view of this error or failure to communicate between services, the user was obliged to return to the health centre to overcome a purely administrative issue and on which the user had no responsibility. Mrs. Minister, when a hospital does not sign consultations for voluntary termination of pregnancy just because the user's postal code is missing is because something is wrong. This cannot happen, because it is creating problems where there are not and, above all, talking about consultations on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, a process which is limited in time by legal imposition, as we know, gains, of course, other dimensions, as was the case. I would like the Minister to speak on these obstacles, these constraints which are apparently being created in access to voluntary termination consultations of pregnancy. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u91	For a request for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u92	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, a National Quality Health Service requires professionals in appropriate numbers, motivated and valued. It is clear that today there are more professionals in the SNS than three years ago. Rights and income were restored that had been stolen by PSD and CDS. The salaries and the payment of quality hours, as well as the weekly time of 35 hours, were restored. All these measures have the mark of the CFP and the struggle of workers. the PSD and CDS had opposition and their vote against. But it is necessary to continue this path and to move forward with solutions for defrosting progressions, for the replacement of the career of medical action assistants and for the adequacy of other careers that have been created in the meantime, including senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, who have to respect their rights, in particular in the process of transition to the new career. It is necessary to move forward with a review of nurses' career that guarantees the appreciation and dignity of the work developed by these professionals. Measures should be taken to reduce the use of jobs and to ensure the right linkage of professionals in order to ensure permanent needs, including hospital emergency services. It is necessary to move forward with solutions for medical care for family doctors, reducing the list of users, for hospital doctors, reducing the number of hours in emergency services. Mrs Minister, by valuing all the positive measures that have been taken in recent years, we reaffirm that the way is not going back, we need to move forward in solving the existing problems. Health professionals struggle for the valorization of careers and their wage grids, for the thawing of career progression and for the hiring of more professionals to meet the deficiencies in the various levels of health care. The resolution of these problems and the implementation of the just demands must be carried out quickly. The PS Government must hire the professionals in need to strengthen public response. The PS government must value careers, advance progress and increase wages to fix the National Health Service professionals. The PS government must take all these measures to strengthen public services to win the offensive against the SNS and defend the right to health of business ideology imposed by the economic groups and here again defended by PSD and CDS. Madam Minister, I ask you: what option will the government take? Will it give priority to the deficit targets imposed by the European Union or will it take courage to defend the rights of health professionals as an integral part of the SNS defense? Will it give way to blackmailing the economic groups of the health sector or will it take bold steps to strengthen the response of public services to ensure that the right to health prevails over business ideology? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u93	Also for a request for clarification, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u94	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, your predecessor, of poor memory, proclaimed the Algarve as a priority in health, having been infamous for its commitment, signed at the beginning of 2016, that the main problems of the region would be solved in six months. It was not and, worse, it passed more than three years and the tragic hemorrhage is not stagnant, it worsens at unprecedented levels with the worst indicators that there is memory. See, Minister, user complaints grew into intolerable 19% in the country and in the Algarve they shot 103%. The Faro Hospital more than doubled the number of complaints in a year, there is a permanent breakdown of stocks of medicines and clinical material, which leads to, in both Faro and Portimão, as it was still recently made public, desperate screams in the form of divisional chiefs' offices saying that they cannot help people. of the country's health centers with more complaints, the Algarve began to have the first, the third and the eighth, respectively, Portimão, Albufeira and Faro. To obtain an orthopaedic consultation — a priority consultation — it is necessary, imagine, 1030 days of waiting! For a urology consultation it takes 1063 days! For a consultation of stomatology it takes 764 days! For neurosurgeries, 500 days are expected! The surgical interventions fell, the deaths in the emergencies fired, the University Hospital Center of Algarve (CHUA) of the university only has the name and this designation was broken by the gentlemen, because they cancelled a technical consensus that the Algarve hospital would be the second priority at the national level and preferred a political consensus, due to party options, neglecting the public interest. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Madam Minister, what can you tell people who now earn more € 5, € 10, € 15 per month—and the government says - but who have income parks? What access do they have to health when there are these waiting lists, when they are the most fragile, the most desperate, deadened by promises, but who, as you like to say, have more money in their pocket? They may have more money in their pocket, but they don't have doctors, they don't have references. And you can present lists, but the lists of the tenth third places are the waiting lists of people who stay hours, months, years waiting for a solution, which you do not offer. There are many tens of thousands excluded in the Algarve! Madam Minister, give an answer so that your name will not go from Fear to "fear" : feared by the algae, feared by the users, feared by the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u95	It can also be said that the PSD has lost the 'northern'!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u96	Having finished this first round of questions, I remember that there will be a second round of dimensions equivalent to the first round. The government will manage the time it is given for the answers it will give. To answer the first round of questions, Mr.Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, I would start by standing up, to make me hear better, not to be afraid. I would like to begin by addressing the theme of ADSE, underlining what we have said in this regard in the sense of ADSE to be a subsystem entirely supported by the discounts of its beneficiaries, a special public institute with dual guardianship, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. Therefore, it is in this context that the Government relates to this institute, which interacts with its Governing Council, its General and Supervisory Council, trying to find with them the best solutions, that do not deviate from what is obviously the intransigent defence of the interests of the beneficiaries, the intransigent defense of their discounts, the intransigent defense of their right of access, and, concomitantly, maintaining the necessary good sense in all this process. It is clear that we will never deal with any blackmail from anywhere she comes from.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u98	Chantage? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u99	It is clear that we will use all the means at our disposal to defend the beneficiaries of ADSE, as we have already done on other topics. however, it is up to me to inform you that, at the moment, the perspective we have is that it will be possible to reach an agreement with private providers, not impermissible, not putting into question, not confiscating what regularizations and the process are associated with them, without in fact putting any obstacle to what new tables are also worked and defined and that they may be guiding the financial relations between ADSE and private providers. I'd still like to tell you about this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are one of the concerns of this dual guardianship, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, is the issue of improving the management of ADSE itself. Cartelisation has its own answers, it has answers in terms of competition law. The blackmail of the private or the possible blackmail of some private operators on any insurance mechanism, whether this or other, will certainly be something that we will never be able to give up. In any case, there is something we also need to do concomitantly, which is related to the need for better control of turnover, of more efficient management mechanisms within the public institute itself which is ADSE. I would also like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the question of how we view the relationship between the two sectors, the public sector and the private sector/social sector, which we do not go back to what we have already mentioned. And that is why we are committed to strengthening the National Health Service, strengthening its capacity, maximizing internalization, not carrying out acquisitions to other sectors, except when strictly necessary and by imperatives of public interest. That is why we have pursued the objective that hospitals of the National Health Service increasingly internalize responses that were given by other agents in the area of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, even though this means strengthening human means contracts. That is also why, today, we have chosen to re-evaluate what capacity is installed in the operating blocks in our National Health Service, in the certainty that we will always use the private sector and the social sector as the conventional sectors to keep the maximum response times guaranteed, but we will not hesitate to do what is expected of us: maximize the means we have at our disposal, manage them efficiently. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's also why, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to oral health and to strengthening it. It is worth saying that, at the beginning of this legislature, the only response we had in terms of oral health in the National Health Service was given by the dentist, moreover, he himself an instrument of a Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we have chosen to do, sirs. Members, it was to provide health centres, primary health care, proximity responses, the capacity installed in this area of oral health. And that's why we have so far more than 60 health centers with capacity installed in this area and we hope to achieve a coverage target of 60% of the municipalities with this type of responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u100	60%? Wow!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u101	We have worked with dentists and stomatologists to ensure the human resources that are essential to this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u102	Answer me, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u103	I understand that anyone who does not see the development and affirmation of the SNS likes to cause noise, but we will not deviate from our path.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u104	Answer me, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u105	We will not deviate from our path, and that is why we have not given up on thinking, at a time that cannot be the current one, in other careers for the National Health Service, namely the much needed reflection on what one day could be the best framework of health assistants' professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u106	One day!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u107	This is also why we do not give up the superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy, for which we intend to open competitions, still in the next month of March, in order to ensure career progression. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why, in the workplace with nursing professionals, within the framework of the public consultation on career, we will continue to find points of approach and answers to what is expected of us: motivated professionals and to work well in the National Health Service. I would like to point out that the data on child mortality available at this date are still provisional. It is not surprising that you insist on asking for provisional data and do not make a reference to the data issued yesterday on Portugal's position in the Euro Health Consumer Index. In any case, the data of the infant mortality we have — such provisionals, because we do not have the denominator yet, not because we do not want to have it, but because the INE ( National Institute of Statistics) has not yet available the number of live births calculated for 2018, but which will be very close to reality, because they were used in the National Program of Early Diagnosis of INSA ( National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge ) — point to a 1 percentage point degradation of the infant mortality rate compared to 2016. We look for possible causes for this, but it was not yet possible to complete this work, which goes through the evaluation of each of the death certificates and interaction with the providers where these deaths occurred. at this time, we are also interested to understand whether these deaths occurred in public or private environments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u108	Oh, is that important?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u109	Mrs. Members, with regard to the debts of January, in fact, the worsening which has resulted from what has been said does not prevent that even today, a strengthening of funds has been announced for the National Health Service which will, exactly, allow us to keep in line what our objectives are with what is the evolution of the economic year. I would also like to tell you that, this morning, the operating block of the Bragança hospital and the investment that was expected for it was already authorized by the Secretary of State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the Hospital Center of St. John and his integrated pediatric hospital, all the plans we had, of which we have spoken several times, remain. The project for the new work, which we still do not have, will be completed by the end of April and the work will start-CL this year or at the latest at the beginning of next year. I know it's a calendar that hasn't yet finished the detail of the month and day. I know you'll understand that what we've been trying to do is to talk about certain dates and, therefore, that's the timetable we're going to keep pointing out. Let me conclude by noting what has been the work with the public-private partnership of Braga, in which our effort has been to concentrate on a correct reversal, which safeguards the rights of the users and the expectations of the health professionals who work there. As we have already mentioned, the evaluation of the pending competition will be a topic on which we will then focus. Regarding voluntary interruptions of pregnancy and the report of the health regulator, it is worth saying that we read it with concern. We did not fail to note that the social communication of him only gave news about situations involving public hospitals and that the processes that were identified will now have the treatment and follow-up by the health regulator and that, of course, we will also follow. I conclude by saying that we have hired more health professionals for the National Health Service over these years and that we will continue to do so. Moreover, the Algarve hospital is an example, a hospital where we increase the number of doctors and the number of nurses in all the years of this legislature. This same is proven by the global increase in the care activity of our National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u110	We moved on to the second round of questions. First of all, Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of State, the National Health Service continues to be the only way to ensure quality responses to the health needs of all Portuguese people. The guarantee of the right to health and the response to the needs of users require investment in the National Health Service, either in the strengthening of the number of health professionals, or in the strengthening of investment in primary health care, integrated care and hospitals. Those who over time have played a role in right-wing policy, in particular the PSD and the CDS, during their governments, have resorted precisely to disinvestment to attack the SNS and reduce their response capacity. The consequences of right-wing policy and its impacts on the functioning of services are seen in the delays of surgery, in the waiting times for additional diagnostic examinations, in the delay in consultations and in emergency care. The measures taken in recent times are not enough to overcome the difficulties and the PS Government must move forward in response to these and other difficulties, implementing the necessary investment measures and using all the budgetary resources at its disposal. The option cannot be the priority for the accelerated reduction of the budget deficit, it must be the strengthening of investment in public services in all its dimensions. It is the right to health that is at stake and the investment in SNS is the way to guarantee it! in the construction of new hospitals and health centers, or in the improvement of existing facilities, it is necessary to move forward with investment in the SNS. in the modernization of equipment and in the strengthening of the capacity of complementary means of diagnosis in public services, it is necessary to move forward with investment in the SNS. in strengthening the primary health care network and the proximity response, it is necessary to move forward with the investment in the SNS. Mr. Minister, what investment option will the government make? Will it give priority to the deficit targets imposed by the European Union, or will it take priority of the investment in the SNS to increase the responsiveness of public services? Will it give way to blackmailing the economic groups of the health sector, or will it expand and strengthen the public response and improve the quality with the investment in the SNS that is necessary? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u112	Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u113	Mr President, Minister, today's appeal is another example of the political farce of the current parliamentary majority. A majority that was only possible thanks to deception, hypocrisy and the particular interest of the parties of the situation. In fact, what other way is it to qualify extreme-left parties who support the PS government in budgetary policy which, at the same time, criticize it for disinvesting and debasing the National Health Service? But let's go to the facts: health, in the port district, is sick! From the Hospital Center of Póvoa-Vila do Conde, whose state of degradation of the electrical facilities has already caused two fires and which needs urgent works, to the Hospital of São João, which continues without a pediatric wing after four years of socialist governance, going through the degradation of the Hospital Center Gaia / Espinho, whose professionals experience an irreparable dissatisfaction. Another situation is related to the Hospital Center of the Thamega and Sousa, which is one of the most efficient hospitals in the country, but in relation to which, due to the garrote of the Finances, has assisted a constant deferral of fundamental projects, such as the expansion of the urgency, the expansion of the external consultation or even the project of energy efficiency. Penafiel's unit is under enormous pressure and Amarante's unit is the solution to relieve this pressure. So, Mr. Minister, do you intend to bet on increasing the capacity of the unit of Amarante, either at infrastructure level or at human resources level? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, reflecting this degradation and this disinvestment are the high waiting times for consultations in the hospitals of the SNS, in the district of Porto. I give some examples: at Vila Nova de Gaia / Espinho Hospital Center, a simple pneumology consultation has a waiting time of 706 days — two years, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! A gastroenterology consultation has in this hospital a waiting time of 308 days — 10 months! in the Hospital Center of São João, a pediatric surgery consultation takes 158 days, time that rises for 208 days, in the case of general surgery, and even for 508 days, in the specialty of pneumology! These are just a few examples of the result of the policies of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block! This is your inheritance, the inheritance of which they are responsible and for which they will be judged by the Portuguese in the forthcoming elections! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u114	Mr João Marques, from the PS, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u115	Mr President, Minister, the Socialist Party understands that ADSE has a good story to tell, as a solidarity fund, and that, despite all this turmoil caused by some private health groups, it will certainly have an even better future, which will not definitely pass through the privatization of ADSE, as it has been given here to understand by the CDS. ADSE is its beneficiaries and the intransigent defence of its interests should be the focus of its Executive and General and Supervisory Boards and Guardianship, and ADSE should continue this work to optimize the control and supervision processes it has been carrying out! We believe that, with responsibility and seriousness, and as mentioned above, the process of regularization of overcrowding will be resolved and the parties will reach a point of understanding, which will resolve the problem in a fair and transparent manner, ensuring the continuity of care provided to the beneficiaries. Mr Minister, in addition to the optimization of management, the strengthening of ADSE sustainability will have to pass through both expenditure control and increased revenue. I therefore ask: is the Minister in a position to inform us of the extent to which the process of negotiating the ADSE tables with closed prices will end this type of regularization process in the future? On the other hand, the ageing of beneficiaries and the increase in health care costs should be offset by the entry of new beneficiaries, according to the General and Supervisory Council. And for the sake of justice and sustainability of the system, enlargement to individual employment contracts in public functions was proposed. What do you have to tell us about this, Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u116	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u117	Mr President, Minister, over the past four years, the Government has used all but even all of the files possible to postpone the resolution of very important matters for Madeira. The lack of will to resolve Madeira's affairs is very visible to us but it is also visible to all Maderians and Port-Saintes. And, in order to prove it, we will only mention two examples, once again asking the Minister two very simple questions, but which have so far not been answered by the Government. The Minister has, therefore, now another opportunity to answer these questions which we have been asking her but which have not yet been answered. Does the Minister add VAT or not to the legal rate in force, to the amounts and transfers due in respect of the financing of the new hospital in Madeira? Yes or no, Mrs. Minister? Mrs Minister, does the Government still wish to deduct the value of the funding promised to Madeira hospital the evaluation of Dr. Nelio Mendonça and the Marmeleiros hospitals? Yes or no, Mrs. Minister? As you can see, these questions are quite simple and easy to answer and therefore we still do not understand why, three months later, the government has not yet been able to answer them. Until then, Madam Minister, we are already at the end of February and your Government continues to postpone and extend these fundamental clarifications of the financing conditions of the new Madeira hospital, at a time when the Regional Government of Madeira has already advanced with the public tender for the pre-qualification of the construction of the work, having been even known this week the list of companies candidates for the construction of the new hospital. Finally, Madam Minister, we referred to another example of a postponement, but, in this case, an postponement which was even recognized by you in this House at a hearing in December, and which concerns the debt of EUR 18 million to the Regional Government on health subsystems. at the time, the Minister confessed that this debt has been protracted for a long time. Therefore, Minister, we would like to know when the Government will be available to pay this debt of EUR 18 million to the Regional Government of Madeira and what efforts the Minister has been making to solve this problem. There is no reason, Mrs Minister, for the delay and the protection of these issues unless these delays have, as we have already mentioned, a political significance and a very concrete intention to harm the Macedonians and Porto-Saintes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u118	Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u119	Mr President, Minister, the failure of this government's policies also in health matters is clearly demonstrated — in fact, the Portuguese check this easily every day. Mrs. Minister, it is not acceptable that in Évora, you should wait almost three years for a first general surgery consultation of obesity, one and a half years for a consultation of otorhinolaryngology, one and a half years for an orthopaedic consultation, one year for an ophthalmology consultation, and almost one year for a consultation of pneumology. And if we talk about surgery, that of obesity takes more than three years, that of otorhinolaryngology takes one and a half years, and out there, Mrs. Minister. Between the first consultation and their surgery, if we talk about obesity, it is almost six years to get an intervention, Mrs. Minister, and in otorhinolaryngology it is three years. It's too much time for those who have to wait for health reasons! Ms. Minister, it is also not acceptable for an oncological patient to leave Évora and go to Lisbon to receive a car transport of patients coming from Faro, go to Portalegre, come to Lisbon and, at the end of the day, make the reverse route. It is not acceptable for such to happen in the national health system. Mr Minister, what this government has done, with great capacity, was to go to Évora to launch a new hospital—and it is very important, no doubt. But what did you throw? It launched a notice of invitation to tender for Community funds. We are talking about EUR 40 million for a work that costs EUR 180 million, and we know that the rest is not in the State Budget for 2019, no one knows where the money is. Moreover, Mrs Minister, no one knows what the funds are for the construction of road networks for access, sanitation, and also for sewage infrastructure, no one knows, as well as for their compensation. No one knows who pays, Mrs. Minister! And the worst thing about this is that if they don't use Community funds by 31 December 2023, they're going to have to return everyone. How do you justify all this, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u120	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Caeiro from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u121	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the obvious inconsistencies between the government's speech and reality, as has already been shown here, from north to south of the country. There is an absolute incongruence between what the Government says and the reality of policies, especially with regard to human resources. Mr Minister, one of the first measures adopted by this Government was the replacement of 35 hours of weekly work, a replacement which was precipitated and which was absolutely nothing prepared. Now, this replacement has had very negative consequences for the users of the National Health Service and for all the care activities, contrary to what the Minister has been saying this afternoon and over time, and it has still had harmful consequences for professionals and for the sound management of the health budget. One first incongruity is this: Mr.Minister has been saying, always with quite variable data, that the number of professionals hired since the beginning of the Legislature rounds the 9,000. But where are they, Mrs. Minister, that no one sees them? Oh, my God! And above all no one sees the result of these contracts. We have the worst of both worlds. We have more spending with extraordinary hours and additional work—an increase of 300 million euros in two years between 2016 and 2018. Since July 2018 hospitals spend EUR 50 million each month on extraordinary hours and additional work. And despite this, we have the professionals absolutely exhausted and demotivated, that the avalanche of strikes is self-explaining. Madam Minister, let us see another incongruity: you have always spoken against the hiring of service providers to overcome the lack of professionals and to defend, yes, the hiring of effective workers — we must also agree with this position of principle. But once again, where are they? What's your impact? And once again, the cost with the hiring of professional doctors was 300 million euros, between 2016 and 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u123	Mrs. Minister, I mean one last incongruence. They learn with so much affection the affection, motherhood and paternity of the SNS. But if «the whole government is Centeno», then the Ministry of Health is the most hundred of all. And we have seen, in the area of health, scattered areas never before seen in this area, that human resources are a clear example here. In fact, we have the announcement of professionals hired, the use of extraordinary hours, the use of working doctors, but the waiting lists, Mrs Minister, do not stop increasing to unqualifying numbers, mentioned here by the PSD bench and which we subscribe to. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u124	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u125	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not make this appeal to overthrow the National Health Service. That's not our position.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u126	Yeah, no! That's the role of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u127	We haven't even come to this interpellation with catastrophic speeches of the type « this has never been so bad», because we know that this is not true and we even have concrete testimonies of it. A region that I follow with particular commitment is that of the Medium Tejo, where we know that there has been a great effort by the Middle Tejo Hospital Center to recover from a completely catastrophic pseudo-restructuring that was made during the previous government. We also know that, in this region, there has been a great effort to reduce the number of users without a family doctor. But there are very serious problems that still need to be solved and that need to be overcome. One of them has to do with the ability of the interior regions to attract professionals. It is very difficult to attract professionals to regions such as those located within the country, whether doctors or nurses, or operational assistants. There are difficulties in breaking the isolation of populations in smaller means, particularly in the interior and with older populations. The creation of USF (family health units) lies in urban centers and often with the closure of extensions in rural areas or more isolated villages. We have concrete testimony from situations like these. These populations are more isolated, with transport difficulties, with difficulties of access to health care. There is also the problem of the transport of patients. in that region, given the dispersion of the three units that make up the Middle Tejo Hospital Center, the number of daily, repeated, daily trips of patients from one hospital to the other reaches hundreds, besides there are patients who have to travel to valences that do not exist in the region, namely hemodialysis, and to the Portuguese Institute of Oncology, in which the patients have to leave home at 5 o'clock in the morning and return at night. These are situations with serious diseases. These are situations that have indeed to be overcome and we would like to know how the Government views them and what measures it provides for these situations to be resolved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u128	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Maria Manuela Tender, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, the right of populations to the provision of affordable and quality health care has been particularly concerned in the area of influence of the Hospital Centre de Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro, which has problems which have worsened and which this government has devalued, showing no willingness to resolve. I recall the chronic underfinancing of this hospital, recognized by the previous Minister, which did nothing to reverse this situation of financial asphyxiation which has had implications for the acquisition, replacement and maintenance of equipment and consumables, the allocation of human resources and the excessive centralization of responses in the hospital unit of Vila Real, thus removing the care of the populations of the most distant municipalities from the district capital. I also recall the loss of valences of Chaves hospital and the successive promise of works in the operating block; the postponed promise of requalification and reopening of the Peso da Régua hospital, closed by this government ; the lack of professionals; the failure of the maximum waiting time in consultations of various specialties, such as urology, with 1793 days, of angiology and vascular surgery, with 1000 days. I could give many other examples, Mrs. Minister. in the same way, the waiting times for surgeries are far above the maximum response times guaranteed in different areas. In short, a lost legislation for this region.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u131	Word given that it was not honored.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u133	How do you explain, Minister, this investment and this forgetfulness in a region so lacking in health responses? Where are the citizens of the Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u134	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs. Marisabel Moutela, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u135	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, in the debate last week about health, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite announced to us that the PSD should assume itself as a mother of the SNS. It was not our continuous attention and we would not have been displeased, because the SNS, this child, would be given to care and would be defended by two parents. The truth, ladies. Members of the PSD, it is that this « motherhood » brings to mind the complaints of a senior PSD leader, at the time until Prime Minister, who came to warn Portugal about the way the PSD and the family, this family, treated their own children. Do You Remember? It was a child who, after a difficult delivery, had gone to an incubator. And what did your family do to him? Cito: « Stales and kicks». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these ill-treatments have been extended by your government to the SNS during your governance, because what happened was de-investment, dismantling, it was backward. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Vales.]] Fortunately, the SNS has in socialists a family that does not abdicate from it, that invests in it, that wants it robust and capable. That is what the government has been doing, and that is why Portugal, in the European health ranking, has passed from 20. the place, where it was in 2005, for 13. the year 2018. It is an international and impartial entity that says so. Madam Minister, we know that we need to continue to work and work. We are concerned about the levels of acquired and highly resistant hospital infections. How are we going to overcome this problem? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u136	Questions are, the government doesn't like them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u137	Also for a request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u138	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys, the Minister said here today—in fact, Prime Minister has already said so—that the Ministry of Health has never invested so much in this area. While he says this cheerfully and while he is campaigning, the naked and cruel truth completely wipes out the illusion of the government. Mrs. Minister, speaking in numbers, which she also brought here, did you know that, for example, a study that she went out today — she mentioned one study and I mean another — tells us that in hospitals, more patients die because of medical neglect than in road accidents? Oh, my God! Do you know how many people died in road accidents in 2018? Oh, my God! It was 517 people. Mrs. Minister, do you know that, for example, in the Guard, a heart patient can only be sick on the third and fifth fairs? Oh, my God! It's just that in the other days, there's no doctor. For example, a very priority consultation of those consultations in which we are faced with cases of life or death, do you know how long it takes? Oh, my God! It takes seven months. There are consultations of otorhinolaryngology four days a month in Guarda, in 30 days. The waiting time in orthopaedics is two years and six months and ophthalmology is two years and two months. In gastroenterology there are consultations once a week and endoscopy and colonoscopy take infinite times. at Seia hospital, ophthalmology consultations take three years and nine months.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u139	Sir, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u140	I'm done now, Mr. President. For external consultations, at Seia hospital, people enter at 6 o'clock in the morning and leave at 4 o'clock in the afternoon. Mrs. Minister, we want you to tell us, we all want to know, how does the Minister want to deal with the living in the guard district. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u141	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that the question of waiting times is not an exclusive of our health system. Moreover, the report on which we have spoken several times today, which puts us in 13. the place and which fills us with satisfaction for this reason, does not fail to point out that one aspect where Portugal has the greatest progress is, exactly, with regard to the maximum guaranteed response times, and shows that other health systems may be richer, or at least from richer countries, such as Norway, Sweden and Finland, have exactly the same problem. In addition, it goes further and says: "This problem is not just a resource problem, it is an organisational problem. Not that, countries with greater resources would certainly have overcome it.' [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not say this to explain or justify, or to exempt myself from the work we have to do. It is clear that there are many situations in the National Health Service that do not run well in terms of waiting times. In any case, I cannot but emphasise that there has been an improvement in compliance with the guaranteed maximum response times for very priority and priority consultations in this Parliament. It was in those with a normal priority that progress did not occur and there was even some backwardness. This does not invalidate that, for each of the negative cases that you have in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, when we meet on these occasions, there is no positive case. I'd like to talk about Vila Real. I would like to talk about urology in Vila Real, where normal priority does not run well, but where endocrinology, in normal priority, runs well, because it reduced from 164 days to 32 days. The neurology, in normal priority, went very badly, 408 days, and now, still in need of progress, of about 200 days. I would also like to talk about otorhinolaryngology, where, despite the situation that we receive being 323 days, the waiting time is today 246 days. I'd like to talk to you about other cases, for example, the Guard case. We know what happens in normal priority orthopedics, but we also know what positive evolution was made in normal priority neurology. There is a long way to do in these matters, of course, it is in sight, but it is not investing in the National Health Service or attacking - what we will be able to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take this path. I know you are. Members like maps, because they make it easier for everyone to read, and also brought a set of maps. I have here one representing the investment we made in the National Health Service, where on a blue line we show the plus EUR 1500 million we invested in the National Health Service. [[In the meantime, Mrs. Minister displayed a chart.]] As far as investment in human resources is concerned, it is perhaps the greatest we can do, and they will not say that it is investment in cement that they want to favour. We need him, it's true, but we don't favour him. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'd like to tell you, too, gentlemen. Members, that the human resources of the National Health Service, the most 8800 professionals, have not disappeared either. The National Health Service, when we received it — I apologize for not having a very clear image here — had a smaller number of professionals, as you can see from this chart, and the way we did was to increase. I repeat, this was the way we made it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, Mrs. Minister displayed a chart.]] The professionals of the National Health Service are not missing. They're working and I'm sure we can keep counting on them. I'd like to talk to you again, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the hospital units of Vila Real and Peso da Régua, specifically the hospital of Peso da Régua. This was closed following a legionella, it was not the government that took the decision to close the unit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it's worth saying, too, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that we will never give up strengthening the National Health Service, improving its efficiency, and if that means it is worth thinking about what will be the destination of the hospital unit of Peso da Régua, in the best response efficiency we owe that population, we will do it. We have done this with the local authorities and we will continue to do it, both in the Régua and elsewhere, and in Évora, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, where we have already implemented the launch of the new hospital with a budget of EUR 40 million, but we do not know that we need such funding to meet those who are the needs of the construction of the new central hospital of Alentejo. However, we need a project, in fact, a project is absolutely essential to begin any work and it is something that people often seem to forget. It's worth saying, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, on the question of 35 hours, that this was a clear option that we have made. We have made this option and we are not sorry to have done it, because it was part of our Programme, I would like to compliment you and we will honor you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is up to us now to maintain the strengthening of the National Health Service with professionals and to bet on its efficiency and on the best quality of its performance. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the question of Madeira's hospital, I would like to point out to you that everything seems to be going well, regardless of the more financial issues that have been raised, since, as far as it is known, the delivery of proposals is under way and therefore this project, so ambitious, will continue. Mr President, if possible, since the Government still has one minute, I would like to allow Mr. Secretary of State to leave some additional notes on ADSE. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u143	in the time still available, then has the word Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Francisco Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on ADSE, what is currently under way today is a work in order to normalize how ADSE makes conventions with the entities that are available for this, of course, by concluding the work of publishing new tables, as the President of the Governing Council will certainly have had the opportunity to confirm this morning in the Parliamentary Health Commission, and it is expected that in mid-March they will be available. This means that the method, in fact, is not perfect for regularisation; but, of course, existing, they have to be met, creating conditions for the right of ADSE beneficiaries to continue to be respected and followed, confirming that ADSE is a subsystem that protects public sector workers, being financed almost exclusively by these workers, and ensuring that these discounts have the best use, with rigor and effectiveness. That is why, of course, ADSE is working, all its elements, and these are the guidelines of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u145	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the intervention period. On behalf of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u146	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: One of the biggest gains of the SNS has undoubtedly been the widespread coverage of primary health care throughout the national territory. It was even the health centers and the health extensions created throughout the country that made Portugal achieve excellent results in terms of health indicators, such as health promotion, child mortality reduction and increased life expectancy. Although SNS has been the victim of ruthless attacks by PSD/CDS governments and, it is true, also PS, primary health care deserves the confidence of Portuguese people, thanks to the effort and dedication of their professionals. It is undeniable that primary health care is faced with difficulties in its response capacity, which largely results from the government's options in budgetary implementation, but also due to the closure of proximity services and the lack of health professionals. We cannot forget that the PSD/CDS government has left more than 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u147	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u148	Since 2016, steps have been taken, although timidly and insufficiently, to reverse the direction of de-investment in the National Health Service and especially in primary health care. The truth is that it is necessary to go further and move forward in response to SNS problems, especially in primary health care, because without investment in primary health care there will be no promotion of health or prevention of the disease and access to health care will be compromised. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The path must be to advance and ensure adequate and efficient national coverage at the level of primary health care, continued care and palliative care. It is necessary to advance and provide primary health care, including USFs, UCSPs (custom health care units) and UCCs ( community care units), financial, technical and human resources necessary to carry out their preventive and health promotion mission, but also diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. It is necessary to move forward and put an end to existing inequalities in the conditions of operation, care and work between UCSPs, USFs and CCUs. It is necessary to value health professionals socially and professionally, ensuring working and training conditions, career links and fair remuneration. It is necessary to advance and extend responses in the areas of oral and visual health throughout the national territory, as well as to provide primary health care for equipment for the realization of complementary means of diagnosis. It is necessary to move forward in palliative care, with particular attention to the implementation of Community support teams in palliative care, so that they can care for patients at home. It is necessary to advance and strengthen support for informal caregivers, developing a network of support for informal caregivers based on public services, including in the areas of health, work and social security. Mrs. Minister, it is necessary to move forward and ensure that all Portuguese have a family doctor and nurse. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u149	Mr António Sales has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u150	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I found myself, at the beginning of this week, probably like the Minister and many thousands of Portuguese, with an infomail from the President of the PSD, Dr. Rui Rio, placed in our mailbox. in this document, at a certain time, one can read: « (...) I have tried to get parties to dialogue with each other, relegating their interests to the background. We know that the dominant party culture is the opposite. It's the one on the bottom. But Portugal requires us not to do so. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u151	He's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u152	Mr. Minister, this is the biggest criticism the PSD President makes to PSD Members who, in this House, when they talk about health, use the rhetoric of the bottom button. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Madam Minister, it is appropriate to ask the PSD Members: why do they not take the guidance of your leader, since your attitude is always that of the bottom-down? Have you not received your President's infomail? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u153	They didn't read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u154	Or do they continue to disagree with your leadership and prefer to follow the guidance of the CDS leader, who now stands as the right leader in his standing-down speech? [[PSD protests.]] Ms. Minister of Health, PSD and CDS present themselves today in this debate as false advocates of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u155	It's okay, then? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u156	It is appropriate to ask, Ms. Minister : where were PSD and CDS in 2011 and 2015 when they closed emergency services and frozen therapeutic innovation? [[Protests by PSD Members Conceição Bessa Ruão and Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Where were PSD and CDS, when they increased moderate rates, reduced income and restricted the ability to acquire medicines by families? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Where were PSD and CDS between 2011 and 2015 when they reduced health funding, when they reduced human resources, when they reduced health investment? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. PSD and CDS members were probably where they always were, supporting a policy of weakening the National Health Service to justify the strengthening of private supply, surgically taking advantage of newspaper titles and motions of censorship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Conceição Bessa Ruão and Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Yesterday, like today, your goal is always the same: to end the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u157	It's hard! After you destroy it, it's hard!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u158	Mr. João Dias, of the PCP, the PS defends the National Health Service, as its history shows; the PS defends the National Health Service, as shown by the measures already taken in this legislature ; the PS defends the National Health Service as a political priority visible in the proposal for a basic law that has recently presented. There is no doubt, Mr President, that it will not be possible for this government, like any other with a sense of responsibility, to immediately satisfy all requests or claims, however legitimate and plausible they may be. We can't go back! We will have to continue, in a serious and committed way, in the best choices, with the resources available, in order to ensure the sustainability of the National Health Service and in order to improve access to the SNS and the quality of life of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u159	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u160	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was over a year ago that the Left Block here, in the Assembly of the Republic, handed over its proposal for a new health-based law. We note that, although it is too late, other parties have joined us, as well as the government, so today we are in a position to make a new law which repeals the 1990s and erases and corrects all the errors and problems that the PSD and the CDS-PP have brought with their law, as measured by the economic groups. Be willing by the Socialist Party and the Government and we will have a new basic law in this legislature to strengthen the National Health Service, a new basic law that increases the capacity and improves the quality of the response of the National Health Service. For this, a new law is needed, as we have said, to separate public and private, whether at the level of management or at the level of health care provision, for a very simple reason: the budget of the National Health Service should be invested in the National Health Service and should not be used to finance the private business. For this, a new basic law is needed that removes barriers to access to health care and therefore moderate rates cannot be paid, co-payments cannot be covered by moderate rates nor users should be prevented from accessing treatments and consultations because they cannot pay moderate rates or because they often cannot afford transport to go to such treatments. For this, a new law of bases is needed that captures and sets professionals in the National Health Service, and this is done with public bond, career, career progression, professional exclusivity and full-time dedication in the National Health Service. Yes, this new basic law must be modernized with regard to public health, literature for health, health promotion, disease prevention, must be built with the paradigm of health in all policies, but must also break with the wrong path of gradual privatization of the system. The PSD and the CDS-PP said that the SNS could facilitate the mobility of its employees to the private sector and that is what they entered into the basic law of 1990. Obviously, we have to break this path to have more professionals in the National Health Service. The PSD and the CDS said that the National Health Service should abdicate, for example, from internment beds to guarantee a market share to the private and that is what is there, in its basic law of 1990. We must break this path to ensure better health care for users. The PSD and the CDS-PP are now also proposing to deepen all these errors, i.e. that public-private partnerships be maintained, that new public-private partnerships be encouraged, that public equipment be delivered to the private, that business be encouraged through public resources, and that is the way that should not be taken. The path to a new law of bases is the way to a National Public Health Service, universal, general, free of charge, quality and without misconception about these aspects. This must be the way of a new basic law, but not only, this must be the way of all policies in the field of health, and many do not need to wait for a new basic law. On participating management, there is a bill of the Left Block, to be discussed next March 15th, so that users are more involved in planning, defining and managing health policies. It is already possible to ensure greater participation of citizens in the National Health Service. As far as user rights are concerned, yesterday we even learned more about a violation of the patient's right to be followed in the services of the National Health Service. It is not acceptable either this case or any other case that may have happened in the past or that may have happened in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u162	The Left Block approved in this same Assembly of the Republic a project for the Government to make a survey of all internal regulations of the hospitals of the National Health Service and to force these internal regulations to comply with the law. The Government has not done so and has not submitted the report to the Assembly of the Republic, but it must do so because the right of users is to take seriously, not to be dead letters in the law. In relation to the investment, in the State Budget for 2019, the proposal of the Left Block was approved to initiate the procedures for the construction of new hospitals in the Algarve, in the Povoa do Varzim, in Vila do Conde, in Barcelos, for example, and for the expansion of others, such as the Beja hospital, to give an example. at present, the Government has the budgetary instruments necessary to make this investment and can do it now, it does not need to wait for a new basic law. Regarding the need for more professionals, a proposal from the Left Block for the launch of an extraordinary competition for the training of more specialists was approved in the State Budget for 2019. The Government has the budgetary and legal instruments to train more specialists, including the possibility of using preferred vacancies to train and fix new doctors, especially in the most deprived areas of the country. On the appreciation of the professionals, we will also discuss on March 15th a bill of the Left Block for the creation of the career of health assistant technician and a parliamentary assessment on the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians has already been presented because we want all years of service to be effectively accounted for. We will also be attentive to the publication and changes to the career of nurses, because any change must be to value the working time and the differentiation of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u164	All this can and must be done now, there are the instruments and no longer has to wait. We know that the PSD and CDS-PP expect nothing and therefore the challenge is launched to the Socialist Party and to the Government of the Socialist Party. We know that the PSD has finally confessed to being single, because it has certainly lost its alliance in a field that is currently in competition with the PSD, and that the CDS-PP is more busy defending the private in blackmailing ADSE, therefore the challenge is even for the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party. We need to make a new basic law...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u165	And we must conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u166	I'm done now, Madam President. But it is also necessary to do all of this that the Left Block mentioned here. for our part, we are willing to do all this until the end of the legislature, it is necessary for the Government and the Socialist Party to say whether they are also willing to do so until the end of the legislature. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u167	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u168	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys : At the end of this debate, what we have here today, unfortunately, of reaffirming is that Portuguese have reason to be concerned about the state of their health, with the state to which this government has led health. The SNS is undoubtedly worse and it is not just the CDS that says it, it will suffice, as Mrs. Minister said, to listen to the people, to listen to the Portuguese, to those who go every day to health services, to listen to the professionals, to listen to Mrs. Carla Cruz today, in the morning, at the TSF say that the SNS has never been as bad as it is now. [[False! It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u169	No, it's not false, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! The balance sheet of these three years of governance of your responsibility, with the support of the united Left Banks, is indeed very negative. Unfortunately, there is a dissatisfaction of professionals, which is grueling, with a lack of social peace, a lack of negotiating capacity, with clear damage to the health of Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u170	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u171	...we have insufficient and exhausted human resources, with subsequent resignations. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a page of the Diário de Leiria newspaper.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u172	That's just newspapers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u173	The last ones we had noticed were Leiria, but from north to south of the country this has also happened. And you know why, Minister? Invoking lack of working conditions and lack of safety conditions for users. It is very serious, in a country in Europe, that there is no listening to what professionals say in this regard. But more: as has already been widely disclosed, we have worse accessibility to consultations and treatments. And you know why, Minister? As they say today in Leiria, due to lack of human resources, such as you said you hired but neither we nor professionals know where they are. Therefore, on this occasion, when they continue not to lower their debts to suppliers — in view of the 2015 values, unlike your propaganda, they have not decreased, they have not been reduced — in fact, we have all the reasons for concern. And on this occasion, as it was also evident in this debate, in which ideology is thrown over the problems when they are not resolved with ideology, Mrs. Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u174	Yeah, no! But it's not to send everything to the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u175	... we want to draw attention, on this occasion when the ADSE and the law of health bases are discussed, surely relevant themes, that these cannot serve as a cover for smoking, to conceal the dire reality of the National Health Service, the responsibility you have on this reality, the responsibility you have for the discontent of the professionals and the mistrust they look at this government. And, speaking of smoke curtain, I wanted to remember that, once again, today, here, what we saw was a number of illusionism, contortionism of the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, who come to say: "No, this is worse but it has nothing to do with us! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” By chance, it was you who made four budgets available, which are only the main instrument of government action. So how can they want to be taken seriously? Oh, my God! No one takes you seriously, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira and PCP MP Francisco Lopes.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that indeed for this government health has not been a priority. For this government, for the Socialist Party and for the benches that support and enable, in each budget, this government, health has not been a priority and we need clear changes. Mrs. Minister said it was about to move forward. It will certainly not be with the Socialist Party and the united left that we are going to move forward. The Portuguese are no longer being deceived and probably the CDS will do its part. with us, be sure health will move forward! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u176	The Portuguese know what they want!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u177	For an intervention by The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u178	Madam President, Mrs Galriça Neto, at least from the Greens has never heard of things being worse. In fact, I think it should be hard that things were worse than you left them. It must be very difficult!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u180	Actually, Mrs. Minister, things aren't worse but they're not okay.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u181	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u182	It's different than saying that! But we also know that the problem is not today and that the situation that is now under way is the result of the structural insufficiency of political options from various governments that over the decades have insisted on the underfinancing of the SNS. Furthermore, in this context, it is never too much to remember the closure of health services throughout the country, the reduction of beds and health professionals, the sharp degradation of the rights and working conditions of health professionals, who, coming from behind, reached all limits with the previous government, as we know. As for health professionals, it should be borne in mind that by the hand of the PSD/CDS government, health lost more than 7000 professionals, which naturally aggravated the response capacity in both the health centers and hospitals of the SNS. Madam Minister, the Greens do not intend to devalue the steps taken in this legislature in order to counter these policies that have left health more fragile than ever. Today, we have more doctors, more nurses, more diagnostic technicians and, in general, more health professionals in several areas. But the truth is it's not enough. We have more professionals, of course, but it is also true that they are still insufficient. In addition, it is also necessary to solve the problem of careers of these professionals, and we refer not only to nurses, we also refer to diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and, in general, to all health professionals. It is also absolutely imperative to respond to the other problems with which health is faced, in particular to situations of rupture that are in many emergency services, to times of waiting for consultations, which are beginning to be intolerable, to the lack of equipment that is felt in many hospitals and, above all, it is necessary to remove obstacles to access to health care. There is therefore much to do, Mrs. Minister, to ensure the universal nature of the National Health Service. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u183	For another intervention by the Socialist Party, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current moment puts before us the need to humbly tell everyone that we are working and we continue to work for a SNS that serves the Portuguese and preserves the rights to health protection. Today, in this debate, we talked about people, because they are the ones that benefit us when we build the paths and health solutions in Portugal. Yes, people are not numbers, but it is important to underline some numbers so that the echoes of a certain demagogy of 'the worse the better' do not last and echo more than would be legitimate. The PSD and CDS claim more primary health care, but this can only be a burden on the conscience, because between 2011 and 2015, there were less than 3% of non-emergency consultations in primary health care. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] Today, on the contrary, by the hand of the PS Government, more than we have recovered this break in primary health care consultations and we will count, until the end of the legislature, on the construction and opening of 30 new health centres, with the support of the most 104 USF, created by the end of last year, with more than 23 planned for 2019, and also with a coverage of 93, 3 % Portuguese with a family doctor. The PSD and CDS require what they have not done, clearly trying to clear their bad conscience, but on my part and on the part of the Portuguese, they are already late.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u186	They call for more surgeries. But imagine! — even with a 40-day wild strike of nursing professionals...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u188	Wildlings are the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u189	... to the surgeries, with an impact on at least 25% of the surgeries performed, the decrease of the surgeries scheduled in 2018, compared to 2017, was only 0, 79%. The PS serves the users but also serves the professionals, so we worked to restore wages, to defuse careers and to restore 35 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u190	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u191	We therefore invest more than EUR 307 million in all these measures to support professionals, because we believe that the SNS is done by people and people and we believe that they deserve our collective effort and commitment to have the best working conditions possible. by the hand of the PS government, we also kept accurate accounts and showed an increase in the actual expenditure that exceeds EUR 10 billion, increasing 12 % compared to 2015. Today, we have a less fragile and more autonomous SNS, ready to demonstrate all its strength in the year of 40 years to guarantee the commitments made with the citizens. Today, many sheep-dressed wolves try to show their teeth, but this gives us the certainty and awareness of the importance of our commitment in this always unfinished task of serving the SNS and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u192	The Bureau no longer registers. We will therefore continue with the closing period of the debate. Mr João Oliveira has the floor to speak on behalf of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this call, scheduled by the CFP, the conclusions are inconsequential. The National Health Service provides high quality health care to all users, regardless of their economic condition, being the only guarantee of compliance with the right to health. The reality demonstrates this and the path must be to advance in order to increase investment in the SNS in order to strengthen its response capacity, the extension of care provided and the improvement of quality, which is always possible to achieve. This path of advancement is made with options that place priority on the right to health rather than on the targets of the deficit imposed by the European Union; it is made with investment in the buildings and equipment of the SNS to modernize and improve the public response; it is done with the valorization of doctors, nurses, senior health technicians, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, administrative technicians and medical action assistants, with the valorization of their careers, their wages and the regulation of their working hours. These are the country's progress and development options that need to be done, breaking with the right-wing policy options and taking as far as possible, in the current correlation of forces, the defense measures of the SNS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u194	Is there a problem with the SNS? Of course there is! It would be difficult if there were not, after more than four decades of right-wing policy. But will everything be the same as it was with the previous PSD/CDS government? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u195	Of course not! Despite the PS Government's options having limited the response that would have been possible to address SNS problems, measures have been taken that have had a positive impact on the functioning of health services. No, Mrs. Isabel Galliça Neto, we are not today as we were with the previous PSD/CDS government, with reports of hospitals where there were no diapers and diapers were replaced by towels and garbage bags. We are not today in the situation we were in, with the patients of hepatitis C coming to the Assembly of the Republic to demand that the government save their lives because it saved the State budget at the cost of medicines. We're not in the same situation! [[PCP applause.]] The output of 4000 professionals between 2011 and 2015 was stopped and measures were taken to increase 9000 professionals in the National Health Service. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The rights and incomes stolen by PSD and CDS were restored, the wages and the payment of quality hours as well as the working time of 35 hours per week.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u196	Loures Chamber is you're stealing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u197	Exemptions in moderate rates were remedied. The cost of drugs was reduced through the promotion of generic medicines, some of the conditions for the allocation of transport of non-emergency patients were changed, the closure and concentration of services, increased investment in buildings and health equipment. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But it is also important to ask whether the options of the PS Government and the measures taken are sufficient to address the offensive against the SNS that economic groups, the PSD and the CDS are in progress. Of course not! Economic groups, which turn the disease into profit, are not content with the determining role the SNS continues to have and want to weaken public services to increase their business and profits. This explains the service provided by PSD and CDS, with its catastrophic and alarmist speech on the SNS. PSD and CDS attack the credibility of the SNS and devalue health professionals, seeking to create a climate of insecurity that favors the business of economic groups. Is this done in defense of SNS and users, especially those with lower economic resources? Oh, my God! Don't! It is done for the benefit of the economic groups, such as the speech of the alleged freedom of choice! Take the example of ADSE and see what that so-called freedom of choice would mean if health care were at the hands of private economic groups. For economic groups the health of users is always second in view of their profits, and these economic groups do not even care about leaving users without health care if this is necessary for their profits to remain untouchable, even when what is at stake is the refund of EUR 38 million wrongly charged to ADSE.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u199	Imagine what it would be if there were no SNS! ... Users could be deprived of health care overnight if economic groups considered this to be the blackmail tool to be used to defend more and more profits at the expense of Portuguese disease. [[PCP applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as much as the private economic groups and the PSD and the CDS try to deny the National Health Service to undermine its credibility, however violent it is the offensive that the SNS has been targeted, by the protagonists of right-wing policy and advocates of business ideology in health, reality confirms the unreplaceable role of the SNS in guaranteeing democratic access to health. The only way to ensure democratic access for all citizens to health is to ensure that the rich and poor are treated in the same hospitals and health services with the same care, and this is achieved only with the universal and general response of the SNS. Progress needs to be made in strengthening the SNS and this path also requires that the fair demands of professionals be met. A policy to defend the right to health requires that the appreciation of health professionals be considered as an integral element of improving the quality of health care. The definition of suitable careers with fair progression mechanisms and wages and working hours that avoid the exhaustion of professionals are essential measures to capture and maintain the best professionals in the SNS and ensure the improvement of the quality of care provided. A policy to defend the right to health requires a public management that does not aim to profit, but the quality of health care, by winning the business and PPP management logics that limit themselves to ensuring users what is in the contract and nothing more than that. It is no wonder that reports appear to weave into private management and PPPs. PPP hospitals select the users who want to care and the care they provide, pushing to the public services what spoils their statistics. This may serve the interests of the economic groups that benefit from these PPP contracts but harms users and prevents the progress and development of the country. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have brought this question to our firm conviction of the irreplaceable role that the SNS has in guaranteeing the right to health, an indispensable component of a democratic regime and of the way in which it is necessary to defend it. [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u200	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u201	I conclude, Mr. President. We have also brought to this debate the solutions that need to be put into practice in order to achieve these objectives. Users and health professionals know that they count on the PCP. The requirement is to know who stands on the side of the defense of the right to health and the SNS and who defends the ideology of business and the privatization of the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u202	For the closing intervention, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think this debate has shown that the PS has, in health matters, health policies and the National Health Service, its own way to defend the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[The PS?Oh, my God!]] [[The PS?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u204	I believe that the path we have seen in this area is consistent with what we stand for ideologically. Some benches keep the agenda of the day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u205	Yeah, yeah! The PS schedule! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u206	... that of cases that do not work well, and that there are. I recall that the SNS conducts approximately 45 million external consultations annually, about 31 million external consultations in primary health care and more than 12 million hospital consultations. I also recall that in 2018 the National Health Service performed more than 670,000 surgeries. Therefore, these numbers show the magnitude of the work we have to do. Some say we're surrounded by problems, but we're not. [[PSD protests.]] We've solved the problems, we've solved the problems! [[Continued PSD protests.]] The deficiencies in the National Health Service that we inherited, which we received with lack of human resources and investment, exceeded them and answered them with more revenue, answered them with more professionals, answered them with a sustained path. We respond to the Health Bases Law with clear choices. to hospitals in public-private partnerships we respond to them with what we had in our Program: evaluation, clear decisions and, above all, the awareness that the use of other providers in health is complementary. The alleged war with health professionals, which page some headlines, we solve it with dialogues. I'm afraid we're doing it and we're gonna keep doing it. The alleged threats to the extinction of conventions with ADSE, we resolve them by sitting at the table, talking together, working together, telling what we have seen and what we want. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the troika, the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme and the PSD/CDS Government, the National Health Service must be recovered and rehabilitated. This is a work that we have done every day and that we will continue to do: more than EUR 1300 million, more than 9000 health professionals, is a proposal of Health Bases Law that modernizes and clarifys the health system. But we will not take any greater steps than those which balance and our conditions of economic growth make possible. We learn from some past mistakes and we won't repeat them again. However, we will continue to extend the response capacity of the National Health Service. That is our purpose. We will continue to focus on people, improving working conditions, improving access times and, above all, obtaining health gains. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I finish by recalling the work done with those responsible for the agri-food industry to reduce salt, sugar and fatty acids levels in food products. This work is called health promotion. It is the most sustainable work for the future of public systems and for people, because they are the recipients of our work, regardless of the noise that continues around us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u207	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with the closing intervention by the Government, we have reached the end of the debate on the question. May I introduce you to the honourable Members. Members of the Government, who have now withdrawn, my compliments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u208	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Do PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u209	Before we move on to the next phase of our work, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u210	Mr. President and Mr. Members, has entered the Bureau, and has been admitted, draft resolution No 2018 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends the adoption of measures for the implementation in Portugal of the European Action Plan against Disinformation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 203 meetings, to which 8 are added — those of the Members. Deputies Susana Amador, Santinho Pacheco, José Manuel Carpinteira, Joana Lima and Odete João, of the PS, André Silva, of the PAN, and Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Cristóvão Norte, of the PSD, who failed to proceed to their electronic registration—making 211 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the voting. We begin with Vote No 747 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS and CDS-PP Members ) — Sadly the death of João Bigotte Chorão, who will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic became aware of the death last Saturday, in Lisbon, of the writer, essayist and literary critic João Dagoberto Forte Bigotte Chorão. I was 85 years old. Born in Guarda, in 1933, João Bigotte Chorão graduated in law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra, but it was especially in the field of literary criticism and autobiographical literature that was noted over several decades. Considered one of the greatest experts in the work of Camilo Castelo Branco, lets us several essays and literary criticisms about this and other major names of Portuguese literature, such as Almeida Garrett, Eça de Queiroz, Trindade Coelho, Carlos Malheiro Dias, Tomaz de Figueiredo or João de Araújo Correia, among others. from its journey through the world of letters and Portuguese culture also took part in the passage through Editorial Verbo, where he coordinated reference works such as the Encyclopedia of the 21st Century or the Encyclopedia Luso-Brazileira de Filosofia Logos, as well as collaboration with important literary journals, among which we can highlight the Colóquio / Letras or the Round Table. João Bigotte Chorão was a member of the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon and the Luso-Brazilian Institute of Philosophy. He also directed the Circle Eça de Queiroz. in the autobiographical record, which cultivated in a unique and superior way, João Bigotte Chorão published in 2001 the Almost Complete Diário, a work with which he won the Great Biographical Literature Award of the Portuguese Writers Association. in this work is clearly the deeply humanist trait of the writer, as well as his high intellectual and literary qualities, also reflected in works such as Interior Adventure, The Writer and City, The Spirit of the Letter, In addition to Literature and, already in 2018, the Diário 2000 - 2015. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express to the family and friends of João Bigotte Chorão the most significant concern for his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u213	We shall vote for this vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is the vote No 748 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Despite the death of José Carlos Sequeira Costa, who will be read by Ms. Secretary, Mrs. Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u214	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died at the age of 89 last February in Olathe, Kansas, in the United States, José Carlos Sequeira Costa, one of the largest Portuguese pianists of the last century and an illustrious pianist. His art is recorded in a wide record. An interpreter of great musical clarity, was able to associate the rigor and the requirement with creativity, being eximilar in the romantic report. Disciple of Vianna da Motta, trained in German and French piano schools with Mark Hamburg, Edwin Fischer, Marguerite Long and Jacques Fevrier. Through Vianna da Motta, a student of Liszt, José Carlos Sequeira Costa signed up spiritually in this great composer. Since very early on, his merit has been hailed in the large concert halls and as such was recognized by his peers. In 1951, at the age of 22, he received the Second Grand Prix International de Piano Marguerite Long. Founder, in 1957, of the Vianna da Motta Competition, which encouraged throughout life, José Carlos Sequeira Costa due to the proposal to create in 1979 the International Festival of Music of the Póvoa of Varzim — Costa Verde, much contributing to bring Portugal great names of the piano art. At the international level, he joined in 1958 the jury of the International Tchaikovsky Competition, at the invitation of Chostakovich, and was a jury of the Chopin Piano Competition as well as of others of high prestige. He didn't lack courage, either. in a time when this was not easy and evident, he divulged in our country the great Russian pianist school. As a teacher, he gave numerous classes and from 1976 he occupied the place of Cordelia Brown Murphy Distinguished Professor of Piano, at the University of Kansas. In 2004 he was thanked with the Great Cruz of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic deeply regrets the death of the illustrious citizen and addresses the family and friends of José Carlos Sequeira Costa to their deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u215	We shall vote for this vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to Vote No 749 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PSD ), regretting the death of Alberto Vieira, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u216	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last February 25th, died Alberto Vieira, a distinguished historian born on September 12th, 1956, whose vast scientific work made an unparalleled contribution to the knowledge of Madeira's history. Graduated in History by the University of Lisbon in 1981, he completed his doctorate in 1991 in the area of the History of Discoveries and Portuguese Expansion, by the University of Azores. his academic journey followed a career at the service of his native land, where early he entered the regional civil service as an investigator. In 2008, as a result of its scientific profusion, he was appointed president of the Centre for Atlantic History Studies, where he had worked since 1999. Its scientific legacy is based on works, articles and other writings on the history of the Atlantic islands, on the economic cycle of sugar, on slavery and on the development of regional autonomy. In 2004 he was thanked for the order of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic deeply regrets the death of the historian Alberto Vieira and addresses his family and friends with the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u217	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] to the relatives of the personalities whose memory we have just evoked, we present our respect and honor. Let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we follow the vote on draft resolution No 1643 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the reactivation of the Alfeite Arsenal Training School. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u218	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u219	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u220	It is to announce that we intend to make a statement of vote on this last vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u221	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u222	Mr President, it is only to announce that the PSD Members elected by the Setúbal district, as well as Mrs Paula Teixeira da Cruz, will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u223	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Ivan Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u224	Mr President, it is to announce that the Members of the Socialist Party elected by the Setúbal electoral circle will present a vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u225	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1973 / XIII / 4. a (The Greens) — Prevention of soil contamination and remedy to safeguard the environment and public health. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 1774 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Implementation of measures for the monitoring and depollution of watercourses in the Esmoriz Barrinha / Lagoa de Paramos. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1812 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote measures to eliminate pollution outbreaks in the Esmoriz / Lagoa de Paramos Quarter. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this initiative is also down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 1932 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the necessary inquiries to ensure that all spaces included in the Natura 2000 Network are properly preserved and preserved. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This initiative is also down to 11. the Commission. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1979 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government exempt the Governor of Banco de Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce the agenda for the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u226	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u227	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u228	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u229	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u230	Mr. President, I would like to ask...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u231	Sir, I'm sorry, just wait a minute. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the session is not over yet! I ask your understanding!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u233	Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u234	Mr President, I would like to ask whether the agenda which I would now announce — and already distributed to the House — meets the rules decided at the Conference of Leaders, of which Mr Vice-President, now President-in-Office, is even the author.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u235	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u236	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, there is a circumstance in the law that says that sometimes the interpreter has to find the norm for the specific case. The concrete case goes through the situation of having a period mediated by a phase of less intense parliamentary work than is normal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u237	What is the "normal"?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u238	In view of this, in fact, some deadlines are not fully met, if that allusion referred to.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u239	« Integrally», no! They're not met!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u240	We have the following circumstances: in the Conference of Leaders, the party responsible for the agenda provided information, in due course, on the marking of a power agenda and subsequently presented the content of that same agenda. Therefore, if admission was not made in the terms in which it was already made, we would have difficulty having objected to the agenda in question next Wednesday. This is the explanation that the Bureau has to give you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u241	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u242	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u243	Mr President, if I may, I am now correcting the facts. in the agenda at the Conference of Leaders it was not indicated that it was a legislative initiative, something that should have happened in good time and in the request to be sent to the Bureau. My question is whether this criterion applies only to the Socialist Party or whether it will apply to all benches.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u244	Mr President, I do not say that this was a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u245	But it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u246	Moreover, it is not a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u247	Oh, yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u248	On the other hand, I was careful to say that sometimes the interpreter needs to adapt the solution to the specific case. And the specific case is... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see the reason for your perplexity, since, apart from the inquiry being made, the agenda in question did not deserve repairs from any other parliamentary bench. Mr President, any unnecessary doubts about future solutions must, of course, be observed at a forthcoming Leaders Conference if any of the leaders of the parliamentary groups wish to raise a question on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u249	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to cooperate with the Bureau. Please, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u251	Mr President, I shall be very brief, just so that the CDS, as it is obvious, will remain in the position of the Left Block. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u252	The reason is very simple: the position of the Left Block complies with the law and with the truth, which seems not to help, but, as it is consistent with the law and the truth and how we believe that the principle of equality must be exercised, from the very outset, in the Assembly of the Republic, we disagreed with this agenda, made at the expense of the rules that the CDS and the Left Block did not want and of which they disagreed, but accepted. Now it is clear that there are, after all, certain rules that apply to each other that do not apply to others. This is deeply wrong and remains here the position of the CDS! It is also an impediment to such rules which have so occupied the Conference of Leaders and which, by the way, are only applied when they do so. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP and the Left Block Member José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-27.u253	I'm asking the ladies. Members responsible for the parliamentary groups which provide clarification that they consider appropriate at a forthcoming Leaders Conference. in this circumstance, we need to implement the agenda of the next plenary meeting and then I will announce it. The first and only point is for the assessment of draft resolution No 2018 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Recommends the adoption of measures for the implementation in Portugal of the European Action Plan against Disinformation The session will begin, as usual, at 3 p.m. on Wednesday. At the end of the debate, there will be a possible vote. Nothing else to deal with, the session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 58 minutes.]]
