ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the Authority please open the gallery doors to the public. Let's start our agenda. at this first point, discussion-CL will generally be the Bill No 190 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — It creates and regulates the functioning of the national financial supervision system. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today presents in this House the bill that creates and regulates the functioning of the national financial supervision system. This is the most comprehensive and comprehensive reform of the financial supervision carried out in Portugal. Financial supervision had never been looked at in an integrated way before, as it had never been attempted to make financial supervision a coherent system. This reform results in a deep reflection and intense discussion, questions competences, practices and options that have never been challenged before and are currently part of a system that has grown in a case-by-case manner. As Alexandre O' Neill would say, «a thing in the form of such». He looked at the past and the present, evaluated what went wrong with the sufficient distance and wondered what should be improved. It looked at the system in an integrated way. It was in this spirit that the Government created in 2016 a working group coordinated by Dr. Carlos Tavares, to whom it requested a report on the reform of the system. The proposal presented by the working group was clear and based on three principles: maintaining the sectoral model; strengthening coordination and cooperation between supervisors; and empowering the resolution function. The proposal I am presenting today gives shape to these principles and has been discussed and weighted. The working group's report was in public consultation, conferences were held with experts in the area, responses and comments were analysed, as were the views of supervisors, and above all, discussions were often discussed. Together, we evaluated different options. It was this process that resulted in this bill, a proposal made with everyone and, of course, with all the financial supervisors. The suggestions were considered and considered and, not being a consensus proposal, it is a systematic, integrated and balanced proposal. The Government proposes the establishment of a financial supervision system, of which the Banco de Portugal, the CMVM ( Committee on the Securities Market ), the ASF ( Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Pension Funds ), the National Council of Financial Supervisors and the resolution authority, which is very similar to the European model. The current National Council of Financial Supervisors is strengthened to ensure coordination between supervisors, which in the past has been very fragile. This Council shall gain legal personality and shall be able to have its own resources which enable it to operate autonomously. This Council is meeting regularly and its coordinating functions are being developed and there is a list of common matters to be discussed together by all supervisors. The National Council of Financial Supervisors is not a supervisor of the supervisors, they are the supervisors gathered together, working together in a strengthened framework of institutional cooperation, because they are all better supervised together. Also following the recommendations of this House, the bank resolution is entrusted to an autonomous entity of Banco de Portugal. This separation allows to eliminate conflicts of interest with banking supervision. In order to prepare the system for future developments, the resolution authority is able to receive the resolution powers of insurance entities and capital markets. It thus focuses on knowledge and experience in resolution matters in a single entity. The resolution authority is also assigned the management of the guarantee systems, which can be implemented in the event of a resolution — the Resolution Fund, but also the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the Investor Compensation System — by gaining efficiency in the joint management of these funds. Finally, the proposal for a law harmonises the statutes of supervisors with regard to their organs, their composition and their designation. The ethics rules are also strengthened: there are periods of disgust — at entry and exit — for all supervisors and administrators are prevented from having social and other economic interests in supervised entities. There is also a strengthening of transparency and accountability obligations through the extension of information to be provided to the Assembly of the Republic and to the public so that there can be a greater scrutiny of its activity, also by VV. Ex. The Government's proposal simplifies: eliminates positions in bodies from current supervisory authorities. The proposal we bring here does not entail any increased costs, because we had well in mind the care of costs and the efficiency of the system as a whole. Nor does it increase any supervisory rate; rather, it gives supervisors the power to set their rates, listening to their supervisors. The government will have no say in tax matters, but this will be a decision only by the supervisors. But the proposal goes further: it gives the financial supervisors full budgetary autonomy and removes the government from much of the supervisory bodies where it was represented. This, yes, is to strengthen the independence of supervisors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a proposal with the depth of this proposal which we are presenting today in this House raises questions, raises the debate and, of course, is subject to criticism. But no alternative model is born from all of the known criticisms. Some feel that it has gone beyond the desirable, others think that it has fallen short, which is evidence that we present a balanced proposal. A proposal that responds to what needs to be changed and that is indeed an amendment to the existing system. We have reached the greatest possible consensus, we have assumed the differences in a frontal way and I am here to explain to you the options we have taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u3	Mr. Secretary of State, he has already exceeded his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u4	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Some of the concerns expressed by supervisors and the ECB ( the European Central Bank ) are already accepted in the bill. Others may be accepted without misappropriating this proposal, in the case of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand that. For the government, leaving everything as it is is is not an option. Anyone who understands that financial supervision needs to be amended must approve this proposal and offer Portugal better supervision and more guarantees of a solid financial system, which result in better financing conditions for companies and greater security for family savings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u5	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. Not approving this proposal means deferring a fundamental issue, is ignoring the problems and the evidence we know every day, is waiting for the next problem to regret nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u7	Mr. Secretary of State, thank you very much. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u8	I am finishing and I will conclude briefly, Mr President. This is the time to affirm a clear and sound position on financial supervision, it is time to put an end to the widely dispersed ideas on this matter, which must be considered in a coherent manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u9	Mr. Secretary of State, you really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u10	The Portuguese hope that all political agents will be consistent with their words. This is the time to legislate and act. This is the time to give an answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u11	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Mr. Duarte Pacheco wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, I have listened carefully to your statement, Mr Secretary of State, and I have been waiting for an apology from the country at any time, in line with the new type of government communication, to be made here. An apology for the fact that in January 2016 the Minister of Finance considered it urgent to find a new supervisory model, because it took three years to present it and because when he does so, he finally presented something that does not have the agreement of anyone. Mr. Secretary of State, if you had been building a model that would seek the consent of the various agents, until you could understand it, but wait three years to deliver nothing only has one thing to do: to apologize to the Portuguese. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State, the reality is that you should perhaps be thinking that the Assembly of the Republic is the government's notary chart because it took three years to present a reform that they consider important and then want Parliament to approve it blindly in a month. Do you think this is a government resonance chamber? This is the second question I would like to leave you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u14	I have to ask the final question: why does this proposal have the opposition of all agents, whether the CMM, the Banco de Portugal, the Institute of Insurance, the Competition Authority, the European Central Bank? Because, Mr. Secretary of State, this proposal well mirrors your ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u15	What about yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u16	In socratic ideology, you sought to control the financial system completely with assaults on private banks from the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u18	Now, in the Costa era, private banks no longer reach you and want to assault independent entities and Banco de Portugal completely. [[PSD applause.]] This is the philosophy and the only motivation of this bill: to challenge the independence of regulators so that you can maneuver all the agents in the financial sector, so that they can be puppets in your hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u20	That is why this bill will deserve our opposition, from the first moment to the last day, if nothing is changed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u21	Mr President, the Secretary of State does not have time to answer. So you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The supervision of the financial system has failed sharply and this horrendous failure has had enormous costs for the public record. Let us remind ourselves of the scandal of BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ) which has cost taxpayers up to now EUR 4 billion from the collapse of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), which already goes to almost EUR 7 billion, or from the sinking of Banif ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ), which has required more than EUR 3000 million of public money. Whenever the State was called upon to intervene to cover the holes of irresponsible and incompetent private management, which, in some cases, was even criminal, the defenders of this private management rushed to point their finger at the insufficiency of supervision and inaction of supervisors. With this, they tried to divert attention from the real cause of the successive escalators of the national bank: the fact that the bank, rather than being a public service, has become a private business, where the central objective is the maximization of shareholders' profits in the shortest period of time, even if in order to achieve this objective it is necessary to compromise the future viability of financial institutions. If the root cause of the problems of the financial system is the private nature of its management, then the solution goes not through successive reforms of the supervisory system, not by the addition of successive regulatory layers, but by the public control of that financial system, placing it at the service of the country's development needs. As the CFP has defended, the need to contain the major systemic risks that persist for the economy, to prevent further transfers of private losses to the Portuguese people, to ensure the solvency, liquidity and regular functioning of financial institutions, and, in a broader perspective, to stop financial speculation, to channel savings and financial resources for investment in national production, to boost sustainable growth and to defend sovereignty requires the public control of the financial system. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Government today brings up a proposal for the establishment of the national financial supervision and regulation system for its operation. It maintains the three existing supervisory authorities — the Banco de Portugal, the Securities Market Committee and the Insurance Supervision Authority and the Pension Funds, proposes to strengthen the functions of the National Financial Supervisors Board, to establish a new banking resolution authority — the resolution and administration authority of guarantee systems — by moving all these entities to constitute the national financial supervision system. In summary, we can say that the government fights and gives again, but the game remains addicted, because this government, like the previous ones, persists in the idea that the resolution of financial sector problems is solved by more or less profound changes in architecture and supervisory models, and feeds the illusion that successive reforms will translate into more comprehensive and robust supervisory mechanisms. these amendments proposed by the government will probably not go wrong to the world, but will also not contribute to a substantial change in the intervention capacity of the supervisory authorities in the functioning of the financial system. These changes involve new costs, new bodies and a reorganization of supervisor interaction, without any guarantee that this will result in a tangible benefit. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In recent decades, it has advanced the theory that monetary policy should not be subordinated to political power. In the European Union, this thesis has resulted in the creation of largely independent central banks of democratically elected but totally dependent power bodies because they are captured by financial power centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u24	The European Central Bank and national central banks are therefore instruments of great capital at the service of the imposition of neoliberalism as the official doctrine of the European Union. The Government's proposal does not go so as to subordinate the Banco de Portugal to the political power of democratically elected bodies, despite the criticisms of central bankers around a supposed loss of independence due to the role assigned to the General Financial Inspection. The Government's proposal does not preclude the fact that, within the banking union, the Banco de Portugal has become a peripheral service of the European Central Bank and that the real supervisory power of the financial system, as well as banking resolution, is increasingly located in Frankfurt. In short, the Government's proposal makes a number of amendments to the national financial supervision system, some of which could even be considered positive, but does not advance, in any way, what for the CFP is essential in this area: the refusal of banking union and the release of its taxes, as well as the enforcement of public control of the bank and the financial system. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u25	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In March 2017, years ago, the CDS, in an interpellation here in Parliament, presented its criticisms—which were many—to the supervision, its proposals to improve it and also guarantees for its independence. Almost two and a half years later, at the end of the legislature, the government finally presents and discusses its proposal here. at that time, as today, our objectives and our position continue to be the same. As a critic, the way in which supervision has, consecutively, failed. It has failed in caution, has failed in effectiveness, has failed in transparency and has, above all, failed in the costs that its inefficiency has meaning for all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u28	At the time, in 2017, we presented proposals to create a true culture of requirement in supervision, so that supervision would be effective, rather than mere epistoll supervision, whose traces, in fact, we continue to see in numerous committees of inquiry. Some of these proposals have been put into practice to prevent the recurrence of bad practices with risk financial products. It is worth remembering that if, at the time, the government assured that it had solved all the problems with the injured BES, now it cannot say the same, when every day by them is confronted on the street, it is faced with all the problems it has promised to solve but that it has never fulfilled. in the same way, we proposed rigour in the supervision of the auditors. This problem is not solved today, too. Finally, we proposed a different model for the appointment of regulatory entities, particularly the Banco de Portugal, which would guarantee what the government and the PS seem to have a lot of difficulty in understanding, which is independence. We have proposed that it be the Government to propose, Parliament to hear and the President of the Republic to appoint.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u30	This proposal, which the Government here has presented, of two, one: or it falls short of these objectives or, expressly, contrary to them. The system they present is confused, it is diffuse and it leaves almost everything open, except that it makes the architecture much more complex, and that it, nowadays, is all less simple. What he wanted to pass unnoticed shows the temptation of the PS — which is absolutely constant — to influence, control and dominate; he offers no guarantee of independence from the Banco de Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u31	Of course, in the CDS, we have never been, nor will we be, in favour of a Banco de Portugal which is not responsible for anything, nor is it answerable to anyone. But we will never also be in favour of transforming Banco de Portugal into another government department, in which the PS can extend the long hand of the socialist family,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u32	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u33	...as you do on the state machine.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u34	That's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u35	With regard to the issue of IGF ( General Inspection of Finance ), it may not be a bad idea for the government, instead of worrying about the Banco de Portugal, to worry, and to make the IGF worry about the abuses that the tax administration is systematically practising about taxpayers. Perhaps that would justify a much more diligent action by the government! Last and last criticism: time. The Government has chosen to make this proposal when there is no time to discuss it calmly. When everyone wanted to debate in 2017 — and the CDS was the first party to present, but it is true that many others did so later, on several other occasions — the government always refused to say what it wanted. In March 2016, he invited personalities; in October 2017, he put forward a proposal for public consultation; and then this proposal sees the light of the day now, almost two years later. Mr Secretary of State, we are not going to do in a hurry what the government refused to do with serenity and certainly will not pass blank checks. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u36	Mr Inês Domingos, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The reform that the government is bringing us today is a wrong reform. It is wrong, because it duplicates institutions, which, in addition to adding new costs and complexity, dilutes existing competences in the supervisory sector, scatters the human and financial capital available for supervision and leaves serious doubts about who is effectively responsible for. The government, in the best socialist tradition, wants to create the swamp in supervision. But more serious: this proposal is wrong, because it is unusually attacking the independence of financial supervision. It attacks the independence of sectoral supervisors, because the National Council of Financial Supervisors goes far beyond the role of coordination and acquires new competences that interfere with the specific competences of sectoral supervisors. It attacks the independence of Banco de Portugal, because, by moving in the motivations for the exoneration of the governor, it enters into collision with the rules of the European Central Bank itself and obliges the Banco de Portugal, which already accounts to the Court of Auditors, to also be subject to the General Inspection of Finance. It attacks the functional independence of the Competition Authority when it makes its revenue completely unpredictable and dependent solely on the will of the Government each year. It is a way we reject, but it does not surprise us. After all, already in 2016, in this Chamber, the Minister of Finance said, and I quote : « It is not possible to assign independence status to the Banco de Portugal when the performance has to be done with the Ministry of Finance ». Mrs. Members, the result of the interference of the former Government of the Socialist Party in the financial sector is in sight of all. Even today, it is in the headlines of the newspapers, it is still in the committees of inquiry. It is an intolerable attack on independence and we will not compromise with it! in a reformist vision of the PSD, there are well-weighted changes to supervision. Amendments to strengthen coordination between supervisors and to empower the resolution function, which we have already proposed and in which we will insist again in the field of expertise. But we will always fight to preserve the independence of institutions, which are a fundamental pillar of our democracy. The reform that the Government brings is the finished example of how this government sees the country: a mere board where the government can move its pawns and dominate everything — nothing dissonant of the government, nothing outside the control of the government, nothing beyond the government and its family. And that is simply unacceptable. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u38	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State : We have heard recently the PSD and the CDS talk about the bill that wants to reform the national financial supervision system and both have shown some inability to change the current financial supervision system. The truth is that this inavailability means that the PSD and the CDS prefer to leave everything as it is, although all Portuguese know that the current financial supervision system has brought serious damage to the State, to the taxpayers. This debate is not new, we are not starting today the debate on financial supervision. Moreover, since the first commission of inquiry to the bank, which went to BPN, which began, indirectly, a debate on financial supervision and on the need to reform the model, the financial supervision system. We know that the financial crisis and consequently the banking crisis and the crisis of the Portuguese financial system have exposed weaknesses of Portuguese financial supervision. We all know supervisory failures that have cost taxpayers fortunes. These supervisory failures, in addition to having cost taxpayers fortunes, have created a set of injuries in the universe of the ex-BES and also in the universe of the ex-Banif. We know the overthrows of our financial system, the overthrows of banks that have been facilitated by oversight failures. Just look at parliamentary investigations at the bank, just look at the conclusions of the parliamentary investigations and just look at their recommendations to realize that there is an absolute need to reform the financial supervisory system. This is very obvious, certainly, for the overwhelming majority of Portuguese and is -it is also for the PS. We therefore believe that the Government has been doing well to present this bill in the Assembly of the Republic. It has done well, because it fulfils a measure which is included in the Government's programme and also contributes to a decisive step towards the consolidation and stabilization of the Portuguese financial system. This consolidation and stabilization is achieved with this bill, because this Government proposal for a new financial supervisory system has two main objectives: to strengthen coordination between the supervisory authorities and to increase the effectiveness of supervision. I would like to highlight some aspects which, in our view, are significant advances in national financial supervision. It will be composed of three supervisory bodies, which already exist — the Banco de Portugal, the CMVM and the Insurance and Pension Fund Authority ; it will begin to strengthen the National Council of Financial Supervisors, which will have a greater coordinating role in macroprudential supervision ; and will be created a resolution authority other than the Banco de Portugal. The National Council of Financial Supervisors, which currently only has advisory functions, becomes a macro-prudential authority, each supervisor is responsible for implementing macro-prudential measures in the respective sector. This evolution results from the perception that systemic risks are transversal to the financial system, which determines the strengthening of coordination of macro-prudential supervision. As I said recently, a resolution authority is created which is currently assigned to the Banco de Portugal. The creation of this resolution authority is a recommendation of the existing Community Directive, best known by BRRD, and allows to avoid conflicts of interest that exist between supervision and resolution, which are currently being brought together in the Banco de Portugal. In the case of BES and the New Bank, for example, there was a strong emphasis on the need to separate the supervisory resolution. The term of office of administrators is also 7 years and non-renewable, which constitutes greater independence for supervisors of the three supervisory entities. A very positive aspect is the fact that the Assembly of the Republic can start the process of exonerating the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, a faculty which is not allocated to the Assembly of the Republic and which has provoked a wide debate and reaction of all parties, with a view to the need to strengthen the role of the Assembly of the Republic in this field. This proposal by the Government attaches this role to the Assembly of the Republic, that it may initiate the exoneration of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. There are also significant changes to the code of conduct. There will be a period of disgust at entry, beginning of duties of Banco de Portugal's administrators, which will not be able to decide on entities with which they have been related in the three years prior to the start of the mandate, and also a period of disgust at departure of two years for Banco de Portugal's administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u40	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u41	I shall finish my speech, Mr President, by saying that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will call for the discharge of its committee, without a vote, of this bill, of the Government, challenging and calling upon all parliamentary groups involved in the discussion process in the field of expertise to enrich the Government's proposal, to meet a great challenge and a great appeal from the Portuguese: to reform the financial supervision system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u42	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u43	Mariana Mortágua, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u44	Mariana Mortágua. It was written here Joana, Mrs. Deputy. I just read.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u45	Mr President, taking into account the area in question, although it is Mariana Mortágua. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: If it is true that this proposal falls late in the Assembly of the Republic, it is no less true that reform is necessary and that it is difficult, because it moves with powers of very complex institutions, in which some of these institutions, such as the Banco de Portugal, are even marked by some historical arrogance, let us say so. The Block, already in time, had the opportunity to say that the ideal model, for us, is that of the two pillars: a behavioral supervisory pillar and a prudential supervisory pillar, transversal to all areas. This is also, as we know, the model advocated by Dr. Costa Pina, who was President of the Board of Auditors of the Banco de Portugal and responsible for the secret report that the Governor refuses to advertise. The counterpart of this model would be a radical reform of these institutions, with the opposition, more than certain, of Banco de Portugal. That was not the way the government was following, which brings us a hybrid model. Today, I would like to risk a madness that the right has not dared, which is to speak of the proposal in question, since I have also said what is the alternative that the Left Block has and has already had the opportunity to present. The first problem identified is the collaboration and exchange of information between supervisors, who are currently at different levels of power, with Banco de Portugal claiming for themselves a status of superiority and supremacy. The solution found in this proposal is the creation of a national financial supervision system, which coordinates the work of the different supervisors, which adds a resolution authority and the National Council of Financial Supervisors, which is, in addition to the coordination function, with macroprudential policy. We think this is a right choice. Macroprudential supervision must be transversal to all supervisors and what we need to ensure is that there are necessary resources and that it is clear who has the power to determine macroprudential supervision actions. The second problem — identified, in fact, by Banco de Portugal — is a conflict of interest that exists when Banco de Portugal takes place at the same time as supervisor and pseudo-acionist, coordinator of the resolution institution that coordinates banks that have been resolved. It makes sense that the Banco de Portugal maintains the decision-making powers of the banking resolution, but makes sense that it shares these powers with other supervisory institutions, so that we will not be ashamed again to authorize a bank resolution without the CMM knowing what was going on in the BES, for example. But the management of the banks in resolution must not be in Banco de Portugal, it must not be in Banco de Portugal and it must be assigned to the other institution, as this proposal brings us. Third point: to end the status of absolute exception enjoyed by Banco de Portugal, which derives from a confusion that the Banco de Portugal takes advantage of, which is its status and privilege as monetary authority and its status as bank supervisor. This difference of status is very clear when this proposal calls on the Banco de Portugal to contribute, like any other supervisor, to the Competition Authority. We can say that we agree or not with the supervisory contributions to competition, but what makes no sense is that the Banco de Portugal is the only supervisor who is excluded in a privileged way from this contribution. It is also clear when legal rules for the management of public money apply to Banco de Portugal. The Banco de Portugal is a public institution, it is not above scrutiny and has an obligation to comply with legal rules in the management of its budget and public money. We must begin to separate something, which is the independence of the supervisor, which is not confusing with the independence of the monetary entity, of something else, which is the inimputability, opacity and absence of scrutiny. in a democratic regime, no institution is above scrutiny, there are no places unremovable, nor for the Banco de Portugal! So we need to have clear rules for exemption. Incompetence, serious failure is reason for exoneration, yes! Conflict of interests is reason for exoneration, yes! The place of governor cannot be a golden dome to protect incompetent and people in conflict of interest. We can no longer hear Vítor Constancecio, in an inquiry committee, saying that he doesn't remember anything, when months later we know that he knew the credits to Berardo. We can no longer have Carlos Costa in front of Banco de Portugal, after successive committees of inquiry found serious failures and after the Governor himself passed through the BCP, at the time of the offshore, and by the Caixa, at the time of the most ruinous credits. That is why the credibility of the system is called into question. PS and PSD — I conclude, Mr President — are so concerned about independence from political power, but they are less concerned about transparency, competence and independence from supervisors.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u46	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u47	We well remember the role of Carlos Costa in keeping Ricardo Salgado in front of the BES, we well remember all the mistakes that have been made and we want clarity in this regime that we will certainly discuss in the specialty to be improved. [[Greetings from BE and P.S. Member of Ascension Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u48	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that it is necessary to improve the national financial supervision system to protect customers, savers, to have confidence in economic agents, to ensure stability and competitiveness in this financial system. We have serious problems in the governance model. The overcoming of these problems requires the reform of the model, although we also need to be aware that it is not only the institutions that make the supervisory model effective, it is people, and therefore we have to think about both things, always. There are clearly some positive aspects and some negative aspects in the Government's proposal. In the positive aspects, I stress the creation of the national board of financial supervisors because, in fact, there is a need for coordination of macro-prudential supervision and it cannot remain in the institution that we have today, which already exists — indeed, there is an institution with a similar name — but that does not work. The strengthening of this institution therefore seems fundamental to me. Another positive aspect is the mandate of seven years, not renewable, for the governor. I think it is much clearer that way, it has a mandate and we already know how long it will last. Within the negative aspects, I point out some, such as the appointment of vowels for the board of directors. Today, the model is better than what is in the bill. There is, in some ways, a consensus, because the current model is a proposal from the Governor, but which then requires approval by the Council of Ministers. Well, changing this model and limiting the role of the governor in the appointment of his vowels, of the people he is going to work with, seems to me to be clearly negative. Today, there must be a consensus between governor and, basically, government, because the government can always veto names and, therefore, they will never pass names that don't go through government, but let's say, it will pass...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u50	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u51	So, Mr President, I will conclude by saying the following: I am glad that the bill will go down to the Commission without a vote, because otherwise I would abstain, since I do not think that the Assembly of the Republic has only one month to deal with these diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u52	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u53	Like what I criticized in the Local Finance Act, the Assembly of the Republic must not be a place for stamping diplomas that are only the government and, of course, that the Assembly of the Republic could make very valid contributions, but it will not be in a position to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u54	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We move on to the second point, with the opinion of the Proposal for a Law No 194 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Altera a Lei Antidopagem no Sport. To open the debate, you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, John Paul Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u55	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government: The phenomenon of doping in sports, whether in professional context or high-performance, whether in context of amateur sports practice, is not only a direct attack on ethics and sports integrity as it also represents a public health problem, given the manifestly harmful effects that the use of doping substances has on the health of its consumers. Portugal is linked to the fight against doping in sport through two instruments of international law: the Convention against Doping, the Council of Europe, ratified on 17 March 1994, and the International Convention against Doping in Sport, UNESCO ( United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), most recently ratified on 30 April 2007. The Government now submits an amendment to Law No 38 / 2012, especially given the need to accommodate two recent Council of Europe resolutions : on the one hand, the recommendation on the operational independence of national anti-doping organisations and on the other hand the recommendation on ensuring the independence of hearing bodies and promoting fair judgements in anti-doping cases. There is also a need to comply with recommendations from the World Anti-Doping Agency ( AMA ). Therefore, I would very briefly say that the main measures relevant in this proposal for amendment to Law No 38/2012 have to do with the empowerment of the anti-doping agency of Portugal in relation to the current Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth, giving it administrative autonomy and being functioning directly with the Secretary-General of the Ministry with the competence of sport, and also with the creation of the disciplinary anti-doping school, independent entity of the ADoP ( Anti-Doping Authority of Portugal ), but to whom the ADoP will provide logistical support, which will centralize the hearing of the interested parties and the decision on the disciplinary penalties to be applied. There are also a number of minor amendments to the procedures to be taken into account, in particular by the national sports federations. I wanted to conclude this presentation by saying that this process deserved the participation and involvement of the main actors in the sector, several entities, who made contributions. Furthermore, these amendments are not only in line with the World Anti-Doping Code, which is precisely recognised by the World Anti-Doping Agency, as they deserve the Agency's agreement, and the Government also expects it to deserve the support and agreement of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the past, during the discussion on the same subject, the CFP presented reservations regarding proposals that adapted to our legislation rules defined in the World Anti-Doping Code. In 2015, when we also discuss this subject, we point out it again, in particular with regard to the biological passport and the system of location of the sports practitioner, whose assumptions we intend to be able to sacrifice the privacy, rights, freedoms and guarantees of sports practitioners. Today, as these issues are not being discussed in the amendments tabled by the Government, we believe it will be important to reiterate them until they remain in law. With regard to this proposal in particular, which introduces changes concerning entities acting or able to act in this area, in which there are changes in responsibilities and procedures, as the Secretary of State mentioned here, and where new structures are created, there are points on which it was important for the Government to deepen what it wants. in this proposal for a law—akin to what has happened with the proposal for a law that amends the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows—, also the IPDJ ( Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth ) is in some way « deleted », appearing only in the proposed additions, especially in the article on the Dopagem Analysis Laboratory ( LAD ). The Anti-Doping Disciplinary College is created, a new structure, which Mr. Secretary of State also referred to in the initial intervention, and which, in the preamble to the bill, says that it aims to « impartial hearing of the parties and decision on disciplinary procedures». The wording itself is clear, but it was important that the Government should deepen its choice of this new structure as regards the creation of this new entity in the context of the fight against doping. We know of the international instruments ratified by the Portuguese State against doping issues, but, as we have said on other occasions on sports-related matters, the production of legislation in the country must meet the great diversity that exists in the national territory between different modalities and often within the same modality. We will have the opportunity, in our specialty, to deepen this and other issues, even though the Assembly of the Republic may face constraints of time for discussion. But the CFP will be here to accompany the debate in the specialty and to contribute, understanding that this is also an issue which should extend the range of views consulted, in particular from the workshops themselves, which must also be involved. Of course, doping in sport deserves our concern and rejection, the implementation of measures that combat it is necessary, and the use of doping substances is in itself the antithesis of sport. in this bill, fines are aggravated, in particular in Article 50. the, which also raises doubts, even because the fight against doping cannot be seen only as a set of controls or its supervision. Educational and training components must be increasingly encouraged and extended.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u58	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u59	Even to conclude, Mr President, I would say that intervention in this area has to go far beyond laws, it is necessary to define educational and prevention policies that stimulate a healthy practice of physical and sports activity and that the role of sport is also valued, involving, in fact, the association movement, athletes and all other entities in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u60	Mr António Cardoso, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u61	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members : Portugal has a long history in the fight against doping in sport. Since long ago, our country has become aware of the fundamental importance of having an effective system of fighting doping in sports, in order to preserve the health of sports practitioners and sports truth. Only in the late 1960s did the sports movement become fully aware of the existence of this problem. The first legislation to be published in Portugal on anti-doping control was in 1979, although there are references to the 1970 legislation. Years later, through Dispatch No. 29 / 85, signed by the then Secretary of State for Sport, Dr. Júlio Miranda Calha, was formally established the first anti-doping laboratory in Portugal, whose competence was internationally recognized in 2001 as one of the most qualified doping analysis laboratories worldwide. However, in the last 10 years, the activity of the Anti-Doping Authority has lost quality and prestige. Aware of this reality, the Portuguese Government is making a great material and human effort to recover lost credibility and prestige. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the fight against doping in sport, the Portuguese Government is bound by the Convention against Doping, the Council of Europe, and the UNESCO International Convention against Doping in Sport. Thus, when submitting this Bill No 194 / XIII / 4. a, which amends the third Act No 38 / 2012, which approves the Anti-Doping Law in Sport, complies with the recommendations of the World Anti-Doping Agency. The main amendments under consideration aim to strengthen the operational independence of national anti-dopagem entities, with functional separation between the Laboratory and Anti-Dopagem Authority and, thus, a disciplinary anti-dopagem college will be established, which will centralize the hearing of interested parties and the decision on disciplinary penalties to be applied; a legal division will be established in the Anti-Dopagem Authority, which will centralize disciplinary proceedings, which will conduct its instruction and will refer to the disciplinary anti-dopagem college for decision; in turn, federations will be required to have regulatory provisions on combating doping. These measures aim to ensure the speed of processing and the transparency of counter-ordinative and disciplinary processes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my intervention as I began: sports activity must be developed in compliance with the principles of ethics, the defense of the sports spirit, the sport truth and the integral formation of all participants, adopting measures to prevent and punish anti-sport events. In view of the above, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group unequivocally supports this legislative initiative, which implements the good practices followed by international organizations, so that Portugal quickly recovers the prestige and credibility lost in the international anti-doping system, hoping to be accompanied by the other parliamentary groups. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u62	Mr Pedro Pimpão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Secretary of State : It says the saying « better late than ever» and the fact is that, two years after we have lost the accreditation of the Laboratory, we are discussing the legislation that also allows us to meet the recommendations of the World Anti-Doping Agency. It is a shame that, once again, we are doing so in late time in relation to the needs of the sports movement in Portugal. This is because according to the guidelines of the World Anti-Doping Agency, the lack of conformity of the national anti-doping system with international rules resulted in the repeal of the Laboratory for Doping Analysis and, in April 2016, the Laboratory saw its accreditation suspended by AMA, for a period of 6 months, due to the lack of technicians, appropriate equipment and autonomy of the Laboratory vis-à-vis the Anti-Doping Authority. For more than two years, the Minister of Education, who has guarded this area, and the Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, in several forums, during the discussions of the State budget, in hearings in the Commission, reported that the procedure was in motion, awaiting the withdrawal of the suspension at any time. They also reported as Mr António Cardoso said that a significant investment was being made in the Laboratory. The fact is that during this period of more than two years, a successive renewal of the periods of suspension of accreditation of the Laboratory by AMA was observed, making the samples of the checks carried out in Portugal to be sent to laboratories accredited in other countries, which represented a high cost, in parallel with the inherent maintenance of the Laboratory itself, under test regime. Despite the high expectations of the revocation of the suspension of accreditation, reinforced by VV statements. Ex., at the end of October, AMA converted the suspension referred to ultimately, withdrawing the accreditation from our Laboratory. The truth is that if we look at the past, even with the profound reformulation of the organization of the fight against doping in 2003, with the creation of AMA, Portugal has always achieved, in its sporting history—including in years of enormous difficulties—to maintain the standards required by this Agency, affirming itself as a credible interlocutor who fulfilled what was necessary to keep in full operation an indispensable institution in the fight against doping in Portugal, in the defense of sports practitioners and sports truth, and over the years has managed to farm significant respect in the international community. Therefore, allowing the accreditation of our Laboratory to be revoked represented a contempt for national sport and a step back in the fight against doping and claiming Portugal as one of the countries that sought to be at the forefront of this struggle. However, Mr Secretary of State, although late, we believe that this fight must unite us, as it has always been in the past. That is why we will be available to work in the field of expertise to improve the proposal which, today, is being discussed in plenary and also to add those that are the most valuables that are being discussed in the context of the revision of the World Code itself, which, as you know, will enter into force with the new revision in 2021. Even with all these years of delay, we are available to work for the accreditation of our Laboratory, because this is very important for Portuguese sport and the prestige we want to maintain internationally. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u64	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have started this legislature with a set of debates just about this Laboratory and the Anti-Doping Authority. At 12. the Commission and the Sport Working Group also started this legislation with a set of hearings to entities and debates between the parliamentary groups on the problems that then existed and the future that was coming. We have arrived at this moment — we are at the end of the Legislative Session and also at the end of the Parliament — and the Government is presenting a bill amending a set of rules and rules for the operation of this Authority and its relationship with the world of sport. It is true that it is late, it is true that time is little, from the point of view of our ability to work still during this Legislative Session, but obviously 12. the Commission, the Sport Working Group and all parliamentary groups will do their best to ensure that this bill also comes out reinforced by the Assembly of the Republic, until it was designed by this House, from the beginning of this legislature, but not only in previous legislatures, ensure that the Laboratory and the fight against doping and for sporting truth would have here, and recognized in this House a relevant role. We have a job I wouldn't say easy, but framed. We have the Doping Convention, of the Council of Europe, we have the UNESCO International Convention against Doping in Sport, we also have the World Anti-Doping Code, so there are three fundamental documents to guide us in this discussion. It is obvious that the proposals presented here by the Government deserve, firstly, and at this very first moment of debate, in general, some considerations. There is a proposal to create independence from IPDJ. It seems to us that, in the name of transparency, it is necessary to ensure that any entity responsible for the fight against doping has complete independence from the organs which also depend directly or indirectly on the government — that seems important to us. The different thing is to have a debate on autonomy. The debate on autonomy always presents in the narratives of the various political parties, the government and the various actors who discuss the world of sport, an institutional vision, which is a vision of the type of autonomy that we guarantee to the entities and institutions. But it is also important to discuss financial autonomy, autonomy to be able to ensure that work happens and that it is done, that these institutions have resources to do so. It seems to me that the main debate we can also have, in our specialty, is to ensure that, by giving this independence, we ensure that these authorities operate properly, so that they do not remain independent of the government, autonomous of the political power, but continue to depend on funding resources, guarantees, so that they themselves can do this work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u66	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u67	I will finish, Mr. President. The history of this Authority is a good history and therefore we must keep it, just as we need it, in the name of sport truth and ethics in sport. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u68	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u69	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The proposed law we are discussing today is essentially about transposing to our legal order good practices that are established by international organizations and, in this transposition, it is essentially organic and bureaucratic issues. We have nothing to do with, these issues have to be dealt with and, in our specialty, we can debate whether the way they are defined is, or not, the most appropriate. We have more doubts about bureaucratic issues than about organic issues, but that will be for the speciality debate. Now, we know that, in terms of combating doping, operational issues are more important than organic and bureaucratic issues. From an operational point of view, there is a need in Portugal to focus on what is the policy of combating doping. Therefore, what we would like to make clear today is that, having no objection to this bill, it is essential that the time which, from our point of view, has been lost in this Parliament should be recovered. Time has been lost in relation to our anti-doping laboratory that entered first into crisis and then saw its accreditation revoked — it is essential that we recover this resource — and also in what are positive policies to combat doping and promote sports truth which, of course, must be the first in a public policy that aims to reduce or even eliminate this type of practice. Therefore, and in summary, the CDS is available for discussion in the specialty of this bill, but above all, it is committed to a broader fight to doping and operational measures to enable it to be implemented. [[CDS-PP Applause]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u70	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. To close the debate, you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary for Youth and Sport, John Paul Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: To conclude this debate, I must say two things. The first is that, in fact, either Mrs Diana Ferreira or Mr. Members who spoke have finally acknowledged that this proposal for amendment to the law is to comply with international recommendations. There was also a lot of talk here—I confess that with some surprise, because one thing has nothing to do with another—the Dopagem Analysis Laboratory. In particular, Mr Pedro Pimpão, from the PSD, seems to have found that our Laboratory had been suspended in his accreditation also on account of some legislative amendments that had not been made. The honourable Member is well aware — much better than I am — that our Laboratory was suspended in 2016, essentially and basically due to lack of investment, that the previous government did not at the time in the Laboratory, in equipment and in human resources. There are even questions on which we could also talk, from the point of view of the management of the Laboratory itself, and very concretely of reports, with very, but very little precise information, which have been sent to the World Anti-Doping Agency. Understanding the difficult circumstances that the country has gone through at that time, I think that what should unite us all is this will, which also seemed to me to be from all parliamentary groups, to make these changes to comply with what are the international recommendations and then also to have our Doping Analysis Laboratory as soon as possible re-accredited. It is, moreover, expressed in a process which the World Anti-Doping Agency foresees that the Laboratory, after all investment in human resources and equipment, can be re-accredited as soon as possible. I am sure that, in the field of expertise, we will surely find consensus among all parliamentary groups. And, above all, I hope that we will still do so in this legislative session, as quickly as possible, on behalf of the fight against doping, which I must say now that it has never been suspended in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u72	Mr. Secretary of State, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u73	Despite the suspension of the Dopagem Analysis Laboratory, the fight against doping, I repeat, has never been suspended. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me just leave a greeting to the schools that have just entered the galleries, which, as Secretary of State for Youth, I always like to see. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The Bureau naturally joins in its greeting. Completed the general assessment of the Bill 194 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ), we turn to the general discussion of the Bill No 195 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the status of the former fighter. To present the bill, Mr. Minister for National Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u75	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen and good morning also to the youth present in the galleries. The status of the former fighter aims to be the recognition of the soldiers who fought with courage, loyalty, self-sacrifice and sacrifice in various operational theatres, carrying the colors of Portugal. But it is also fair to pay tribute to the families and the people closest to these combatants, who, as a result of the war, have seen their outlook on life changed and often deeply destructed, with consequences that still last. The bill on the status of the former fighter, which we present today, represents a symbolic and material recognition of the Portuguese State by the service provided by the military who fought in the Colonial War and also of those who, over the last decades, integrated the national forces highlighted in theatres of high danger. This recognition is a duty of the State, because it is the State that should express the gratitude of the Portuguese people. It is a formal recognition, much claimed by the former combatants, and it is therefore of the greatest justice that is approved by the Assembly of the Republic — and not only by the Government — and with the widest possible vote. The diploma presented here results from a long process of systematization and collection of contributions, from now on through the work that has been developed at the Advisory Council for Supporting the Former Fighters ( CCAAC ), of the Ministry of National Defence. This proposal was discussed in due course with representatives of all parliamentary groups by the Secretary of State for National Defence and with the Working Group of the Former Combatants and Deficient Armed Forces of the National Defence Commission of the Assembly of the Republic, thanking the spirit of dialogue and cooperation that was present in these discussions. in this context, support for the initiative and commitment to enable its approval was widely expressed because of the importance that we all recognize to the cause of the former combatants. But the status enshrined in this proposal does not only have a symbolic character, it brings very concrete measures. First, the card of the former fighter is created, which is a facilitating element in the relationship with the State, simplifying access to the benefits and support to which each individual is entitled. New instruments are being created, such as the plan to support former combatants in a homeless situation and the technical unit for former combatants, based on a permanent inter-ministerial dialogue, aimed at greater efficiency of services. The law also enshrines the plan of action to support the military disabled, which promotes health, quality of life and the autonomy of the military disabled, and which can now be deepened and extended. Finally, the statute consolidates in a single diploma the set of rights and benefits enshrined over time, with the advantage of clarifying and thus promoting knowledge of the citizens of the applicable legal regime, and which many still seem to be unknown. This status is therefore an important step in the dignity of the military condition and in the recognition of the enormous debt that the State has with all the military serving the country in front of the fighting. We hope that this diploma will have the support of this House and we are, as we have always been, open to dialogue in order to improve the proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u76	On behalf of the Socialist Party, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Diogo León.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u77	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is impossible to imagine a country without memory. It's been 45 years about the end of the Ultramar War. And if our culture leads us to honor the dead, even of the most sad, cruel or unjust wars of other times and regimes, the present and the future should lead us to consider, celebrate and honor the living. The former fighter assumes himself as the living memory of that past. And, as a living memory, it is not a museum artifact or a relic of martial facts. He is a citizen who claims national dignity and recognition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u79	And that is what the Government intends to enshrine, through this bill, by making the former fighter a title of honour and a pledge of social and economic rights, conquered over the decades of our democracy. This statute is intended, firstly, to the present 350 000 Portuguese people, who, in their youth, during the 60s and 70s of the 20th century, have only complied with the law and military duty, and have been forced to face the worst of the military sacrifices: the useless sacrifice, because they fought in an evil war, whose solution was never in the power of arms but, indeed, in the nails of April which closed them. It is also intended for the disabled of the Armed Forces, who served in the overseas region and who are the first victims of the war, recognizing this bill that the entire unique universe of the disabled of the Armed Forces may eventually be endowed with its own status, which recognizes its particular sacrifice and dignified its unique and exceptional condition. This statute is also intended to fully repair a historical error, including this proposal as former combatants of full right all ex-military service to Portugal from local recruitment in the former colonies, which, for decades, have been abandoned by the State and are just creditors of the same recognition and of the same benefits as the former Portuguese military. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, this diploma also includes, as former combatants, military and ex-military participants in national forces featured in missions with particular significance and risk, reflecting the idea that, for the future, our active military members know what they can and should count on in terms of recognition and law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the Government's presentation of this statute. It is a relevant step that aggregates and structures existing legislation and is also a strong sign of commitment and recognition for the relevance of our former combatants in Portuguese society. I shall conclude by recalling the working group of the National Defence Commission, which has accompanied these specific matters, where we can, with the invitation of the various parliamentary groups, extend the desirable consensus, focusing on dialogue with the League of Combatants, the Association of Armed Forces Deficients (ADFA) and other merit associations — whose representatives, I welcome, are here today — ensuring that, as far as the State is concerned, there is no lack of support, assistance and respect for the former combatants in serving Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u80	We turn to the PSD, for which Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The initiative we are discussing today, presented by the Government, aims to approve the status of the former combatants, recognizing the services they have provided to the country since the military campaigns that took place between 1961 and 1975, but also in later periods integrated into the national forces highlighted in the missions of the United Nations ( UN ), the Atlantic Alliance ( NATO ), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the European Union. It should be noted here that this recognition also includes ex-Militaries from the local recruitment in the former colonies. For the PSD, this recognition must be unequivocal and comprehensive, while not leaving the possibility of solving any situations that might arise here, so as to avoid the need for us to be moving again in the future. As the Government states, the PSD also considers that, in view of the services provided by all military in a position to be covered by this legislative initiative, the recognition of this status is a real duty of the homeland for all these men and women. Regardless of the historical or political assessments that we can make of the various military campaigns or missions in which these citizens participated, the fact is that they did so on behalf of the Portuguese State and in defense of the interests defined by whom they governed Portugal at every such time. The creation of this statute, from the point of view of the PSD Parliamentary Group, does not seek to legitimize any military campaign, but to recognize the effort and dedication of all these men and women who have defended the name of Portugal. This initiative enshrines some instruments already developed by the Ministry of National Defence and proposes the creation of some others with a view to "supporting the dignified aging" of the former combatants, taking into account their current needs. But, as has already been pointed out by the League of Combatants, it is important to move beyond mere intentions, not delaying decision-making in time and foreseeing the establishment of new rights in this plan. Thus, it seems clear that if this initiative is not being improved in the field of expertise, it is at risk of adding nothing concrete to what is already in place for the former combatants, by not providing for any real measures that reflect support and solidarity for these military personnel. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the PSD says here today that it remains fully available to continue working in the working group that has been specifically set up for this purpose, showing us, therefore, fully committed, to constructively, in the specialty, with the other forces that have parliamentary seats and with the Government, it is possible to find a statute for the former combatants as consensual as possible and to meet the aspirations of all the associations representing the universe of these military. It is for us, PSD, of course this statute cannot be an instrument that continues to generate controversy and controversy, but it must be a formula that allows us to gather all those who from it will benefit about something that is more than fair to be attributed to them by the Portuguese State. They deserve above all that we recognize to them everything they have right to for what they have given their lives in the name of the homeland and Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u82	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr João Rebelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u83	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, President of the League of Combatants, General Chito Rodrigues, and other leaders of the League of Combatants present here, Ms. and Mrs. Members: The status of the former fighter is a document that we consider to be positive. In abstract, therefore, it is something we defend. We would also like to recall in part the past that the CDS has in this matter. When the Minister of Defence, Paulo Portas advanced with legislation concerning former combatants. A lot of work was done at the time. I remember that the State files he had to define exactly the universe of the former fighters were still on paper. The computerization, research, search and systematic organization allowed to define the universe that would be applied to this law of the former combatants, proposed by the CDS in 2001 and approved by a vast majority here in Parliament. This law allowed hundreds of thousands of former combatants to count on how long they were fighting overseas for reform. And they also benefited from a supplement or pension supplement to add to a right there was. This law was amended in 2008 by the Socialist Government at the time, passing rights that were consecutive to alternative rights. That is, those who had already counted, as time for reform, the time spent in the Ultramar War, could not later be entitled to pension supplement. In addition, Mr. General Chito Rodrigues, in a speech he made on 11 November, this 2008 law, which amended the legislation in force in 2004, is considered by the former combatants as the « law of truce », because he came to withdraw a right to the former combatants, who did not understand that amendment. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members would also like to highlight our past in favour of the former combatants with the initiatives we have tabled — one that has recently been unanimously adopted — which leads us to want to be constructive in the discussion of this law and in the possible amendment. Mr Minister, we consider this proposal to be very small. It has great virtue, which is to systematize all existing legislation for the former combatants and the disabled of the Armed Forces. Some of these legislation is very old, going back to the period before 25 April, and many of the former fighters do not even know that they have certain rights, so this systematisation is positive. The existence of a card of the former combatants is also positive. But the first question I ask is: what new rights does this create? It may in fact facilitate access to the rights they already have, but they do not have virtually any new rights. Where do I think we should work, Minister? I would like to highlight the work of Mr Miranda Calha, as Chairman of the Working Group of the Former Fighters, and to say that this Working Group will have to look at this law, to which we will propose amendments. The various parties will do so, and I hope that the government will be available for this. There are a set of new rights in areas that, for us, are vital — and the various associations also talk about it — especially in health and pension matters. I think we should revisit what was in the legislation in force in 2004, on supplementary and supplementary pensions, and give greater coverage to former health fighters. We can analyze that. This proposal — that is very important, very important! — in relation to former combatants who are in a situation of great misery...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u84	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u85	I will finish, Mr. President. I have forgotten to make a point of order to the Bureau on this, but in my opinion the status of the combatants should have deserved more time. However, the time grid was accepted by all parties and we must submit to it. I therefore conclude by saying that we are available to improve the law and we hope that several proposals will be submitted and accepted by the Government. So, yes, there may be such a worthy consensus; if not, I am afraid that this law will not go into a comprehensive final vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u86	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The Government, with this bill, intends to give recognition and solidarity to all those who fought for Portugal in colonial wars and other external missions. It is known that the overwhelming majority of these former soldiers, now over 60 / 70 years old, were brutally taken out to their families by the salazarist regime and forced into an unjust and criminal colonial war that, for more than a decade, took place in African lands, causing unheard of suffering and thousands of deaths and mutilates on both sides. Much of these former combatants live today with miserable reforms, which in no way dignify their stock parks, aggravated, in many situations, by diseases and deficiencies encountered in the war. That recognition and solidarity must be legitimate. It is not clear that the Government wishes to place the participants in voluntary missions, at the service and maneuvers of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) and the European Union in the same status as former combatants, and some associations do not agree with this formulation either. Some proposals for the implementation of this statute appear to be positive, but today the government loses an opportunity not to go further. Indeed, they are very limited measures and they end up being rejected by various associations of ex-militaries. When, at first, there were conditions for building a more or less consensual proposal, it ended up not pleasing Greeks or trojans. Some positive measures seem to be the creation of the Single Defence Balcony, the national support network, the stress resource centre in the military context and the action plan to support the military disabled. Particularly important is the national support network, providing information and referral of cases of pathologies resulting from post-traumatic stress of war affecting the former military, involving even their families. The plan to support the military disabled with a view to improving their quality of life also deserves a positive note. On the other hand, the stress resource centre in the family context is not ambitious, and it should not be limited to collecting and analyzing information and developing studies on military stress. On the other hand, in the opinion of the Left Block, it would not be a good idea for this proposed statute to integrate the disabled from the Armed Forces. by the visas, the Government did not take into account the demands of the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies, which fights for its own status, the status of the military disabled, which safeguard the legal regimes of the disabled of the Armed Forces, a clear objective underlying another proposal of this association of creation of a magna letter of the military disabled. In short, this bill does not establish new rights and several of the measures envisaged, although positive, have little scope and are at risk of leading to more bureaucracy. The Left Block will be prepared, as a specialist, to contribute with proposals to improve this Government initiative. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u88	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State for National Defence : The first word of the CFP Parliamentary Group can only be to greet the League of Combatants, present here, and to do justice in this legislative process. The truth is that the proposal for a statute of the former combatants came from the League of Combatants. The Assembly of the Republic welcomed this idea, a working group was set up that was making efforts to build a legal diploma and some prospects for work with the Government were jointed. Unfortunately, in our view, the Government has rushed to present a legislative initiative, giving no room for this working group to complete its mission. More: in the hearings we promoted, the working group was clear, not only about the need for the compilation of legislation, but also about the need for the diploma to add something that would improve the living conditions of the former combatants. Unfortunately, this did not happen — and I will already go there — but this was the procedure adopted and which did not result, insofar as it was precipitated with a legislative initiative by the Government. However, Mr. President, Mr. Members, the CFP considers that the Assembly of the Republic, the Government, the Portuguese State, in honor to whom it fought on behalf of Portugal, should promote support and improvements in the living conditions of these men and women who have devoted their entire life or an important part of their life to serving our country. The diploma delivered to the Assembly of the Republic, without undermining some of the things that are enshrined there—changes the date of the Day of Combat, which causes controversy, creates the card of the fighter, the single counter, the national support network, plans and partnerships— also makes, in essence, a compilation of the rights, but is beyond what was expected. In fact, we ask what this diploma has brought back to the former combatants and, in our opinion, there is nothing in it that means an addition or an improvement of living conditions, of the socio-economic conditions of the former combatants. Systematize is good, of course, improving accessibility and information mechanisms is indeed a good addition, but in our view it is important to go further. Therefore, the availability of the PCP Parliamentary Group is in the sense that since the diploma goes down to the National Defence Commission, it promotes discussions around it to see what is possible to improve, in particular in one aspect that has already been mentioned here, the pension supplement, and in the revision of Law No. 3 / 2009, which is one of the major claims—and a fair claim—by the League of Fighters. That is the commitment we have made, in the defence and honour of the rights and legitimate expectations of our country's ex-combatants. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u90	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I said here that I have an affectionate connection to this matter, because my grandfather, who was a fighter in World War I, was the one who made the speeches at the commemorations of the Battle of La Lys in 1917, and this has something to do with what I'm going to say next, as you will see. The Government's proposal is to welcome, because it brings to the Assembly of the Republic the discussion on the dignity and valorization of the former combatants, who, having served the homeland, must deserve the respect and gratitude of the country. It is to welcome the creation of the card of the former fighter, an ancient claim of the associations representing the former fighters. However, he appealed to the need to, in the discussion in the field of specialty—and it was already realized that the diploma will go to the specialty— if he sets a time limit for the approval of the door which sets the card model, so as to prevent its implementation from being forgotten and that this good intention does not go away. I am also critical of the government's option to set the National Day of the Old Combat on 11 November, the date of the armistice that put an end to World War I, something which, as some former combatants' associations have signed with the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, seeks to change by decree the traditions that have existed in our country for decades. In my opinion, the consecration of three distinct dates should be considered: on 9 April, as a day to remember the fighters of the First World War, because they almost no longer exist, but there are the descendants, and they all know that on 9 April is the date of memory of these fighters; on 10 June, as a day to remember the fighters of the Colonial War; and on 11 November as the day of celebration of the armistice of the First World War. I am sure that, in the work of expertise that will be followed and the discussions between the parliamentary groups, it will be possible to come up with a solution that is of the greatest pleasure to all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u92	In order to express the closing of this item on the agenda, the floor of the Secretary of State for National Defence, Ana Santos Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the representatives of the League of Combatants, but also, very especially, the children who are in the galleries, to whom it is absolutely essential that we explain the history of the former fighters and what they did for Portugal, and in this sense, it is with great pleasure that I see them here, on this day of debate. The cause of the former combatants, as expressed by all the interventions, generates a broad consensus, and this leaves us very much looking forward to this work which follows for the discussion, in the specialty, of the status of the former combatants, because, despite this consensus, the truth is that, until today, its presentation has not been possible, and that is our intention. Our intention was to present a proposal to naturally be discussed in the context of the Assembly of the Republic, because it is in this House of Democracy that this recognition must be made, as widely as possible. For us, the enlargement of the universe that this diploma proposes to those who, from the 1990s, also defend Portugal and its colors through the national forces highlighted is what guarantees the continuity of the recognition of the Portuguese State to the work of all those who fight for Portugal. One of the major innovations of this status is precisely the card of the former fighter, which aims to have a proactive position in what are rights and benefits, which so well recognizes, in the context of debt of gratitude and solidarity that is in any way reflected in the systematization of rights. The opening to the status of the disabled of the Armed Forces, which is an ancient claim, is also a proposal resulting from this close relationship that the Government has maintained with the Armed Forces Deficiencies Association. We are therefore, as always, available to discuss what is the substance of the document and the broadest possible recognition, once again, in this House, of what is the status of the former fighter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u94	Mrs. Members, we move on to the next item on the agenda, the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 197 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Ensures the implementation in the domestic legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 2402, which establishes a general regime for ownership and establishes a specific regime for simple, transparent and standardized ownership. To begin the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law submitted by the Government strengthens the security of ownership operations. The promotion of ownership in terms of transparency and security is one of the pillars of the Union on the capital market. The promotion of financial instruments of this kind benefits the European economy and also the Portuguese economy. by converting loans into negotiable securities, banks transfer risk to investors who decide to take it. These operations make it possible to increase liquidity and free capital from banks, which can be used to provide more credit to companies. According to the European Commission, if the securitisation operations returned to pre-crisis levels, they would generate some EUR 150 billion of additional financing for the European economy. We need to do more to diversify the financing options of companies and we also want investors to benefit more from the single market, having access to marketable financial products and benefiting in full from Europe and its liquidity. A secure, transparent and standardized securitisation market enables you to manage the risks of the financial system in a balanced, prudent and learning manner from past mistakes. The new rules proposed by the Government respond to the errors of the financial crisis and, with regard to ownership, seek not to repeat these errors. We do not want to go back to the days of the opaque, complex and high-risk financial instruments. The new rules clearly differentiate simple, transparent and standardized titration products, the STS (simple, transparent and standardised) titration from other products that do not meet these criteria. A financing channel for companies and the economy will thus be restored without jeopardising financial stability, investor savings and without creating risks other than those perceived. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this bill implements a regulation of the European Union and also revises the national legislative framework with regard to ownership activities. The European Regulation simplifies and consolidates the regulation of this activity and introduces a new class of high quality securities. The new legal framework sets out minimum requirements and proportional due diligence requirements to ensure that investors are provided with the information necessary for a proper risk assessment. The new securitisation class is subject to requirements that prevent, for example, high-risk credits from being transferred without the knowledge of investors. The proposed law confers on national supervisors the powers to monitor the STS ownership and establishes a more demanding sanction framework, reinforcing the duties of the incumbents and the penalties for their non-compliance. This bill also reinforces the regulation of ownership activity, giving more powers to supervisors. This bill is necessary to ensure Portugal's alignment with European capital markets and to ensure that the ownership activity is done in a safe and transparent manner. A stronger ownership market brings real benefits to investment, to economic growth, to the economy, to job creation and to strengthen financial stability. We know that more investment is needed in the Portuguese economy and we know that our companies need more resources to grow and compete internationally. This is a fundamental proposal for the fulfilment of this plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u96	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries present here, to whom I comply: So that the speech is not so hermetic, let us start by seeing what the object of this bill is in fact. Non-productive loans are often credits with collection difficulties and often become uncollectible, having to be cancelled in the balance sheets of the institutions. This serves to make it clear that a high limit of non-productive credits in financial institutions is an obstacle to the granting of credit to economic operators. Special attention to the stability of the financial system requires that no risky or excessively risky loans are granted, as has happened in the past, for the institutions we now know better than ever — General Deposit Box, BES, Banif — in order to safeguard the financial system. What is the ownership of non-productive credits? Ownership is an operation in which the assigned process is divided into tranches, is classified according to its risk and generates the production of securities relative to those debts. This is seen and the Portuguese who hear us also understand the care they want. With these mechanisms, it is intended to be effective in supervision and due diligence in order to ensure the quality of the credits. It is also intended, with this measure, to safeguard investors so that they can base their investment option on the assessment of risks inherent in each of the products they invest in. As already mentioned by the Secretary of State, with this mechanism of the general regime for the ownership and specific regime, it is intended to improve the effectiveness of supervision. We also hope that the State, like to date, and Social Security, will continue to give up its credits, whether they are overdue or not, as provided for in the law, with regard to Social Security and contributions and, finally, the European Regulation and the mechanism for common evaluation procedures. This is important, it is certain, and because of this it did not deserve much opposition from the different representatives of the associations on the market. Mr Secretary of State, I would just like to ask you two questions, which are the following: what is the real increase of assurance to investors in relation to the legislation that already exists today? Will simplifying the debt-taking procedure sometimes not lead to the State, Social Security and Financial Agents, abdicating recovery, often losing part of the credits that are underlying their balances? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u98	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The proposed law we are discussing today aims to enable the implementation of Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 2402. This regulation is another example of how the European Union and its directory continue to react erraticly to the causes of the 2008 crisis. It is the usual flight forward, ignoring the root causes of the crisis and insisting on the same recipes. The ownership, i.e. an instrument created by bankers to clear their balance sheets, bringing together more or less doubtful credits, transformed into financial products, is at the root of the process of financing the economy and the speculative bubble that broke out in 2008. It was this neoliberal path that plunged Europe and the world into a social and economic crisis, whose impact still lies on people's economy and lives. It is not too much to say that the possibilities of a new crisis of capitalism are not far away. There is the reversal of the interest curve in the United States to demonstrate the dangers of new episodes of this structural crisis. In view of this, what does the European Union do ten years later? It will relaunch the securitisation market, as it was at the origin of the 2008 crisis. As much as the leaders of the European Union, of the great capital, continue to bury their heads in the sand, the financial products they now want to relaunch have never been simple and much less transparent, as suggested by the Government's regulation and proposal for a law. They are, as they have always been, highly-funded artisans who then ended up in crises that are endured by the same ones as ever. Relaunching the securitisation market is another step in the wrong direction. Neither Europe nor Portugal need more finance. Portugal needs more real economy, more employment and more development. As we voted against this regulation in the European Parliament, we will now vote against this bill. The way we stand for is that of public control over the financial system, to place it at the service of the economy, the development of the productive apparatus, which is not subject to the European Union's taxes and its neoliberal agenda, to which both the PS and the PS and the CDS submit themselves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u100	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It should be noted that the stabilization and strengthening of the robustness of the national financial sector has been one of the important priorities and objectives in this legislation with significant results. The quality of the assets of the national financial institutions has seen significant improvements and there has been a reduction in non-productive credit. The ownership activity is inserted in this strategy, allows to relieve bank balances in order to enable the increase of credit to the economy. However, the last financial crisis has also shown that the securitisation is not free of risks, especially with regard to the quality of the underlying claims. With this regulation and its implementation in the domestic legal order, it is intended to seek to revive the market for quality titration and to avoid repeated mistakes made in the past, particularly in the financial crisis. The Government has been reviewing the national legislative framework and implementing the Regulation which has already been applicable since January 2019, thus laying down minimum requirements for the general system of ownership and establishing a special system for simple, transparent and standardized ownership. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to highlight some changes to the national ownership regime: the extension of the concept of ownership; the designation of the CMVM as the competent authority for the supervision of securities sellers resulting from the securitisation; the designation of the Banco de Portugal as the competent authority for the verification of the conditions for the performance of the functions of sponsoring a commercial role programme guaranteed by assets; the adaptation of the sanction scheme to the duties provided for in the Regulation, in particular the maximum limit of fines, which has tripled, therefore, on account of the economic benefit; the cumulative forecast of the possibility of the application of ancillary sanctions; and a regime that requires disclosure of sentencing decisions is also established. It should therefore be noted that we are faced with a revision of the national credit ownership regime, with the aim of simplifying and simplifying it. Within this flexibility and simplification we highlight: the elimination of the requirement for the hiring of a depositary; the forecasting of the possibility of entities with a specific purpose of ownership hold temporary real estate in their assets; the replacement of the authorisation scheme for the establishment of funds for the holding of credits by the prior registration scheme in the CMM. I'm sorry, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have greater transparency, greater security, more efficiency and a more appropriate and effective sanctioning regime. These are the reasons why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group follows the Government's proposal and is fully available for work in the field, with a view to, where appropriate, being able, including, to establish some improvements in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u102	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u103	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members : Mr Secretary of State, if the titration were to return to pre-crisis levels, there would be a crisis. It is good not to forget the role that titration played in the 2007 / 2008 financial crisis, in which it was a financial risk dissemination factor in the markets, not only because the products were complex, and some were complex, and not just because there was no information, and there was information. We also forget that most mortgage products in the United States had ratings from rating agencies, which still have so much credibility in the markets today, that they guarantee that those securities had high quality products in there! Therefore, it was not just opacity, it was not just lack of information. There is a structural problem in how financial markets are organised. There is another problem associated with ownership that is not just risk dissemination, it is leverage that allows it, because what it does is to allow banks to grant credit, to withdraw the credit granted to continue granting credit from the balance sheet. This allows debt and leverage levels that may not be compatible with financial stability. What experience shows us is that, unlike all economic theory, economic manuals and the whole European cartilage, much of it is still expressed in this directive and in this bill, ownership does not make the market more efficient. The securitisation does not automatically diversify the risk. The securitisation does not guarantee that the credit that can be granted additionally is directed towards the productive economy, because it may well happen that banks give more credit but that credit is directed to speculative activities, part of which are fed by a securities market that comes precisely from the securitisation process. Today we know that in addition to these problems, which are macro-prudential, so let us say the stability of the financial system, there are other problems that come with the sale of these credit portfolios to « euro area funds ». There is a lot more that we have to do to regulate, supervise and ensure transparency of these funds that are buying the misdeeds that, behind them, have companies, have people. After all, there are people who have lost or are going to lose their homes and who suddenly are no longer able to deal with their bank and have to deal with any fund without any connection to national reality, without any connection to social reality, simply because it has been sold without guarantees of transparency, without guarantees of supervision. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the market needs to limit ownership, it needs to prevent new forms of ownership, it needs to reduce complexity. There is no need for more ownership, no need for a new securitisation market. I conclude by saying that it is not the eternal expansion of banks' balances that guarantees credit and economic growth. The credit is determined by your search and what guarantees this productive search...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u104	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u105	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, what guarantees this productive demand is good industrial policies, good job creation policies and good investment policies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u106	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: in this debate I would say that a balanced position on what we are discussing today is something between what the government has defended and what the parties who support this government have expressed. Therefore, we cannot be as optimistic as the Government has been, through the Secretary of State, because, indeed, we had to ignore everything that has happened in the world in recent years, to think that now, with the mere introduction of a European regulation and its transposition into national legal order, we have solved all the structural problems in terms of the market that are not only solved by a new regulation. Obviously, we also reject the diabolization logic of everything that concerns the market and the functioning of a market economy. We therefore believe that the introduction of new rules can be positive in order to achieve the objectives of this Regulation — but not only — from the very beginning in the creation of titles. It is essential that supervision function effectively, so that the creation of these securities does not serve to clean bank balance sheets and create a parallel reality in relation to the effective situation of banks and the economy. Next, the issue of transparency is important in the logic of combating information asymmetry in the marketing of these securities. Obviously, what comes to the national legal order, with the transposition of the regulation, is important both from the point of view of transparency and from the point of view of standardization. We believe that this bill, through what comes from the European Regulation, introduces improvements both from the point of view of supervision, creation, marketing and from the point of view of information to the market. But this cannot create the illusion that, from here on, like what happened in the past, it is possible to let this whole market run without what is essential for it to actually work, which is good regulation and good information equality in that market. That is why we will make this bill possible and we will not fail to try to make improvements, at the point of discussion in the specialty, but, above all, we reiterate here, in Parliament, the need for close monitoring of financial activity, so that what happened in the past does not happen again. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u108	To close this item on the agenda, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u109	Mr President, trying to answer the questions raised by all parliamentary groups, I would like to make it clear that, obviously, the issue of financing is fundamental to any economy, particularly for Portuguese. The STS Regulation lays down requirements for the determination, retention of risk by dealers, granting of credit and transparency applicable to all securitisations and also lays down conditions for a securitisation to be classified as « simple, transparent and secure ». Therefore, it intends to create a new title, subject to safeguards that did not exist before the financial crisis. However, the risk exists and does not disappear. The securitisation operations allow, precisely, that each risk-taking person, by means of a set of criteria that increase transparency and allow him to know exactly what risk he is taking, to make informed decisions. Then, of course, it will be up to the supervisors, who see their powers strengthened, to act in order to ensure that this is so, being the fulfilment of these characteristics verified throughout the lifetime of the title. What we propose also establishes a heavier sanctioning regime, a sanctioning regime which must be, and of course, deterrence from misleading practices or which call into question a correct risk assessment by market agents, investors, but also, of course, financial rating agencies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u110	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this concludes the discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 197 / XIII / 4. the fifth item on the agenda is the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 198 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the requirements for access to the profession of the professional activity of seafarers, to define the criteria for equivalence with other professionals in the sea sector and to define the rules for the nationality of crew members on board ships or vessels subject to the regime of the professional activity of seafarers. In order to initiate the debate on behalf of the Government, Ms. Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The maritime profession is of strategic importance for the development of the sea economy in Portugal, where we currently have about 50 000 maritime registries, performing functions on Portuguese flag boats and other flags all over the globe. However, this number is clearly insufficient. The modernisation and sustainability of the maritime sector depend on the availability of properly qualified seafarers and on the ability to attract an adequate number of new workers, creating the conditions for professional achievement. The framework governing the professional activity of seafarers in Portugal dates back to 2001 and is no longer in line with the challenge. A number of amendments have been adopted to the International Maritime Organization ( IMO ) Convention, with regard to the minimum level of training, and also at the level of the European Union, with a view to promoting security. The review of the legal framework proposed by the Government was built by listening to the sectors involved and related public and private entities. This proposal has two essential objectives. Firstly, it aims to promote maritime work, mainly with national citizens, and in this sense establishes a minimum percentage of Portuguese seafarers, which also covers the citizens of the CPLP countries (the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries). A reduction in the number of maritime categories is called for in order to simplify access and career progression, while categories are created to meet international requirements. The mobility of workers between sectors — merchant marine, local traffic and fishing — is promoted, through a strong commitment to modular training and the harmonization of programmatic content. The recognition of professional qualifications, where appropriate, of seafarers from other countries to fill gaps is facilitated and seafarers on board national fishing vessels are certified under the STCW-F Convention ( Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Fishing Vessel Personnel ). Secondly, it is committed to the dematerialization of procedures, in order to simplify and digitize the Maritime Administration, so that it can provide rapid and quality services. Certificates and the maritime identification document are issued in electronic format, in accordance with the rules laid down by the IMO, and an extended transition period of 10 years is established to minimize disturbances with the entry into force of the new rules. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the review of the legal framework proposed by the Government is aimed at updating the rules applicable to all seafarers. Appropriate working conditions, as well as properly qualified seafarers, contribute to the competitiveness and reduction of maritime accidents and pollution incidents. The new legal framework helps to revitalize the maritime sector and increase recruitment opportunities, ensuring a smooth and adequate response from the Maritime Administration, regardless of the part of the world where our maritimes are. This is what we put to the consideration of VV. Ex. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u112	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u113	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of the Sea, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In recent decades, there has been a significant decrease in the number of maritime workers, a reduction to which many wrong political choices of the various governments that have directed the country will not be alienated. Despite this, the sea continues to represent a huge source of resources and employment for many Portuguese and Portuguese. Indeed, the legal regime that currently regulates the work of seafarers is part of a basic legislation which has already been quite old and manifestly outdated. Technological developments and consequent changes in the functional content of workers, the needs of demanding training, increasingly linking workers and businesses to international partners, and finally the need for legislative harmonisation at international level impose an evolution. We have been warning the government of this need since the beginning of this legislature. For the Left Block, any legislative changes applied to the sector should be seen as an opportunity for the overall development of the country and for the dynamisation of the economy, but should also, and above all, provide an opportunity to reaffirm respect for workers' rights. In addition to this essential guarantee of respect for and promotion of labour rights, what is required for today is the promotion and agility of access to the maritime profession, scrupulously safeguarding the quality of initial and continuing training, to ensure the improvement of safety standards for new and former professionals. However, in the annex to this request for legislative authorisation submitted by the Government, we do not see the indispensable guarantees of raising these standards, a requirement for today. And the circumstances in which the diploma here arises, already at the end of the legislature, cannot justify condescendence in its assessment. I am referring only to a few examples of what is not right: there is a need to consider in the diploma greater training requirements for new seafarers before they can embark; there is a lack of compulsory or equivalent minimum education; there is a lack of clarification as to the requirements of those who can certify the physical and psychic fitness of seafarers; there is a need to stipulate that, if the sea has no category, they cannot embark. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, there is too much flexibility in the workplace, despite what the Minister has just said, and there is more permissiveness in terms of training requirements for such demanding and risky professions. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are sufficient reasons why the Left Block should not be referred to the diploma which is subject to this legislative proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u114	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u115	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of the Sea, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This diploma has been awaited and much desired by the sector, being an important step in the reform of the RIM ( Maritime Registration Regulation ). In fact, we cannot fail to note that at the end of Parliament this proposal ends up being discussed today, in general and in specialty, not allowing us, in essence, to hold the hearings that would be necessary for us to have a more substantiated opinion and even a reflection of the opinion that the sector has on this proposal for legislative authorisation. However, and even though we are not discussing the annex, there are a number of matters that we intend to refer to, because they raise doubts. Basically, precisely because we will not be able to make this discussion, we would like to leave two alerts, two questions, in particular with regard to the training and validation of physical fitness. As far as training is concerned, it is obviously an essential tool not only for the safety of workers and vessels, but also for the best exercise of the profession, since generally more qualification brings more efficiency and greater profitability. However, the annex to the bill does not provide for a transitional provision, in particular for obtaining basic security certification, which requires 100 hours of training and which becomes compulsory, and well. The question is that, depending on the date of entry into force, there may be no time for many seafarers to obtain this certification and there is no transitional provision for certificates issued under the STCW-F Convention, which are mandatory for seafarers working on fishing vessels of more than 24 m. With regard to the validation of the physical fitness of seafarers, our questions deal with the divergence and non-uniformity in terms of being a medical professional at work or a doctor at the National Health Service or even, in the case of the STWC Convention ( Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers ), if you allow doctors with appropriate training or experience. Who testifies to this experience? Therefore, we believe that there should be greater uniformization with respect to those who have competence for the validation of physical and psychic skills. Up to a question of safety on both sides, this harmonization of procedures was necessary. Finally, I would like to note only one warning that has been made to us by the services, in the technical note that has been sent, which is the absence of reference to the consultation made to the National Data Protection Commission. In view of the dematerialization of the processes, it was important that this consultation be made. I don't know if it's a late reference or if they could give us some information on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u116	You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr John Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u117	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 21st Government Programme refers to the maritime areas under national jurisdiction as one of the main assets for the future of the country, stressing the effective presence in our sea as a determinant for the affirmation and defence of national interest, with a stake in the traditionally known economic activities but also in the search for new areas of excellence and the creation of opportunities, which lead to increased exports, the conversion of declining areas into emerging maritime industries and the creation of qualified employment. The initiative now under discussion, for many years expected by the sector, authorizes the Government to regulate access to the professional activity of seafarers, defining the criteria of equivalence with other professionals, as well as the provisions on nationality, in recognition of its importance, proposing to clarify and harmonise its professional activity, considering the international context,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u118	...in a simplification challenge without making it easier. Updating the existing legal framework, in respect of international conventions, STCW and STCW-F, with emphasis on the transposition of the Manila Amendments, setting the minimum level of training, promoting the protection of the marine environment, the security of property and human life at sea. With the dematerialization of procedures regarding the registration, the exercise of professional activity, in conjunction with the National System of Vessels and Maritimes, with greater proximity and agility in the relationship of the citizen with the administration, safeguard the presenceal care, stimulating the deconcentration, through the Balcão do Mar, providing for the possibility of terminals of access in the central and local bodies of the Maritime Authority, but also in autonomous regions, in the autrquias, or even in shops and spaces of the citizen. With a restructuring of categories, it promotes mobility, flexibility and transition between functional areas, according to professional needs and interests, regulating training, certification and revalidation, the creation and approval of courses, the evaluation process and the recognition of certificates issued by other States, in accordance with the provisions of the International Maritime Organization. It regulates the single maritime document, which demonstrates its identification, containing different information about its activity, for the purposes of the International Labour Organisation Conventions, and allows the decentralization of competences for the establishment of security lotion and certification of vessels to autonomous regions and to the International Register of Madeira Ships. thus, the government implements another measure within the Simplex of the Sea, updating and simplifying the Maritime Registration Regulation, in an appreciation and recognition of the importance of seafarers to the sea economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u119	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The approval of the new regime of the professional activity of seafarers is a need that has long been identified and that was an important claim of the Portuguese seafarers and their representative organisations. This indisputable need to update a regime which dates back to 2001 has long been a challenge for many of the serious problems facing Portuguese seafarers, which the CFP, on several occasions, has raised in this House, in particular with regard to the international recognition of Portuguese seafarers. It is necessary to introduce into domestic law the amendments that have been made in the aforementioned STCW and STCW-F conventions which have been in force for years now in the international framework. This is a legislative process that sins late and with which no more time should be wasted. But, Madam Minister, in this case, it is necessary to do quickly and well — quickly and well! This diploma also provides for the coordination with the National Maritime Registry System, the SNEM, opening up a path that should, in fact, be strengthened and which can contribute to new and more appropriate answers to the problems currently facing the workers, from the outset in the fisheries sector. by updating the professional categories of seafarers, when dealing with the issue of harmonisation and modernization of this set of categories, we cannot fail to emphasize the fundamental need to have good sense and openness to dialogue in the approach to the realization of these measures to find the most appropriate solutions. And concerns have arisen regarding the current categories and the question of their elimination, as is the case, in particular, with regard to the countermaster or the fishing grounds. But in this diploma presented by the Government there are two fundamental problems that we cannot but emphasise: on the one hand, the problem of the transition of seafarers who are in certain professional categories which are expected to be extinct, when a sort of automation for the transition that allows, at the very least, a placement in the category below the current one. We cannot agree that this kind of mechanism of automatic de-promotion of seafarers is being decreed due to the extinction of its current category. On the other hand, and particularly serious, it is the introduction, with the draft diploma presented by the Government, of the figure of « seafarer practicing», in an unacceptable way, of degradation, precariousness, the creation of a category with a period of validity during which the requirement of certification is dispensed in practice. The question is as follows: whether seafarers are intended to be certified professionals or not. Now, there are exceptions that, in practice, can become a rule and establish an indefinite regime of precariousness and disqualification, it is something that does not help the future of the sector in our country. The problem is there is not a lack of seafarers, there are low wages and bad working conditions that expel seafarers to other professions or even to other countries. In conclusion, Mr President, we propose two amendments to the diploma, already in the legislative authorization: one which establishes that the exercise of functions by a seaman requires, in all cases, the proper certification, and, on the other hand, withdraw that standard which points to automatic depromotion for the category below the current one. It is in this sense that we place these contributions from the CFP to the debate on this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u121	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u122	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys : First of all, I must say that this process is late. The Government could, in time and by allowing greater intervention by the Assembly of the Republic, have submitted this legislative authorization, and thus have allowed the Assembly of the Republic, in particular in detail, to seek to hear the competent authorities for that purpose, so as to have a structured position on the matter. That is why I must say, in a different way, that the diploma establishes — and the government has already been successful in this situation and not only in the area of the sea but in other areas, in a kind of deception, in a achievement — in the preamble, its importance, ensuring that the Portuguese seamen will prevail. Well, that's not true and it has to be said. It can be sold to seafarers in this way, it can be sold to the media, it can be propagated as the Government understands, but an unforgettable fact is that, in accordance with European law in the national legal system, it is not possible to establish such a imposition. However, the Government boasts that the preambular nature of the legislation is either the right to enter into force itself or the law itself, creating an illusion that what is underlying this authorization is a founding purpose to ensure that Portuguese seafarers have almost a right that prevails over others. That's not true and it's important to emphasize. I must say that there are positive points and there are negative points. One of the positive points, unlike what has been highlighted here, is the question of practitioners. And why is that point positive? Because we have a very significant shortage of labour,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u123	Pay better wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u124	...the profession is no longer attractive, unable to respond to people's desires. And, therefore, it is necessary to allow someone who can cultivate an interest in the profession to perform it for a period which is temporarily circumscribed, and then, if he so understands, to make such training.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u125	And they have better wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u126	On the other hand, we believe that it is also positive to reduce the number of categories, not being less the circumstance that the PCP Member pointed out, which is of the greatest importance, that it is to know that there can be an automatic dispromotion. That doesn't make sense! It makes sense not to neglect this because it is an important warning to ensure that a regime does not apply that puts people in a situation worse than that in which they were merely because of the absence of the legal forecast resulting therefrom. That, therefore, is something that the government needs to correct. Basically, we are in favour of making changes from this point of view, but we believe that there are solutions here that may not be sufficiently weighted,... [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u128	... and that the Government does not want to present the diploma late, on the one hand, and nor do it understand the proposals of the parliamentary groups because there has been no time for a fertile debate on the subject, on the other. We will not vote unfavourably. There are positive aspects, as I have already had occasion to emphasize, and we hope that the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u130	I shall finish, Mr President, with your permission. I said that there are negative aspects that need to be corrected and that our abstention is exactly to signal these aspects, which we hope the government will have the responsibility to change. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u131	You have the floor, for the end of the debate, Mrs. Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your speeches. I would like to point out that this diploma, this proposed law and the authorized decree were the subject of interaction, over two and a half years, with all the entities in the sector and with all the trade union associations representative of the sector, and in fact we chose to have all the time available to really discuss and prepare the diploma, which had several versions. The version that was sent was precisely the one that resulted from these interactions and this is evident in the version sent to the Assembly of the Republic, last April. I would also like to say that in this degree training is far superior to the current one, it is at the level of best European and international practices and in strict compliance with what are the recommendations of the International Maritime Organization, IMO. I would also like to stress, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, which is regulated in Article 10 ( 3 ). which are the doctors who have this category and this training, according to the Order of Doctors, and, lastly, will be the National Health Service. I would also like to say that in the transition of seafarers, in the matter of automation, this automation takes effect at the end of 10 years, i.e. there is only one low category if, at the end of 10 years, the seafarer concerned has not had the training available to him to ascend to that category. Those who do not have it at the end of 10 years alone will fall into category if they do not acquire it. However, I would like to tell you that this transition is already facilitated and is not a problem for vessels above 24 m. And why? Because above 24 m seafarers already have this certification, they already have STWC certification. So there is no problem. On the other hand, there is no situation of lack of certification, only in the practitioners who are still acquiring it. We therefore believe that this diploma, as you are, agrees with the concerns of you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u133	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u134	Mr President, with your permission, I shall conclude. I would like to say that this diploma, as far as the National Data Protection Commission is concerned, gives the fulfilment of the National Boat and Maritime System, which has already been subject to...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u135	Thank you very much, Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u136	... and that, of course, will be subject again, when the decree-law authorized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u137	It's not a normal practice. Members stand up after asking questions to the government. We are not now putting in place a new practice. Please, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u138	Mr President, I would say that it is not a normal practice either. Ministers refuse to reply to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. So it was my way of washing up my protest...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u139	Sir, please sit down.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u140	...by Mrs. Minister refusing to listen to my speech. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u141	Thank you very much. Please sit down. You're already sitting down, we can go on. In today's agenda, Act No 191 / XIII / 4 is followed. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between the years 1981 and 1985 and the Draft Resolution No 2185 / XIII / 4. a ( President of RA ) — Consecrates on 17 June as National Day in Memory of the Victims of the Forest Fires, but without time for discussion. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u142	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Draft Resolution Nos 2191 / XIII / 4. a ( President of the HR ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Second Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank and 2188 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — The situation of Portuguese-speaking readers in foreign universities, which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u143	Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 189 presences to which 11 are added by the Members. Deputies Amadeu Soares Alberaria, Ana Oliveira, Carlos Peixoto, Clara Marques Mendes, Duarte Pacheco and Teresa Morais ( PSD ), Fernando Rocha Andrade and Joaquim Barreto ( PS ), José Moura Soeiro ( BE ), Cecilia Meireles ( CDS-PP ) and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, perfezing 200 deputies. Let's start by voting vote No 842 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PAR, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Greens and PAN ) — Despite the death of Agustina Bessa-Luís, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u144	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Members and Members of the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death of Agustina Bessa-Luís, a major name of Portuguese literature. Born in 1922, with a literary career started in 1948, Augustine Bessa-Luís had a long and extraordinary journey, with a work that includes fiction, theatre, essays and even child literature, always around « (... ) a Romanesque universe of incomparable wealth», as well identified the jury who awarded him the Camões Prize in 2004. In addition to the Camões Prize, Agustina Bessa-Luís was distinguished with some of the most important literary prizes, that stand out the Eça de Queiros Prize, in 1954, the D. Dinis Prize, in 1980, the Portuguese PrizeClub of Novelística, in 1981, the Grand Prix of Romance and Novela, in 1983, the Prize of the Critics of the Portuguese Association of Literary Critics, in 1992, the Medal of Cultural Mérito, in 1993, the Latin Union Prize of Romanian Literature, in 1997, or the Eduardo Lourenço Prize, in 2015. Agustina Bessa-Luís was thanked on 9 April 1981 by the President of the Republic António Ramalho Eanes with the rank of Grand Officer of the Military Order of Sant'Iago da Espada and on 26 January 2006 by President Jorge Sampaio with the degree of Great Cruz of the same order. She was also decorated as Officer of the Order of Arts and Letters by the French Ministry of Culture. No one like Augustine Bessa Luís described with such genius, mystery and inconformity a portrait, a space or a time. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Augustine Bessa-Luís, addressing his most sincere condolences to relatives and friends."
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on vote No 840 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PAN and signed by PS and PS Members ) — Disclaimer of the victims of the 1989 Tiananmen massacre, which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u146	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « As a result of the death of the former general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party, Hu Yaobang, unanimously regarded as a reformer with the intention of promoting pronounced internal political reforms, several thousand students concentrated in Tiananmen, calling for a process of greater political openness, at a time when poverty plagued most of the Chinese territory and in which corrupt practices of the party elite were often known. over the course of weeks, hundreds of thousands of people have joined the students in Tiananmen, having the protests spread by other geographic points. In response to an increasingly widespread protest, the Chinese leaders decided to declare martial law, which led to the intervention of the People's Army, which was corporated on the night of June 3-4, 1989 in the repression of the military, who fired at the demonstrators in conjunction with the occupation of Tiananmen with tanks. The number of people killed continues to be a taboo, since, after 30 years, the actual number of victims is not known, which will vary between a few hundred or a dozen thousand dead. Emotion and mourning were suppressed by the Chinese Government and so far the victims, direct and indirect, are censored and persecuted. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its sorrow for the victims of the 1989 Tiananmen massacre, thus preserving its memory as an essential element in the defense of the fundamental values of humanity".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, Os Verdes, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the vote against the CFP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to Vote No 843 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Despite the victims of the Tiananmen massacre, which will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u148	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last June 4th, the 30th was marked. the anniversary of the massacre in Tiananmen Square, in Beijing, where hundreds of people, in their majority university students, lost their lives because they manifested themselves in protest against the Chinese communist regime and democracy, opposing the lack of transparency, demanding the implementation of political reforms, challenging corruption and its extremely serious effects in the relationship between citizens and the state, refusing the use of violence and repression as forms of political action and denouncing the structural economic weaknesses of that country. The remarkable persistence of those students was the target of a violent and impious response by the People's Liberation Army, which indiscriminately massacred many of the students who integrate the pro-democracy protest movement and aggravated the repression against all those who participated in that movement. Although the exact number of people who lost their lives on that day is not known, and following the persecution initiated by the Chinese regime, it is estimated that they were much more than those who were officially recognized by the regime. by pointing out the third decade of the Tiananmen massacre, you can never forget the life of all those who have lost it by profiling the values of democracy and freedom and renewing our collective political consciousness, so that the new generations know that freedom and democracy are values that are renewed and built every day. The Assembly of the Republic thus signed 30. the anniversary of Tiananmen's massacre, renewing the imperative to keep his memory alive and expresses his sorrow for all those who lost their lives on June 4, 1989, in Tiananmen Square".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, Os Verdes, PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the vote against the CFP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to three votes, we will keep a minute's silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on vote No 841 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD Members ) — Greetings by the International Day of the Child. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote of the application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, for 30 days without a vote, of the Proposal for a Law No 190 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — It creates and regulates the functioning of the National Financial Supervision System. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then vote on the Bill No 194 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Altera a Lei Antidopagem no Sport. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill we just voted down to 12. the Commission. We now proceed to the vote on the request by the PS, which calls for Law No 195 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the status of the former fighter shall be lowered to the National Defence Commission for 30 days without a vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 197 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Ensures the implementation in the domestic legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 2402, which establishes a general regime for ownership and establishes a specific regime for simple, transparent and standardized ownership. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall move on to the general vote on the Proposal for a Law No 198 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the requirements for access to the profession of the professional activity of seafarers, to define the criteria for equivalence with other professionals in the sea sector and to define the rules for the nationality of crew members on board ships or vessels subject to the regime of the professional activity of seafarers. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We are now voting on a proposal for an amendment tabled by the CFP under Article 2. the proposal for a law which had previously been voted on. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall make the joint vote, in the speciality and overall end, of the Proposal for a Law No 198 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ). [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the BE and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall then, in general, vote on the Proposal for a Law No 191 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1981 and 1985. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of the CDS-PP.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We will vote on draft resolution No 2185 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Consecrates on June 17 as National Day in Memory of the Victims of Forest Fires. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u150	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u151	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u152	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that, on my own behalf and on behalf of Mrs Fatima Ramos, Ana Oliveira and Conceição Bessa Ruão, we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u153	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Teresa Morais, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u154	Mr President, I would like to inform you that, on my behalf, I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u155	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall continue and vote, in general, now, on draft resolution No 1844 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends the end of the concession to Fertagus of the operation of the railway service in the North-South Axis and its integration into the CP suburban transport service. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 1855 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens — Integration of the Lisbon-Setúbal railway service into the CP after the end of the concession of this service to Fertagus in 2019. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of the NAP.]] We will then vote on draft resolution No 2048 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Protection of activities carried out by sports federations. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing by, because we are voting. We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 1631 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends the urgent implementation and implementation of a technological renewal at the Regional Centre of RTP-Medeira. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u156	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u157	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u158	Mr President, I just wanted to announce a vote on this abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u159	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1422 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the protection of citizens who acquire property in the event of judicial insolvency of companies and individual businessmen who operate in the area of civil construction or economic failure of the person responsible for repairing defects in buildings. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of PS Ricardo Bexiga and abstains from PS, BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 2155 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government declare the state of emergency climate and commit itself to necessary and firm actions to achieve carbon neutrality, for which a point-to-point vote has been requested. We shall vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We shall vote on point 5. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] The points approved above are down to 11. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 2160 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the declaration of the state of urgency. At the request of the PSD, we shall proceed with the point-to-point vote. We shall vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against PS.]] We shall then vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] The approved points are down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u160	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u161	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u162	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote on the vote on these last two diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u163	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall continue with the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 175 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — authorises the Government to approve a legal regime for the exercise of armed private security activity on board ships flying Portuguese flag and crossing high-risk areas of piracy. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u164	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u165	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u166	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the CFP will make a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u167	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Several projects were now removed from the first script, so we passed on to the general vote of Bill No. 153 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Amends the Statute of Members by making the Rules of exclusivity of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the BE and the abstention of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We now generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, on the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statutory of Members) on draft Law No 141 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Members, 150 / XIII / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political positions and high public positions and control of unjustified capital increases, 152 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of the Holders of Political Charges and High Public Charges, 153 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Amends the Statute of Members by making the system of exclusivity of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic, 218 / XIII / 1. a ( PSD ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March and 226 / XIII / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthens transparency in the exercise of political and high public positions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstains from BE and the Member of PS Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u168	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u169	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u170	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that on this vote and on which I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Turning to page 16 of the vote script, we also generally vote on the replacement text, submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which approves the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions on draft Law No 142 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and Public High Charges ( 8 ). the amendment to Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ), 150 / XIII / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political positions and high public positions and control of unjustified capital increases, 152 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of the Holders of Political Charges and High Public Charges, 157 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions, 160 / XIII / 1. a ( BE ) — Fight unjustified enrichment, 219 / XIII / 1. a ( PSD ) — No amendment to the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges, approved by Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August 220 / XIII / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ( Public Control of the Richness of Political Chargeholders ), 221 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Unjustified enrichment ( Thirty-fifth amendment to the Penal Code approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ) and 226 / XIII / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthens transparency in the exercise of political and high public positions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstains from BE and PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u172	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u173	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u174	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, on these last two votes, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u175	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u176	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u177	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u178	Mr President, it was to inform the Bureau that I will also make a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u179	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u180	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u181	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u182	Mr President, I believe the order of the script has been amended. It intended under Article 8. paragraph 3 of the Statute of Deputies states that, with regard to the text replacing the status of holders of political positions and high public positions, I do not intend to participate in any of the votes relating to that replacement text. This decision is based on the Statute of Members. This is a diploma in which, according to publicly disclosed positions, the content of the diploma would alter my legal situation in a criminal procedure in which I am accused. Although that is not my understanding of the content of the rules in the vote, however, for reasons of conscience, in accordance with the Statute of Members, I do not intend to participate in that vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u183	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now turn to page 21 of the vote script, to the vote, in general, of the replacement text, submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which approves the transparency rules applicable to private entities which make legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a register of transparency of the representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic on draft Law Nos 225 / XIII / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( lobbying ), 734 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Approves the system of professional mediation activity in the representation of interests, 735 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Approves the registration regime of private entities representing interests and 1053 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — lobbying regulations. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PSD Member Margarida Balsairo Lopes, votes against BE, the PCP, the Greens, the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PSS Member Isabel Moreira and the PSD and PAN abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u184	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u185	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u186	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u187	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u188	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u189	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u190	Mr President, it is to announce that on these three draft transparency package laws, I will present three autonomous explanations of vote, one on each.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u191	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Bacelar of Vasconcelos asked me for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u192	Mr President, it is only to inform us that, with regard to this vote, all the previous votes relating to the package and, if any, which still takes place, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u193	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u195	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u196	Mr President, it is for the same purpose to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ask me to speak again to Mrs Inês Domingos. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u198	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will make a written statement of vote after this session.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u199	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. A number of requests were made for the full vote in the speciality of articles contained in the replacement texts submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions. Thus, on the text of substitution, submitted by the Commission on the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), the following requirements were submitted: by the PS, relating to Articles 20. o, 21. o, 26. o is 27. o -A; by the PCP, relating to Articles 20. o is 27. o -A; and by the CDS-PP, relating to articles 20. o is 27. o -A. On the replacement text submitted by the Commission, which approves the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, the following requirements were submitted: by the PSD, relating to Article 16. o by Mr Nsc. and by some EB members, relating to Article 25. the ( transitional standard ) ; by the PS, relating to Articles 13. o, 15. o, 16. o, 17. o, 18. o, 20. o and 21. ; by the PCP, relating to Articles 19. o, 20. o and 21. ; by the CDS-PP, relating to Articles 9. o, 10. o, 16. o, 17. o, 18. o and 20. the ; and for BE, relating to Articles 6. o, 9. it's 16. o. On the replacement text submitted by the Commission, which adopts the transparency rules applicable to private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a register of transparency of the representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic, a request was made by the CDS-PP concerning Article 5. o. These requests are voted on together. Let's vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] As it was combined, intervention times were assigned for discussion of all the rules avocados. As you know, we have a supplementary script for this vote, but before that we have the debate. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to lawyers relating to the Statute of Members, which are the first to be voted on, we prefer to make autonomous interventions. I just want to note that what we want with lawyers is, on the one hand, the clarification that the entity with which declarations and reporting obligations will be made does not necessarily have to be identified in this legislative act, if this is a factor that does not affect the regular approval of these standards, so it is a mere clarification of text and identification of the entity. I would also like to note two changes in substance. There is an amendment to ensure the replacement of our original proposal, which we consider to be the most balanced way of ensuring the exercise of functions of a parliamentary mandate with the exercise of other activities, in particular by extending the inhibitions to the provision of services to civil or commercial companies that develop advocacy activities when they concern litigation against or in favour of the State or any public entity, assuming an incompatibility here which corresponds to what seems to us to be a sense of public opinion, a sense of the legal community, an increasingly consensual sense between us and that is best expressed in this version that we advocate here. I also note a revision of Article 27. in relation to the proposals which we ourselves have made but in which we feel most appropriate, in view of the constitutional framework for the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic, which should be the work of the future parliamentary committee on transparency and the Statute of Members to further refine the powers of this committee more precisely and not to establish, independently, an ethics committee, as resulted from our initial proposal, also seeking to signal a wider consensus with the other parliamentary groups, which have expressed some reservations to this initial proposal and, therefore, we have deleted some of the proposals already voted on in this direction. For now, Mr President, these are the points.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u201	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We consider this an important process, to the extent that it is justified to densify, to make some aspects more rigorous and transparent, both related to the Statute of Members and to the regime of the exercise of functions of the holders of political positions and high public positions and their reporting obligations. We believe, however, that the importance of this process should not be undermined by the danger of giving in to demagogy and populisms who always seek to negrate political activity and make a presumption of crime about political activity. We believe that we should not give in to these pressures in this legislative process. We want to say, however, that this balance has not always been achieved, and there are, as far as we are concerned, proposals which have been presented here and which are beyond all reasonable, and which are in fact yielding to these populisms. With regard to this process, there is a proposal that we consider particularly serious, that of the so-called legalisation of lobbying activity, because, in fact, there is no problem of transparency in the parliamentary legislative process. The parliamentary legislative process is a transparent process, contrary to what happens to the government legislative process. In the parliamentary legislative process, the institutions pronounce themselves publicly. We have many examples, including still-going legislative processes, in which both public entities, private entities, or non-profit private entities, or even companies, have been able to address the Assembly of the Republic, be heard in parliamentary committees and working groups and have their views published in writing. There are, therefore, mechanisms for democratic participation provided for in the Constitution, as provided for in the law, in the practice of the Assembly of the Republic which make the existence of rules that regulate the transparency of the parliamentary legislative process perfectly unnecessary. What is here is a pressure from communications agencies and large law firms to be able to present and provide another highly paid service, which is to lobby with the sovereign bodies, in particular with the Assembly of the Republic, at the service of some opinion campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u203	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u204	On the other hand, there is a total absurdity, which is the obligation of the entities to register transparency when there are entities that have constitutional rights to participate. It makes no sense for a trade union centre to have to register for transparency in the Assembly of the Republic to exercise its constitutional rights of participation in the drafting of labour legislation!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u206	It's a total nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u208	Mr. President and Mr. Members, during this process, we criticized the creation of such an entity of transparency in the sense of criticisms that have been formulated by the Constitutional Court, which do not only have to do with the problem of space, also have to do with the discharacterization of the Constitutional Court, degrading the supreme constitutional court for the exercise of administrative functions in relation to declarations of income and heritage. We also draw attention to the criticism made by the Ombudsman on the damage to the powers of the Public Prosecutor. Today, statements of income and wealth are monitored by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The interposition of an administrative entity in the medium would obviously affect these powers, because they would not be exercised competitively and the Public Prosecutor would intervene only in the case of participation by that entity. Therefore, from our point of view, this entity is not only unnecessary as an inconvenience. We also criticized the imposition of codes of conduct by public authorities. That private entities have codes of conduct for their members is with them, political parties certainly have them, but the public entity can only demand from its members what the law requires and not what goes beyond the law. There are aspects that we consider to be positive, Mr President, as the fact that we are turning to the initial proposal on impediments to companies of lawyers. We believe that if he was going the wrong way and though he is corrected in time—we hope he is. We believe that there are aspects of detail that are positive in relation to the declarative obligations of incomes of wealth and interests and that it is positive that there is a heavy tax on unjustified enrichment. That was not our solution, we found that without inverting the burden of proof it was possible to criminalize falsehood or omission in the declarations of income and heritage, that is, unwarranted enrichment, but we believe that, despite all this, the adoption of a penalizing solution, although in tax office, is a positive step, which we welcome. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u209	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is already a long legislative process, which is three years old, and seeks to respond to the legitimate concerns of the Portuguese. Unfortunately, the CDS has repeatedly alerted to the risks of the path that is being traced. Since the beginning of the CDS said it was against the functionalization of politics, which was against the fact that only public officials or partisans had access to political activity. This is all the more patent in the Statute of Members when it is prohibited that anyone who works for the financial system may be a Member,... [[PCP protests.]] ...and also in relation to lawyers. It is nevertheless peculiar that, despite the inclusion of this ban, what some parties want is that there is a possibility of suspension of this participation while Members are present. That is, it's a simulation of that same prohibition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u212	We also do not believe that it is possible for a parliamentary committee on transparency to function as a police officer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u214	The PS may well now drop the ethics committee, but the truth is that the intention is there and we do not accept that parties are watching and controlling the exercise of the mandate of other Members of the other parties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u215	For us, this is a principle that calls into question the functioning and conviviality that must exist in this House. With regard to the new transparency regime, the CDS cannot stop being shocked. at a time when the Portuguese question about the scandal of family appointments, what we see is an initiative that diminishes the requirement for family members themselves, only becoming impediments when we are talking about first-degree relatives, ascendants or descendants. It is less than there is today and therefore we cannot accept this norm and we advocate it. We also advocate a CDS initiative which concerns the registration of tenders and which, during this process, has been reversed in order to make it difficult to control that supply register. For the CDS, offers worth more than €150 — as is the case in the European Union in particular — should not be owned by the holder of political office. We also do not accept that, through the regulation of hospitality, we seek to interfere with pending judicial proceedings. That is why we will be very strict. What we understand is that only public invitations from public authorities to political office holders are acceptable. The CDS wants more transparency. We do not accept that we limit public scrutiny on declarations, as is the case, and do not accept an entity of transparency which, as has already been warned, will have no means, question and decharacterise the Constitutional Court and will conflict with the competences of the Public Prosecutor. It is another entity to pretend that the problem of transparency of the political system is being resolved. It is not so and the CDS, as it is evident, advocates these rules, because it disagrees with the path that is being traced. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u216	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, in this first speech, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to refer to two lawyers from our Parliamentary Group and to a lawyer from the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group. First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group requires that the plenary of the article which allows higher education as a paid activity — I stress, as a paid activity — be an exception to the rule of exclusivity of the exercise of high public office. It is an exceptional treatment, in our view, that is unfair, because it creates a totally unjustified privilege. The question is: Why is there a university professor who exercises a high public office able to continue to receive his salary as a university teacher and does not apply to any other profession? There's no reason for that to be so. We defend that this accumulation can happen, but only in the case of teaching is it happen free of charge, so it is a good thing. That is the purpose of the proposal we bring back to the plenary. Second, the Left Block proposed, in its initial proposal, that all bids worth more than €150 must be delivered to entities where the public high office holder performs functions and that they become the property of those entities. This final reference fell into the work of the Commission. We do not comply with this, because we understand that all of this is willing to give out the window what seems to be forbidden by the door. Finally, we want to mention the importance and political significance of the Socialist Party's manifest retreat in terms of incompatibilities between the mandate of a Member of Parliament and the exercise of liberal professions, in particular the lawyer. What was being prepared to happen with the text that had been agreed between PS and PSD in the Commission was truly scandalous because it would allow an unacceptable promiscuity in the exercise of legislative function. I am glad that there was a social cry, there was a popular cry against this proposal, and I am glad that, hearing this cry, the Socialist Party withdrew, because this is how we are in a much better situation than the one that was preparing to exist. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u218	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the PSD, we believe it is always useful to work for greater transparency in political activity. In the amendments to the Statute of Members, progress has been made, but there have also been concessions to populism and fundamentalism. Anyone who wants politicians to be all party officials will be happy. For the PSD, who wants the best to serve the people, there are too many impediments to too many professional classes. When it was possible to reach consensus, we worked on the conviction that political agreements, like any other one, involved concession and commitment capacity. We even put forward some proposals because the PS told us it agreed. In some situations, quickly came to the public for not saying. If anyone believes it's weird, see what the government's been doing to the country. This PS says everything and its opposite, promises and "dispromises" with the same ease. The plenum we make today aims to make it clear that we never wanted to decriminalize or allow future situations such as payment to travel rulers to the European football team. [[PS protests.]] There must be limits, ethical and legal, for the reception by politicians of gifts and advantages. For the PSD, holders of political and high-level positions must not be able to receive from private companies or interests offered or hospitality worth more than € 150.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u220	And the PSD doesn't vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u221	in a fundamental matter like this, there must be clear criteria and objectives that remove any interpretative uncertainties from the courts. There are other proposals on this issue, but they are neither objective nor clear. At the end of the vote, there will be those who really want transparency...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u223	So, what if the PSD doesn't vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u224	...who even wants the separation between public interest and private interests, who I would like, after all, to continue the same. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u225	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u226	Mr Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS brought the discussion of legitimate representation of interests to plenary for the first time in Portugal. That, for us, is the real focus of transparency, where really transparency must be based. And why? Because what is created is just this: an obligation for transparency in the contact between private entities and public entities, both in the legislative process and in the decision-making process. Basically, what does this do? What is done with the legitimate representation of interests? We know who we're talking to, what we're talking about and when we're talking about. That's all this is about here. It is therefore possible to make known to citizens all stages of the legislative process and decision-making process. And also in the Government, Mr António Filipe, because that is precisely the focus and that is why he should have voted in favour of this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u228	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u229	Too bad it wasn't possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u230	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u231	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is unfortunate that it has not been possible to approve that entities representing legitimate interests of third parties are obliged to reveal their three largest clients. We therefore asked the parties to consider the inclusion of this proposal again. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u232	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, and concluding the presentation of the amendments, but not forgetting the nature of the work done and the objectives achieved by it, it is unfortunate that, in the final line, rather than listening to and reading what is written in the proposals which, for more than three years, we have discussed, some parliamentary groups have not resisted trying to do what we should have all avoided, which was, precisely, rather than having a discussion on the proposals we want for the future, producing outrageous gossips of parliamentary work, as they have done without any dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is absolutely clear — I must say it and underline it — that, at all times of the discussion in the speciality on the rule that they now attribute as potentially creating the anathema of wanting to resolve pending judicial proceedings, never one of the honourable Members. Members who used the floor placed, at least, the possibility of being what was on the table. None of the opinions received by any entity underlined this possibility, even as a glimpse of what was being done. And in order to ensure that any doubt that could exist at this same point would be removed, we ourselves have presented a standard that leaves absolutely unequivocal that this intention did not exist, that this intention did not exist at any time! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, appealing to the dignity of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, who have not used it when they used the word, let us be serious about the parliamentary work that we have done, respond and be aware of what they have said, 'anathemicizing' those who do not deserve to be anathematicized, knowing perfectly well, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! — that this was never on the table and that they had the opportunity to say and did not say so, precisely because this intention did not exist! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's a serious matter, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also what makes parliamentary activity, effort and work that has been developed here. We disagree with many of these things, we have different views, but the work we are presenting today results from an attempt to substantially improve the framework for the performance of public functions and public positions, from the point of view of the lobby, in which not everyone follows these initiatives, but clearly reinforces the transparency and the ability of citizens to vote, to the matter where the incompatibilities and impediments are strengthened in relation to matters which are not the choice of certain professions because there is a whim, but only because there are certain activities which, by their nature, because of what we know of the parliamentary work that we do, indeed, generate sufficient doubt in order to prejudice the prestige of the institutions. It is precisely because we have had three, four — even we have lost account — committees of inquiry on banking activity which do not seem disproportionate to us to be introducing into the law an inhibition of the simultaneous exercise of the parliamentary mandate with the exercise of functions in the financial sector, and also always seeking something that has been patented in all the proposals of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group : proportionality. This is because proportionality means recognizing that there are also human beings behind the exercise of public functions, human beings who have realities that obviously cannot be harmed and that cannot be benefited either. For this same reason, also in the financial sector, caution is given to the situation of those who have this as their profession and who can perform it and continue to do so, because it is different to start activity in the financial sector when exercising a representation position than to continue to exercise the profession in which it has always been throughout life. in this process, which goes long, in this process which, I remember, was triggered at the initiative of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, which proposed the Parliamentary Commission for Transparency, which proposed, in all these matters that we are discussing today, proposals that effectively density and improve the quality of the legislation we have, there is a clear purpose of all: a permanent need to update those that are the conditions for the exercise of functions and public positions. We have always been present for this debate in the past, we will continue to be and hope that the final result will be balanced and that it will last for many years, until the next time it is necessary to improve the quality of democracy. We'll be there too! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u234	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true and known—and it was enough to see a few layers of newspapers to clean up—that this is a subject given to many eccentricities and populist attempts to win debates. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u236	We don't get into this championship. For example, the CDS is tearing down the clothes by saying that whether lawyers, in particular, or those who are in a social body of a financial entity are not harmed, lives well with the current legislation that says they have an exception regime in the legislation. Because, for example, someone who has a bookstore cannot even sell a paper cast to the State if he is a member or married to a Member, but, however, a lawyer can do business with millions, through his lawyer office, and this does not shock the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u237	All right! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u238	That's not true! You know it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u239	We realize, therefore, that this is a populism of shellfish, because what it proposes is, exactly, to attack the advances in the impediments that we now bring here. That's what we don't accept!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u240	That's more wasteful!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u241	The CDS has also tried to create an anathema about the transparency entity and I believe that this is repudiating. First of all, because it was the CDS — we have already understood — that it has created itself in such persecution for Members or politicians, because for any surveillance or supervision there is a police force, and until now there would be a parliamentary committee which would be the police of the Members. Now, once again, populism to hide reality. A transparency entity not only reinforces the Constitutional Court, as it is within the constitutional body which already has the supervisory functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u242	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u243	So we are not inventing new assignments to the Constitutional Court, we are giving operational capacity to fulfill what you already do. And now, because they know the proposal of the Left Block, keeping the Public Prosecutor involved in this process, and therefore not withdrawing any competence from those already provided for by the Public Prosecutor's Office today. I did not want to finish this speech, Mr President, without saying that the extremely wrong step we will take here is to try now, to cover up a new economic activity to please some sectors, to create a suspicion about the activities of the Assembly of the Republic. That's what we don't accept! from our point of view, no one gives lessons of transparency to the work that the Assembly of the Republic has.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u244	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u245	I will finish, Mr. President. We have already said that — in our parliamentary group this is the case and we believe that this is the case for all — there is no one at the door of the Assembly of the Republic without meeting with parliamentary groups. Question : Why do you have to hire someone to come and open the door of the Assembly of the Republic? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u246	Mr. Unregistered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u247	Mr President, thank you for giving me the tolerance that you have given to the parliamentary groups. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave a few quick notes. First note: I made an appeal so that, in the transitional standard, the bodies should have to approve the code of conduct within 120 days. This is very important because if this is not approved, a body may not approve the code of conduct and all Article 16. the, which has to do with offers of hospitality, is no longer effective. Second note: I voted against the lobby why? The CDS referred to the issue of representation of interests and well, but it forgot to talk about the proposals that were rejected, but it did not talk about it. The proposal was rejected so that those representing interests should declare their main customers, as was another proposal, which was also rejected, in which it was attached to a legislative piece all the entities that interfered with this piece of legislation. Therefore, the diploma that has been approved unfortunately gives these entities rights — to lobbyists, in particular — but as far as duties are concerned very few and does not increase transparency at all, and I am therefore very sorry that it has been approved. On the issue of transparency, it is a contradiction, let us say so, to defend here two things that are contradictory.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u248	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u249	I conclude now, Mr President. One of them is to extend the scope of the registration of assets and interests. The other is not to strengthen in human resources an entity that has precisely that function.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u250	With no further inscriptions, we will move on to the supplementary script and the replacement text, submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, on the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ). Let us begin with the special vote on the proposal tabled by the PS amending Article 20. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] I wonder whether the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 20. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. the replacement text is damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u251	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u252	So let's vote for her. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and with abstentions from the PSD and PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall now vote on the proposal tabled by the CDS-PP amending Article 20. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u253	Mr President, I request only one second to confirm a doubt. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u254	Have you confirmed what you need to confirm?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u255	We are in a position to proceed, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u256	We shall then vote on the proposal presented by the CDS-PP to amend Article 20. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall vote for the article itself under Law No 7 / 93... [[Pause.]] The special vote on the proposal submitted by the PS is followed by an amendment to Article 21. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u257	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u258	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u259	Mr President, there has been an agreement between all the banks, but I think it is important that this is understood: we will not vote on the replacement texts in this supplementary script, giving the votes that have been taken in the Commission. There was consensus among all the banks to do so because otherwise we would have to break down all the numbers of each article and that would be an endless vote, to repeat what has already been done in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u260	We shall then vote on the proposal tabled by the PS, as amended by Article 21. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall then vote on the proposal tabled by the CDS-PP amending Article 21. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. The Left Block requests that paragraphs 6 and 8 be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u261	Mr President, I request the floor to request the separate vote of paragraph 6 ( g ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u262	Mr President, there is a time for such requests to be made, which is not in full vote. The other requests were made before the votes started. We shall then vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 21 (6) ( g ) is deleted. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u263	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u264	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u265	Mr President, it is to leave two notes which may be useful for the rest of the work. First note, as this is a speciality vote, we would have to do the point-by-point vote. Therefore, we assume that, when there is no request, it can be made in this sense and that, when autonomy is needed, it takes place. A second note with regard to point ( c), I believe that it could be considered to be damaged since a different wording for point ( c) had just been voted on in relation to the proposed amendment of the PS. I therefore believe that the vote on Article 21 ( c). It's damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u266	Mr President, sometimes to simplify we are complicated. Let's try to avoid complications. We shall therefore vote on the proposal presented by the CDS-PP, in the part in which it deletes Article 21 ( 6 ( g ). the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u267	I would like to ask the Bureau to record that the PSD vote is in favour of the item ( g ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u268	Mr President, we have recorded that point 6 ( g) of the proposed amendment tabled by the CDS-PP was rejected with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS. I'm asking the ladies. Members to be careful, because the time is already ahead and the votes are taking place very little quickly, let us say so. We shall now vote on the proposal for an amendment by the CDS-PP on the remaining points of Article 21 ( 6 ). the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u269	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u270	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u271	Mr President, it is only to make a point: strictly speaking, it is the elimination of the points which are rejected, not the points because in relation to them, we are taking up the indexary vote made in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u272	Mr President, at the end of the day we will take the indexary votes. It is not worth repeating this every time there is a vote. We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP amending Article 21 ( 8 ). the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for an amendment to Article 26. the Act No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions from the PS, BE and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to delete Article 27. -A of Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u273	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u274	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u275	Mr President, with regard to the next vote, I request that paragraph 1(k) and (l) be voted separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u276	Mr President, these requests are not being voted on. The gentlemen. Members should have asked before because they create a problem of operation in the Bureau and in the whole of the Assembly of the Republic. We shall then vote separately on point ( k) of the proposed amendment submitted by the PS of Article 27. -A of Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statute of Members ), as set out in Article 1. that of the replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, and abstentions from the PAN and the Member of PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] Let us now vote on point (l) of the same amendment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes were rejected, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions against the PAN and the Member of PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the remaining points of the same amendment. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] With regard to this text, we shall now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the remaining indexary votes in the special session of the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We move on to the replacement text, presented by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which approves the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions. We shall begin by voting on a proposal tabled by BE amending Article 6. o [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u277	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u278	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u279	Mr President, with regard to the next vote on Article 9. the proposal to amend the CDS-PP, we request the autonomous vote of paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u280	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u281	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u282	Mr President, we also call for the empowerment of paragraph 11.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u283	The separate vote of paragraph 11 had already been requested by the CFP. The novelty is a request above the time of the PS Parliamentary Group. Let us therefore vote on Article 9 ( 3 ). the proposed amendment submitted by the CDS-PP. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the PAN and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall vote on Article 9 ( 11 ). the proposed amendment submitted by the CDS-PP. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, BE, PCP and The Greens, with votes in favour of the CDS-PP and with abstentions of the NAP, of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and of the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall vote on the remaining issues of Article 9. the proposed amendment submitted by the CDS-PP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, and abstentions from non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall vote on a proposal for an amendment tabled by the BE of Article 9. that of the replacement text. [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on a proposal for an amendment tabled by the CDS-PP of Article 10. that of the replacement text. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall vote on a proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS of Article 13. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS of Article 15. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PSD of Article 16. that of the replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions from the PCP, the Greens and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] Therefore, the proposed amendment submitted by the PS of Article 16. the replacement text is damaged, as is the proposed amendment submitted by the CDS-PP of the same article. The proposal for an amendment submitted by the BE of Article 16 is followed. that of the replacement text.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u284	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u285	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u286	Mr President, therefore, the proposed amendment to the Article 16 CDS-PP. it has several standards and therefore is not harmed, contrary to what was stated here. You have to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u287	So the PS proposal is damaged, but the CDS-PP proposal will be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u288	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u289	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u290	Mr President, the PSD proposal referred to paragraph 6, which was the same number as the PS proposal. Therefore, in this sense, he considers himself to be harmed. The BE and CDS-PP proposals have other provisions, so perhaps it would have been better to vote one at a time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u291	Mr President, we shall vote as you are in the script, because there are complicated simplifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u292	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u293	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u294	Mr President, there are rules adopted in the PSD proposal, in particular the limit of €150, which are also in all of the proposals that follow in the script. So, from my point of view, any rule that is the same...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u295	Mr President, I am very grateful for your contribution, but the best thing is to continue to follow the script, but we will never stop with the various contributions of the various Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u296	But, Mr President, how are you going to vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u297	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u298	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u299	Mr President, this proposal from the CDS-PP actually affects several issues of the article. I believe that with the approval of the PSD proposal for paragraph 6, paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 are only affected by the CDS-PP proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u300	Sir, let's follow the script. What has been harmed is seen in terms of final writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u301	Mr President, following the script in this case does not serve because the script only refers to the joint article and paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the CDS-PP proposal are contradictory in relation to the PSD proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u302	Mr President, we are going to follow the script because it is more practical and, in the final writing, everything that has been damaged will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u303	Mr President, if these numbers are not considered to be damaged, there will be a problem in the final writing, because we are going to have contradictory things.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u304	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u305	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u306	Mr President, as I have noted recently, this is a special vote. We must actually vote number by number if there is anyone who does not accept voting in block. So far it's been possible. I believe that in this article it is even necessary to vote number one because, in fact, only paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 and the rest of the CDS-PP and the Left Block proposals are to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u307	So, are we going to vote now on the CDS-PP proposal or the PS proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u308	Mr. President, the PS proposal is damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u309	So let's vote for the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u310	Mr President, by order of vote and following the script, the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP in relation to Article 16 numbers is followed. which they were not harmed. We will therefore vote and then the BE vote will soon see if it should be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u311	Let us then vote on the numbers of Article 16. the proposed amendment submitted by the CDS-PP that were not damaged. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of BE and CDS-PP and abstentions from PSD, CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the numbers of Article 16. that of the proposed amendment submitted by BE that were not prejudiced. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 17. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We are now voting on the proposal from the CDS-PP to amend Article 17. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE and the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PAN and the Member of PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] The vote on the proposal submitted by the PS was followed by an amendment to Article 18. that of the replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention of the PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u312	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u313	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u314	Mr President, with regard to the following vote on the proposal from the CSD-PP amending Article 18. that of the replacement text, I would like to ask the Bureau to vote separately on paragraphs 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u315	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we started by voting on paragraph 7. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] The vote on paragraph 8 of the same article of the CDS-PP proposal is hereby followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u316	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u317	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u318	Mr President, since a proposal from the PS was adopted on Article 18 ( 8 ). this vote is detrimental to the extent that it proposes the elimination of a proposal for an amendment which has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u319	Mr President, the Bureau does not have access to the text of the proposals, so we should proceed with the vote. If you're hurt, you'll see. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us vote on Article 18 ( 8 ). the CDS-PP proposal. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u320	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u321	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u322	Mr President, it is to ask whether, having voted on paragraphs 7 and 8 of this amendment, we must not now vote on the remaining numbers contained in the same proposal. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u323	Mr President, according to the information available to the Bureau, the vote on the remaining numbers is detrimental.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u324	I'm sorry, Mr President, but I have a different script from the one the Bureau is using!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u325	Mr President, I understand your irritation, which is very shared. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on Article 19. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and The Greens and abstains from BE, CDS-PP, PAN and PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to delete Article 20. that of the replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the abstention of PS Member Ricardo Bexiga.]] We are now voting on the proposal from the PS to amend Article 20. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to amend Article 21. that of the replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member and by Members of the Left Block, amending Article 25. that of the replacement text. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and the Greens and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the remaining indicative votes in the speciality, within the Commission, with regard to this replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall proceed to the vote, in particular, on the text of the replacement tabled by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which shall adopt the rules of transparency applicable to private entities which carry out a legitimate representation of interests with public entities and shall establish a register of transparency of the representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic. We shall vote on a proposal from the CDS-PP to amend Article 5. this replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, BE, CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected and votes against the PS and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the remaining indicative votes in the speciality, within the Commission, with regard to this replacement text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The following is the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, on the 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ( Statutory of Members) on draft Law No 141 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Members, 150 / XIII / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political positions and high public positions and control of unjustified capital increases, 152 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of the Holders of Political Charges and High Public Charges, 153 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Amends the Statute of Members by making the system of exclusivity of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic, 218 / XIII / 1. a ( PSD ) — Tenth amendment to the Statute of Deputies adopted by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March and 226 / XIII / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthens transparency in the exercise of political and high public positions. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the PSD abstentions and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which approves the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions on draft Law No 142 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of the Holders of Political Charges and High Public Charges ( eighth amendment to Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August ), 150 / XIII / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthen the rules for transparency and rigour in the exercise of political positions and high public positions and control of unjustified capital increases, 152 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Amend the Statute of the Deputies and the Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of the Holders of Political Charges and High Public Charges, 157 / XIII / 1. a ( BE) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions, 160 / XIII / 1. a ( BE ) — Fight unjustified enrichment, 219 / XIII / 1. a ( PSD ) — No amendment to the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges, approved by Law No 64 / 93 of 26 August 220 / XIII / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ( Public Control of the Richness of Political Chargeholders ), 221 / XIII / 1. a ( PCP ) — Unjustified enrichment - thirty-fifth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July, and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April, and 226 / XIII / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthens transparency in the exercise of political and high public positions. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PAN and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u326	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u327	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u328	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u329	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text, submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which adopts the transparency rules applicable to private entities which make legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a register of transparency of the representation of interests with the Assembly of the Republic on draft Law Nos 225 / XIII / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Regulates the activity of professional representation of interests ( lobbying ), 734 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Approves the system of professional mediation activity in the representation of interests, 735 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Approves the registration regime of private entities performing representation of interests and 1053 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — lobbying regulations. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSDP and the Member of the PS Ricardo Bexiga.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u330	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u331	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u332	Mr President, in order to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written declaration of vote on the replacement texts on the Statute of Members and the legitimate representation of interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u333	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u334	Mr President, it was to request an oral vote on the overall final vote of these three replacement texts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u335	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Jorge Lacão, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u336	Mr President, it was to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote, necessarily in writing, on all the votes that took place.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u337	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Nuno Magalhães, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u338	Mr President, it was to say that we also want to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u339	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u340	Mr. President, I wanted to announce two things. First of all, I will present a statement of vote on all these votes. Secondly, I do not think that my vote on the proposal tabled by the CDS-PP has been recorded as an amendment to Article 16. that of the replacement text, submitted by the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, which approves the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions. In the points that were not prejudiced earlier, my point of vote was against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u341	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u342	Mr President, it was to inform the House that I will present a written statement of vote on the votes we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u343	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft legislation No 895 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recognizes and regulates the profession of criminologist(s) and 1054 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the scheme for the professional exercise of criminologists. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u344	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u345	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u346	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to the last vote we have made, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u347	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to the general vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on Bills No 165 / XIII / 1. a ( PS ) — The first amendment of Act No. 23 / 2006 of 23 June amending the legal regime of young associivism, 483 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — The first amendment of Act No. 23 / 2006 of 23 June is made by amending the legal regime of young associivism, 488 / XIII / 2. a ( BE) — Alter the Legal Regime of Associativism Jovem ( First Amendment to Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June ) and 492 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) — By creating a national plan to encourage student associations and by implementing measures to support and exempt costs in the establishment and recognition of youth associations and the Proposal for a Law No 133 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Legal Regime of Young Associativeism. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held, in particular at the Commission, concerning the replacement text presented by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport on draft Law No 165 / XIII / 1. a ( PS ), 483 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ), 488 / XIII / 2. a ( BE) and 492 / XIII / 2. a ( PCP ) and the Proposal for a Law No 133 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]] Mr Ivan Gonçalves, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u348	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u349	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Santinho Pacheco, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u350	Mr President, it is to inform you that, in my personal capacity, I will present a statement of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u351	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Amadeu Soares Alberdaria, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u352	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u353	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote on draft resolution No 2191 / XIII / 4. a ( President of the HR ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Second Parliamentary Commission for the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are following the reading of an opinion and the oral explanations of vote. I ask Vice-President José Manuel Pureza to replace me. [[At the moment, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u354	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read an opinion of the Subcommittee on Ethics.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u355	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the request of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Court of Leiria, Case No 1741 / 15.3BELRA, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Soares ( BE ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u356	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now turn to the oral explanations of vote, so I now give the floor to Mr João Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In combating climate change, more than words or symbolic declarations, action is needed. That's what this government has done! Portugal does not need to enter the climate emergency campaign, since it is already in line with the fight against climate change, both in definition and in the implementation of concrete measures. These measures led to Portugal, in 2018, being the European Country which most reduced carbon monoxide emissions. Portugal is on the front line by fulfilling the international goals to which it was proposed and by being the first country in the world to undertake the commitment of carbon neutrality until 2050. Yesterday, a set of diplomas was approved at the Council of Ministers, which reinforce the commitment to the decarbonisation of society, the circular economy and the enhancement of the territory. Among other diplomas, the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality 2050 was approved. Much more than words of awareness or mobilization, this Roadmap is the commitment to achieve carbon neutrality in Portugal by 2050, either by means of a reduction of more than 85 % of greenhouse gas emissions, or by increasing the capacity to kidnap carbon sinks to 12 million tonnes. This is a sensible and responsible Roadmap, aware that this process of economic and social transformation has to be timed. Taking on carbon neutrality already in 2030, 20 years before the forecast, would be, in addition to unrealistic, political irresponsibility. Portugal is on the right track and is an example in combating climate change. Thus, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not follow the recommendations of the draft resolutions of the PAN and the Left Block, which is why we voted against. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u358	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the oral explanations of vote on the diplomas we have just voted on. The first of these statements lies with Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this is virtually the final line of the completion of the work of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to emphasize not only the importance of the work done but also the complexity of what has been achieved today. This is the deepest and most comprehensive amendment to the legal regimes applicable to the exercise of public functions and political positions for many years, which is not always worthy of understanding, complexity and delay which is sometimes associated with these legislative processes. However, I think it is undoubtedly a case in which, whether we all agree or not with the final outcome, what is certain is that the work has settled in many hours of study and consultation with entities that have spoken on these matters and, moreover, of evaluation and modification of proposals, in which all parliamentary groups, I would like to say it again, regardless of the outcome we have now reached, must be recognized by the effort they have made in building a solution that prestigious public institutions. To all those who participated in this work, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group stresses its importance, passing by the two Mrs. Presidents of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, who have always made good use of the work at various times, as well as all the parliamentary groups who have worked hard to do so. when we complete this work we will ensure, for the first time, the regulation of the activity of representation of interests, a milestone that is relevant to Portugal and the future of this regime, which we will be able to deepen later. We pledge a single declaration of wealth and interest income, making it clearer the fulfilment of the reporting obligations, associated with the creation of the transparency entity that controls and ensures effective control. From here on, we have solved an old problem: one that concerns the enrichment and undeclared heritage and the intentional concealment of heritage. With a solution that is not inconsistent with the Constitution, we finally allow us to respond to something that has taken a long time, which we also supplement tax material relevant to the taxation of these incomes. The periods of disgust are extended and the inhibitions of activities are clarified, clearly delimited, incompatibilities and impediments in office and in contractual procedures, rules that have not existed so far on offers and hospitality are created, the possibility of codes of conduct to strengthen the quality of this legislation and, with regard to this House, the Statute of Members, we correspond to the expectations of civil society, in many respects, with regard to the compatibility of certain functions with the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u360	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u361	I will finish, Mr. President. I would also like to point out that we may not have achieved everything we wanted — not all the parliamentary groups were satisfied with these results — but the asymmetry of the votes and the different way in which we have completed these work reveals that a democracy to function is this very: consensus capacity where it is possible, where it exists, but ultimately the preservation of the institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u362	For an oral vote, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS voted against this new transparency regime, which Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has just synthesized now, because unfortunately what all parties in this House, with the exception of the CDS, have created was not a transparency regime but a transparency regime, a regime of the illusion of transparency, and with that we cannot compact. And we have done so for three main reasons: firstly, for the consecration of professional politicians in law. In order to compete with the Left Block and also with the PCP in the institution of exclusivity, the PS created a regime full of prohibitions which, later, to circumvent its own prohibitions, except for a chain of derogations which is curious to see. The example of this is the prohibition of Members being members of commercial or professional companies but can then suspend their share or social participation during the term of office of deputy. This is a very creative legal figure, which serves only one purpose: to pretend transparency in that there is no minimum transparency. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u364	Close the door to unlock the window on the side, it is something with which the CDS does not compact and is not available to accept. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u365	Secondly, the removal of some impediments in family ties. at a time when the scandal of family ties in the government broke out, and still screams, and they create laws to realize that they care about the problem, it is not understandable that the impediments that exist today in relation to the family in the context of public procurement should be alleviated. In addition, and thirdly, the registration of tenders. The CDS was the first to bring the proposal up the table and, after three years, what did the PS do? The PS made successive changes that completely distort the regime that the CDS brought and that end up in a regime that only interferes with pending judicial processes, and the CDS does not compact with it either. I shall conclude by saying that, despite all of this, there are two positive points: the system of representation of interests, which came to Parliament by the hand of the CDS, and one more step in the tightening of penalties for non-compliance, namely the criminalization of the lack of delivery of income declarations or its concealment. This is a step towards the credibility of the exercise of public functions, and in this part we follow. Transparency yes, transparency does not appear. Just thickens the opacity mantle. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-07.u366	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 12 June, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: from the first item there is an urgent debate, required by the Greens, on the theme 'to stop intensive and super-intensive agricultural crops'. of the second point is the re-evaluation of the Assembly decree No 290 / XIII / 4. the, about the maintenance of drug dispensation pharmacy to the public in hospitals of the National Health Service. of the third point is the discussion of the General Account of the State 2017. of the fourth point is the assessment of the Draft Law No 1153 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter taxation within IRS so that income becomes taxed in accordance with the actual income of the taxable person in each of the years to which they relate and the effective rate ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November 1988 ). of the fifth point is the discussion of the Drafts of Law No 1216 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the freeness of school textbooks in compulsory education in public education and 1218 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Free school textbooks for students who attend compulsory education in the public education network of the Ministry of Education ( second amendment to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August ). The sixth point, and last point, will consist in the assessment of Bill No. 1214 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the end to be attributed to the tips of cigarettes. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 14 minutes.]]
