ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. The agenda for today is contained in the appeal to the Government No 28 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — About the health situation in Portugal. However, before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: Parliamentary assessments Nos 138 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of 27 May, which changes the regime of the special nursing career as well as the nursing career regime in public business entities and health partnerships, and 140 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 63 / 2019 of 16 May, which establishes the legal regime of the institutions engaged in scientific research and development ; and Draft Resolution No 2177 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake the urgent rescue for the State of the Integrated System for the Portugal - SIRESP Emergency Network, which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Let us then enter today's agenda with the Government's Request No 28 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — About the health situation in Portugal. Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health : at this end of the legislature, this is the moment of a balance sheet of the Socialist Party's governance in the health sector. Contributing to this balance sheet, the former Minister of Socialist Health António Correia de Campos came to land this week to state, and I quote, that "the National Health Service is unfortunately very close to a serious crisis". Despite this socialist fault, the analysis made is so benevolent. The crisis of the SNS (National Health Service) is not close; the serious crisis of the National Health Service is installed and came by the hands of the Socialist Party. Health has never been a priority for this Prime Minister, nor for this government. And since it was not a priority, the government has failed to manage the National Health Service and it is the Portuguese who pay the bill — pay it in the form of a disease. Unfortunately, therefore, the Socialist Party's balance sheet on health can only be synthesized in one word: degradation. over these four years, with the Socialist Party, there has been a degradation of users' access to health services, becoming the patients increasingly hostage to waiting lists, clinically unacceptable, either for consultations, or for surgeries, or for exams. This government is indeed the champion of the private initiative. by preventing access to health, the government has forced people to use private health care, often spending what they do not have to ensure their health care or the health care of their children or parents. Let it be clear: the government forces the Portuguese to take advantage of private health services. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u5	We therefore have a constitution that enshrines the right to health, but we have a government that fears not to comply with the Constitution. over these four years, with the Socialist Party, there was a degradation of working conditions for health professionals in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u6	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u7	Dismotivated, exhausted and at the limit of their working capacity, these professionals are still treated by the protection with repeated acts of disrespect, which clearly does not value their dedication and their preponderant role as guarantor of the quality of the SNS — simply unacceptable! More recently, with this Minister of Health, we see that when a professional class makes its voice heard, contrary to the government's propaganda, the action is always the same: they discredit those who criticize and silence their critics. But this is already known: « Whoever messs with the PS, take it! Do not keep on seeking. ” In addition, it is recognized that the Government has difficulty in dealing with criticism and even with the supervisory role of the Assembly of the Republic. in the background, the government is struggling with transparency. As an example, Parliament is still waiting until today for the Minister to send us the relationship of health professionals in the SNS. How many professionals have entered and how many have left the National Health Service since the beginning of the legislature? The government repeats, until exhaustion, that it has hired over 9000 public health officials, but in fact, the leaders of the National Health Service do not know where they are. And complaints of SNS degradation are multiplied by several independent entities. It is not by chance that the Government, between budget cuts and captivating, has reduced the budget of the Health Regulatory Entity by almost 50 %. The Health Regulatory Entity, which should have a central role in our health system, sees its voice silenced by the socialist closed fist. over these four years, with the Socialist Party, there was an objective degradation of the investment in the National Health Service, and this is seen in the negative impact it has on the lives of patients. We see the process of the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João : children with cancer to be treated "in miserable conditions", quoting the president of the hospital at the time, and with repeated promises of rapid resolution — and nothing happened. Shame on the SNS and the country! In 2017, Ms. Minister of Health signed a document in which she undertook to have the pediatric wing working in 2019. We arrived in 2019 and realized that neither the government had prepared for the work—he signed it without reading! in the background, the government promised that it would not comply, deceiving the Portuguese. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the seriousness of the situation: we are before parents who have received the news that their son or daughter has a cancer diagnosis and has to do chemotherapy. And in this context, the government forces these parents to have a citizenship act as well, to fight for a new pediatric wing. Honestly, if this does not make the Prime Minister « paint the face of shame», nothing will do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u8	The government said that the children would not be in the containers and that they would go to the central building until the work happened. The promise dates back to 2018 and we all know that nothing happened. They postponed the promise by March of this year, and nothing happened. More recently, they postponed the promise for June this year, to two days from now, and so far nothing has happened. Mrs. Minister, for God's sake, get the children out of the containers now! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] But unfortunately, this is just one of many examples of disinvestment in health in our country. The degradation of primary health care is seen: for the first time since 2000 there has been a breakdown in the satisfaction of the users. In fact, the government had promised that, until the end of the legislature, all Portuguese would have their family doctor. At the end of the mandate, more than half a million Portuguese continue without a family doctor — a promise made, a broken promise! In fact, this government has a serious problem with the floor. We cannot value what is promised because, almost always, these promises are not fulfilled. This is the case with palliative care, where we stand for lack of investment, despite repeated promises, leaving terminal patients in suffering. And that's what this government never realized: the SNS exists to serve people. in an attempt to divert attention from the problems, the government has advanced with a proposal for a basic health law, knowing in advance that there is no basic law that can save the SNS from the problems that the government itself created.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u9	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u10	The Government has presented a simple, sectarian proposal that does not value the patients, a backward vision for health that has in the anthem of the Communist International their soundtrack, as well as the musical taste of the Minister of Health. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u11	in the background, the government presented a reduction and ideologically sent proposal. We well know that Prime Minister Antonio Costa said repeatedly that he did not have the PSD to approve the new health-based law. We also know that the Government has been having talks and negotiations, more or less secret, even with the exchange of written proposals, with its partners from the far left. Despite our spirit of openness and our calls to build a law of consensus and oriented to the needs of citizens, the PSD has never been found either by the government or by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u12	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u13	Despite all this, the PSD, a responsible party with a clear vision for the health sector in Portugal, presented a proposal for a new law, a proposal that incorporates the most robust scientific evidence, trends and best international practices, as well as contemporary challenges, such as mental health and aging. Above all, the PSD presented a proposal that represents a vision of the future for the National Health Service. The Socialist Party and its extreme-left partners have systematically voted against the PSD proposals, in the field of specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u14	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u15	It seems clear what the government wants with the discussion of the basic law: an element to distract Portuguese from the problems they live in the SNS and serve socialist ideology and customers. The inevitable result of this path would be a health-based law that could put ideology in front of people. For PSD, this can't be the way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u17	The PSD has a moderate, balanced and inclusive proposal in Parliament. We, the Social Democratic Party, always place the interests of the country above the party conveniences or at the moment. Therefore, the PSD is available to incorporate any suggestions from the Socialist Party in the proposal that we present, provided that these suggestions contribute to an effective improvement of Portuguese health. Therefore, the challenge is launched. The Socialist Party is being challenged, this is the time of truth. It is now in the hands of the Socialist Party to contribute so that the country can have a new basic law that places people in the center of the system. PSD is available. Is the PS? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u18	In the opening phase, the Government has the floor, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the year in which 40 is signed. the anniversary of the National Health Service and in which an effective new basic law is discussed, the performance of the Portuguese health system, particularly that of the National Health Service, has deserved particular social and political attention, a clear sign of the relevance of the theme. This is not unpublished. The recent OECD Report Risks that Matter, based on an inquiry to citizens of 21 countries, including Portugal, shows that the fear of getting sick and not getting adequate care is the prevailing social and economic risk and that improving public health services is the first priority identified for the social policy area. The response to this expectation from citizens and the conviction that public health services are one of the most powerful instruments for building a more cohesive society have justified a clear preference on the part of this government. It was on behalf of this preference that, throughout the current legislature, we worked to fulfill the commitments we made with the Portuguese in our program. in improving public health, in reducing inequalities of access, in strengthening the power of the citizen in the National Health Service, in modernizing the primary health care network, in improving the management of hospitals, in the expansion of the continuous care network, in improving the management of human resources in health, in strengthening the governance of the SNS and in improving quality it is possible to measure the degree of compliance of each of the objectives that we propose to achieve. We could talk about government action in each of these areas, referring to positive examples, such as the programs to promote healthy food and physical activity, the reduction of moderate rates, free access and circulation in the National Health Service, oral health and visual health in primary health care, home hospitalization, the diversification of continuous care and mental health responses, the strengthening of transparency and accountability or the creation of the National Health Council (NCS ), but we prefer to discuss three areas in which the National Health Service continues to discuss with difficulties, despite the long journey: health professionals, funding and access. Let's start with the health professionals. In less than four years, comparing December 2015 with April 2019, we increased the number of SNS professionals in 10 800 effective. They are more 1800 specialists, 4400 nurses and 1000 technicians. The SNS has today the greatest working force ever: there are more than 6400 workers than before the start of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme — and I am now protesting to add the information that refers to where they are and that I will ask that it be distributed at the end of my speech. The 130 800 professionals who worked in the National Health Service in April 2019 are no longer subject to reductions in wages and increases for additional work and uncomfortable hours, the imposition of 40 hours a week and the freezing of their careers. We fulfilled our program, returned income, and, whenever we could, we went further. We did this when : we harmonised the normal working period of 35 hours for all workers; we improved the conditions of the allocation of incentives to geographical mobility for deprived areas; we created the special career of pre-hospital emergency technician and the one of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician; we optimized the pharmaceutical career; and we revived the nursing career. It will be what we will continue to do until the end of the Legislature, opening, within the deadlines, the contest for the degree of consultant and for the senior medical career assistant category and also the competition for the categories of specialist and main specialist in the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technician. the same way we did this month, when we opened another competition for 1264 specialist doctor's jobs, of which 398 family doctor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u20	Where are they? No one sees them! They're ghosts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u21	... or when, even today, we signed the office that recognizes the pay supplement due to the exercise of the functions of specialist nurse, in 2018, to more 620 jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we also discuss and analyse funding. In less than four years, the SNS budget increased by EUR 1400 million. In addition, as part of the financial rebalancing strategy of the health sector, capital reinforcements and advances have been made since the beginning of 2018 to program contracts of more than EUR 1500 million for debt payment. And yesterday we signed the order approving the settlement plans for late payments of the public corporate entities of the SNS, which exceeds EUR 850 million, to increase the funds available. Between 2016 and 2018 investments of EUR 360 million were made and in 2019 the Budget entered more EUR 174 million in this area. They are already more than 50 primary health care units built of roots or remodeled, many of them with structural funds and in partnership with municipalities. There are 22 interventions to remodel hospital emergency services, hundreds of replacement equipment and expansion of installed capacity. In addition, in March last, the Council of Ministers approved the investment programme in the field of health, worth more than 86 million euros, including, for example, the extension of the multi-purpose urgency of the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Centre or the construction of the new building for the emergency service of the Setúbal hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u22	What a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u23	in this legislation, we have worked to ensure that investment intentions often announced, such as that of the integrated pediatric hospital of the Hospital Center of São João, now have project, financing and schedule. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A development framework that the new central hospital of Alentejo, Sintra hospital or Seixal hospital are also going along. Finally, we discussed access to the National Health Service, in terms of coverage by family doctor and in terms of compliance with guaranteed maximum response times ( TMRG ). On the one hand, in less than four years, the number of Portuguese with a family doctor was reduced by more than 300 000. Although approximately 1400 vacancies have been opened for family doctor and the retention rate of the recent specialists in this area has been around 88% at the moment, the goal that we intend to achieve remains. The distance from which we will be left depends on the completion of the 398 additional vacancies now open. On the other hand, in less than four years, comparing the care activity of December 2018 with that of 2015, more 589 000 medical consultations were conducted in primary health care, more 184 000 medical consultations in hospital care and more 18 000 surgeries. Despite the increase in response, the failure to meet the maximum guaranteed response times remains one of the greatest challenges to the performance of the SNS. In 2018, the percentage of compliance of TMRGs in the consultations referred to in the consultation on time and time did not exceed 71 % and that of registered surgeons was 72%. Although it is known that the reduction of reference times for a first consultation and priority 1 surgery, which took place in January 2018, increased this difficulty, we do not comply with these results. They undermine the Portuguese confidence in the SNS, the confidence of those Portuguese who most need the SNS. Therefore, we will continue to work with the management teams of all units so that TMRGs are respected and, in particular, that by the end of 2019 no SNS user will have waiting times longer than one year. For this, we count on all those who work in the SNS, as always, indeed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the Portuguese generality, after years of great difficulties, the National Health Service has been recovering the normality of its operation. That's why we need to take another step. Lately, talking about the National Health Service has been complaining about the allocation of more resources, more human resources and more funding. at this time, while recognizing that health has increasing costs, it is urgent to re-establish the concern with productivity and with efficiency in the management and work of the SNS. Contributing citizens and users are demanding this. We need to do more, but above all we need to do better. For this we count, as always, with the professionals of the SNS and we count on everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u24	We will now enter the debate period, beginning with requests for clarification to the PSD. Four entries are made by Mrs and Mrs. Members of the PS. Mr António Sales has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u25	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, degradation is not in the SNS. Degrading is the role that PSD plays when it instruments the health of Portuguese and Portuguese children for these political numbers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite said yesterday to the social communication that the PSD marked this debate to establish an emergency plan to save the National Health Service. Mr. Deputies, you're four years late! We have done nothing but defend, save, recover, develop the SNS and give the Portuguese confidence to be able to use their National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u26	Nobody notices anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u27	As far as the rostrum is concerned, the honourable Member has tried to say that the government has not responded to your appeals and warnings. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] Mr President, do you know how many times this government has responded to the House between hearings and appeals? He came 48 times, Mr. Deputy. I repeat, 48 times! Some of the ladies. Do you remember the subject matter of these appeals? Do any Members remember the substance or content of any of these petitions? Oh, my God! You only recovered news from the newspaper, surgically chosen, and the government had to respond and heal the wounds that you left open in 2015 in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the honourable Member has tried to make a negative balance sheet of the activity of this government. Mr, our balance sheet is very objective and is ahead of us: more EUR 1400 million in budgetary reinforcement; more 9000 professionals; more 600 000 consultations; more 30 000 surgeries; greater coverage of family doctors; more investment in new hospitals and new health centres. But it would be interesting to make the balance of the PSD opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u28	That would be very interesting.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u29	That balance sheet was to say wrong about everything the government did. He said it was wrong to reduce moderate rates, said it was wrong to strengthen the number of professionals, said it was wrong to reintroduce salaries and replace 35 hours. He was against everything and against everyone on every occasion. The erratic and inconsequential political conduct of the PSD is an inevitable cause of the negative balance in the eyes of the Portuguese. Mr President, I would say that the PSD's political assets have been depreciated, that the liabilities have increased and that the PSD's political credit is today non-existent. And if there were any doubts, the demonstration of results was last Sunday, with the result achieved in the European elections. For all this, Mr President, I would like to ask you the following: with such a weak balance of opposition throughout this legislature, how can the PSD claim to be an alternative to this government? How is it possible for this PSD opposition, without ideas, without solutions, without proposals to offer the Portuguese, to present itself in October as a political force capable of consolidating the National Health Service? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u30	Mr Luís Graça has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u31	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, after a negative election week—very negative! — the PSD, without surprise, once again recovers the issue of health, attempting to explore, from an emotional point of view, the difficulties and constraints of the National Health Service. We know, and the Portuguese also have, that it is necessary to continue to invest in the SNS, in the hiring of new professionals, in the technological modernization of equipment, but the Portuguese know that where you have decreased we have increased. Where you have decreased professionals, we have increased, where you have decreased doctors, we have increased, where you have decreased nurses, we have increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u32	Oh, yeah? Very obvious! That's why they strike!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u33	The Portuguese know that there are inadequacies, but they also know that only the PS government guarantees a sustainable and continuous investment plan and modernisation of the SNS. Allow me, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, to give you the example of the Algarve, which you so much like to explore with cases. The PSD strategy for the Algarve went through the merger of three hospitals, merging it without any plan, without any study, made from top to bottom, i.e. imposing a merger on doctors. The strategy of this merger went through the dismantling of the algarvo barlavent hospital, which according to the PSD should become a kind of health center, losing almost all the medical-surgical specialties, closing, for example, the maternity and pediatrics of the Portimão unit, announcing the PSD, at the time, that it already had in Faro — imagine! — apartments to place the pregnant women of Aljezur, of Vila de Bispo, until they can give birth. This was the PSD program for the health of half the population of the Algarve. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, who should have come here today, to make a fault was you, in relation to what they did between 2011 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Each year that, with the right, has been lost in investment is an effort to duplicate or triple that now has to be done. But I fear it, in the Algarve and also in the Country. Mr. Deputies, the PSD can continue to make the case policy by exploring the emotions with what runs less well in the SNS, because Portuguese know that behind the pre-election lamb skin is the predator wolf of the SNS. Mr President, today we are aware that the PSD does not want anything with the proposed PS Basic Health Law, which is a progressive proposal aimed at sustainability and modernization. The PSD does not want to discuss the SNS with the Socialist Party and the Government. I conclude, and may conclude the figures, that if you had the opportunity, you would close Portimão's maternity ward again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u34	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u35	Mr President, through the Deputies Antonio Sales and Luís Graça, the Socialist Party comes in line with what we used to, to worry more about elections and less about people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u36	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u37	In fact, it was not by chance that they both referred to the electoral act of the last weekend. But it is still interesting to hear from Mr Graça, starting with the fact that the SNS is now full of difficulties and constraints. In fact, the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, has already gone further by saying that the next mandate of the Socialist Party — with the expectation of being able to become a government again — will be a betting mandate on access to health. I mean, what was this mandate? What have these last four years been? It is that the SNS did not guarantee access to the Portuguese population, and that makes sense every day by the Portuguese people. In fact, you were talking about investment, and I would like to know whether you were talking about the budgeted investment or the executed investment, because when you look at what you have actually done year after year over the past four years, you see that you have spent less and less on the time of the troika. But of course the blame for the situation in the National Health Service must be for the Rabbit Steps! When we look at the reality of the facts, it is interesting to see how, on the one hand, they criticize the previous management and, on the other hand, they have sought the former Minister to govern your public bank. But Mr. António Sales said that the National Health Service hired 9000 employees. In fact, Mrs. Minister said she was finally going to provide the data, but we visited hospitals from north to south and, when we get there, we realized that there are fewer human capital available to meet the needs of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u38	We need too much! We need too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u39	... reason why waiting times increase beyond clinically acceptable times. What we are watching is an inability to respond, a result of poor management, and we have found that, of all the necessary investments, including in the Algarve, where they had promised a new hospital — no longer to speak in Eastern Lisbon, no longer to speak in the Sixth, and the list continues — none has been done!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u40	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u41	So we have four years of government that have gone by! And we have a Minister of Health who speaks as if the government had started eight months ago, as if the three years in which nothing has been done were not responsible for this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u42	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u44	Therefore, the Social Democratic Party will continue to fight and we will not abdicate to highlight the cases of people living with difficulties in the SNS, including at the pediatric wing of the Hospital of São João. And the Minister has once again refused to say when it will solve the situation, which is a real situation. [[PS protests.]] You're worried about the elections, we're worried about people! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u45	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Marisabel Moutela, also from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u46	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, the PS government has not failed in health. Yes, the SNS has a difficult situation, so they have contributed a lot to VV. Ex., with a pure decommissioning governance. Recovering and saving the SNS is what this government has done. Remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Ordinance No 82 / 2014, which provided for, among many other services in the country, the closure of the cardiology and thoracic surgery service in the Hospital Center of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro? Well, thanks to the PS government, not only did it not close as it had for another year already a unit of heart failure and rehabilitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it already has its magnetic resonance imaging device which, with the TAC (computed axial tomography) of the Hospital de Lamego, is an investment of 1,2 million. Speaking of Lamego Hospital, do you remember that Pomposian inauguration of only half the operation of the hospital when the rest of the floors were empty? Because, in addition to TAC, the medical emergency room and emergency service began to have invasive and non-invasive ventilation devices to ensure artificial breathing to emerging and acute patients. Speaking at the Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro Hospital Centre, you will now have the second linear accelerator — EUR 4, EUR 9 million — and will be rehabilitated the energy system. in this hospital, doctors specialists stopped working 24 hours and 24 days in 30, because now there are 314 doctors specialists, when, before, there were only 235. The same happens at the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center, which went from 302 medical specialists to 344,... [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] ... and now start the rehabilitation and extension of the emergency service, which means EUR 5, EUR 7 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u47	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u48	They remember the participations of thermal treatments, which VV. Did they cut them? They're back.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u49	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u50	Do you remember a medical emergency ambulance, which did not exist in the urgency of São Pedro do Sul? There you are, too, more than a year ago. These are just a few examples of what has been recovered in the SNS in this region. The coverage of family doctors, yes, in this region, is almost 100 %. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, please tell us what they have done, what they have dismantled and what they have rejected in this region, in these hospitals, in human resources, equipment and infrastructure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u51	For further questions, Mrs Maria da Luz Lopes has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD understood to ask the government about measures taken in the National Health Service. Well, for us, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, the truth stands out in facts that, as much as you try to distort it, are unquestionable. How can you speak in retrospect in health, when, and as an example, in the Middle Tejo Hospital, significant improvements are being made. Now, let us see: the return of internal medical valences in the units of Tomar and Torres Novas, which before had been closed, the strengthening of the ability of surgical hospitalization and the development of the Autonomous Unit of Diabetes and Obesity ; the strengthening of the capacity of day hospitals ; the significant strengthening of the investment after 2015 in the renewal of diagnostic and treatment equipment, such as the case of TAC in the unit of Tomar, in operation since October 2018 ; the reopening of the operating block of Torres Novas, in 2017 ; and also a strong commitment in technical modernization and in the quality of training in the speciality of internal medicine, among other specialties. With the Socialist Party, health focuses on standards of quality and safety of public service, so we increase human resources. In response, we obtained a very significant increase in care activity—over 10,000 surgeries in 2016 at the Tejo Middle Hospital Center—and a decrease in 22 000 of the number of people without a family doctor in our district. But it is not only at the Midwest Hospital Center that good practices produce good results. Also in the hospital of Santarém, the scenario has changed in the last three years. The current works amount to EUR 6 million and will boost timely and better responses. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD bench, all this work has been possible only thanks to a very large link among all of them: boards of administration of the hospital of Santarém and the Hospital Center of the Medium Tejo and organs of the Ministry of Health, which means, of course, an ongoing bet on investments in the provision of health care. Are there evidence that our health, I repeat, does not forget the situation of your users and is a friend of your people? Oh, my God! You criticize, we do! How long are they going to deny the obvious? Oh, my God! Question : what investments were made between 2011 and 2015 and what comparison do they make with the post-2015 period? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u53	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the worst blind is the one you don't want to see. [[PS protests.]] And that's what we live! But this, in fact, violates the democratic process and pollutes people's lives. When we have a bench, which represents, in essence, the main support of the government, to deny all the real problems that are living in the National Health Service... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u55	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u56	... and that people live daily,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u57	... negating the shameful waiting times that pass in many of those hospitals... Mrs. Deputée is of Trás-os-Montes, where there have been two years waiting in pneumology, of three years waiting in urology. He spoke to me here in Viseu, where an oncological center has been promised since the beginning of the mandate, but until today there is only one platinum!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u58	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u59	You're not answering the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u60	What we are checking is in fact a denial of reality. But what really saddens me, more than as a member of the Social Democratic Party, more than as a health professional, as a citizen, is that it was launched, by the largest party, with greater representation in this Assembly of the Republic, a challenge to the Socialist Party, the party of Mário Soares, in that they could come to meet the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, to solve the real problems that cross the National Health Service, so that we can build a solution for the future in these 40 years of SNS and ensure that we can have more than 40 years not only of sustainability but of quality assurance for the patients, for the Portuguese citizens, so that health is, in fact, an instrument for progress, for development and prosperity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u61	He's not responding to anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u62	...but from the Socialist Party, four interventions later, the answer is zero! There is no thought, there is no vision, there is nothing! Mrs. Members, understand your role as Members of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u63	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u64	for their responsibility, come to meet the challenge that the PSD has launched. The challenge is launched, it is in the hands of the Socialist Party to ensure that the Health Bases Act can be responsible, moderate and inclusive, to meet the interests of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u65	He didn't answer anything! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u66	We now move on to the question stage of the government. Only 17 Members are registered, which will be distributed in three blocks. Let's start with the first block, for which I give the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, of course, the Minister and all those present at this session have already guessed the subject I am going to talk about. Yes, I'm going to talk again about funding the Madeira hospital, Mrs. Minister. You will say that I am stubborn, and yes, you will say that I am persistent, and yes, because this is, in fact, Mrs Minister, one of the most important issues for Madeira and one of the ones who is most concerned about Madeirans and the Portuguese-Saints. at the end of four years, Mrs. Minister, four long years of much conversation, of many outdoors, of numerous promises, of advances and retreats of the government, the financing of Madeira hospital, Mrs. Minister, remains wrapped up and little more than at the same point of departure. More, Mrs Minister : at the end of four years, the government has never been able, it has never been available to clarify this funding or to answer the questions we put to it. You know, Minister, why are we where we are and the government has not even been able to answer the questions that the Madeirans and the Portuguese people have addressed to you? Oh, my God! They were so simple questions that we put them back today. For example, they clarify the funding amount of the new hospital. We want to know whether or not they deduct the value of Dr. Nelio Mendonça and Marmeleiros hospitals to the financed amount. We want to know whether transfers add VAT or not (value added tax) and when this government will pay the approximately 18 million it owes to Madeira for health subsystems. The Government did not respond, Minister, because it does not like Madeira. The Government has not responded, Minister, because it has an anti-Madeira agenda. The government has not responded because it has indeed a strategy to devalue Madeira. But, Mrs. Minister, the Madeirans and the Portuguese people have already understood the government's strategy and, this Sunday, they have also said they don't like this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u68	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary and Secretary of State, on 23 August 2018, therefore last year, the Council of Ministers authorised more than 230 million euros for Cascais'public-private partnership ( PPP ), to extend the contract with the current private entity that manages it, of its name Luxury Health. We know that this entity, in this public-private partnership, is accused of falsifying screenings, falsifying clinical records of patients and even manipulating indicators. In fact, we already knew about it in 2016. In 2016, the Left Block alerted the Government, in a written question addressed to it, on the manipulation of indicators in this public-private partnership, including consultations that were recorded as surgeries. however, the Government has decided, nevertheless, badly, against the public interest, certainly to extend the contract with this private entity. It decided to extend the contract and even in the Council of Ministers to congratulate it with EUR 230 million. What is important to answer here is whether, in the light of the new facts of counterfeiting, forgery of clinical records, the Government maintains the extension of the contract to this entity and maintains the intention of, by the end of 2021, to continue to transfer to the Luxury Health EUR 230 million for it to do this: to question the health and safety of its users. It would be possible to say 'good, it is a rotten apple' and 'this is just a case between everything that is public-private partnerships', but it is not so. In Vila Franca de Xira, we know of users hospitalized at meals, in bathrooms, and no, it wasn't exceptionally, it wasn't just during a day when something very extraordinary happened. It happened for years, within and outside the influenza period, to hundreds of users, in a public-private partnership hospital run by the Mello Group, which costs more than 80 million euros per year to the National Health Service. The question is obvious: the government has until tomorrow, May 31st, to say what it will do with this public-private partnership, if it will prolong it, if it will renew it, if it will launch a new contract... what will it do? This is the obvious question, because, of course, the Minister already knows what the answer she is going to give to the Mello Group and it was therefore good for her to be here today too.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u70	Tomorrow morning!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u71	The right answer for the National Health Service was that this public-private partnership would be to finish. There are still other examples, such as that of Loure's public-private partnership. A clinical director of this public-private partnership, managed by Luz Saúde, was appointed clinical director of the Hospital da Luz, certainly in a convenient way. As it was a little too evident to accumulate both clinical directions, Loures' public-private partnership invented a small place, not as a clinical director, but as a clinical vice-director, for this person and therefore also accumulated the two clinical directions, in Loures' public-private partnership and in the Hospital da Luz, both managed by the Health Light. This promiscuity is certainly unacceptable. It's unacceptable! Question: What will you do before this data and this promiscuity? More than these cases in particular, what is seen is that the problem of public-private partnerships is not a matter of defect to one or another, it is even a spell. It's not bad. It's ugly. The public-private partnerships are like this: they are against the public interest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u73	... attack the National Health Service, they are a problem that needs to be removed from the National Health Service! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u74	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u75	I will finish, Mr. President. We had reached an agreement that provided exactly the way for the defense of the National Health Service without public-private partnerships. There were setbacks on the part of the Government and the Socialist Party, which were public and noted by all the defenders of the National Health Service, but still long ago, because important issues were not voted on in the specialty, particularly on public-private partnerships. The question is whether, then, the Government and the Socialist Party are available to return to this path of defense of the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u77	... and putting an end to this little shame that are the public-private partnerships in health and the private business done on account of the budget of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u78	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, as well as the PS bench, made a portrait of the reality of the SNS, but the reality of its governance can be synthesized in a simple expression: the PS government has not capitalized the National Health Service, and I know exactly how. First, they did not make public investment. In 2018, the implementation rate was 44 %, less than 170 million euros than was expected and which was already very little. They repeat unceasingly that 9000 professionals have been hired — now they say it is 10 800 — but never explain that this is not the real net impact on the system, because only the simple fact that, in the meantime, they have been decided and applied the 35 hours would require an increase in the hiring of care hours. They don't pay suppliers debts either. In March, the debt was EUR 1675 million and, in four years, it was always above the previous government. And what is the Minister's answer to this problem? Looking for a structural solution, how many times have we discussed? Don't! It presents a payment plan by December 2020 or, then, by 2023, both dates beyond the end of the legislature and out of scrutiny. The Minister, therefore, does not invest, does not hire properly and does not pay debts. Therefore, we are not afraid of the consequences: the successive resignations of the departments and clinical directions, because they do not have the means to work and ensure the clinical safety of those who serve, and the times of waiting not fulfilled, in about a fifth of the surgeries and in 40% of the specialist consultations. Again, Mr.Minister's best response, four months from the end of the legislature, is to draw a plan by the end of 2019 to solve the problem of those who have been waiting for another year. This is not to mention many other examples, such as the case of patients with hepatitis C, who are now waiting, contrary to what happened at the end of the previous legislation, between four months and one year to receive treatment. All this, Mrs. Minister, because instead of managing the more than 100 hospitals that integrate the SNS, Mrs. Minister, like the Block, is obsessed with four PPPs. Instead of solving the real problems of the SNS, the Minister is concerned about demonizing both the private and the social in the Health Bases Act. And I cannot open here a parenthesis to point out the speech that I heard today to Mr. Secretary of State, at the Iberian Summit of Private Hospitals, where, contrary to this current discourse, he was even pleased with the participation of the private sector, saying something that I recorded: « I am the Secretary of State of Health, I am not the Secretary of State of the SNS », which is to praise. For the CDS, one of the critical vectors, as we repeat, through the proposals we have put forward, has to do with autonomy and funding for results. In fact, in September 2018, the government presented a pilot project for 11 hospitals that went in this direction. It happens that, nine months later, of such 11, there is only one hospital that has its budget approved by the Ministry of Finance, which is the District Hospital of Figueira da Foz. So, the legislature is ending, Mrs. Minister finished her speech talking about efficiency and I ask you: why isn't this pilot project going forward? He's four months old, what prevents him from moving forward? Is it not obvious that only with more autonomy, with confidence and performance in hospital management is that you can unlock contracts, make investments and ensure, to users, consultations and surgeries in time and time and, to health professionals, the means to ensure a quality SNS? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u80	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, we learned that the PPP of Cascais fakes clinical results and algorithms of the emergency screening system, with a single objective, which is certainly not to improve the quality of the health care it provides, but rather to charge more to the state. Not to register properly the symptoms of patients in emergencies, to assign them a bracelet that is not the one that should have, in order not to be considered urgent patients, and thus the hospital is not penalized by the failure to comply with the recommended waiting times, to be true, is criminal. Or changing the clinical data of the users to aggravate their situation and from there on, charging more to the state is, at least, indecent. We also learned that the PPP of Vila Franca de Xira activates the contingency plan at times when this has no justification, bringing patients into inappropriate places — so to speak — what is inhumane. And that's all you know! We also recall that the Braga PPP did not treat the most complex patients, sent them to the hospitals in Porto and, at the end of the contract, required the State to pay more than 40 million euros. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mr Minister, all that I have mentioned is sufficient to justify why clinical management and the building under public-private partnership should be terminated. It is the reality that gives reason to the CFP's proposal to ensure the public management of the National Health Service establishments. It is more than demonstrated that what moves private groups, in the area of health, is not the guarantee of the right to health, it is not the access to health, it is not the provision of quality health care. What effectively moves them and what is a priority for these private groups is profit. PPPs do not defend nor have ever defended the public interest and interest of users. For PPPs, health is not a business... Besides, it is not a right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u82	Ah! ...I was almost there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u83	...is, yes, a business, and a business of millions of euros, which must be stopped and to which one must end. In 2019 alone, nearly 500 million euros will be transferred to PPPs in health, resources that could and should be invested in strengthening public service. So, Minister, the question is this: when will the government put an end to this scandal? What decision will the Government take, in particular, with regard to the PPP of Vila Franca de Xira? You're going to advance on the path you took, and well, regarding the PPP of Braga, how have we been defending for so long? Will your public management be guaranteed or will you choose to maintain it? It is very clear and it is in the eyes of everyone that the public management of the health institutions of the SNS is, without a doubt, the solution that guarantees the defence of public interests and those who defend the opposite is next to the interests of private groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u84	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, the PSD has allocated this inquiry to the Government on the health situation in Portugal, and well, because it is always appropriate and relevant to discuss such an important topic as the health and access of Portuguese people to health. What is strange is that the PSD is now so concerned about the situation of the National Health Service. [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] And we are surprised, because the PSD voted against the creation of the National Health Service. We are surprised because the PSD has always looked aside to what represents one of the greatest advances of our people in the post-25th April. We are surprised because the PSD, together with the CDS-PP, was the only author of the current Health Bases Act, which allowed the promiscuity between the public sector and the private sector, which settled between us and whose results we can all find now. In fact, there are currently more private hospitals than public hospitals. And we are, above all, surprised at what the PSD has done, with regard to Portuguese access to health care, during the last government. In fact, as much as it costs the PSD and CDS admit - if we had to synthesize the health policy of the previous government, PSD / CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u86	We're going in four years of this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u87	... it would reduce-CL to four central conclusions: blind cuts in an area as sensitive as that of health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u88	Four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u89	... closure of health services throughout the country, a deliberate effort to push the costs for users and, finally, but not least, a very clear orientation of fattening the private market with health interests, which has just culminated in the fact that, as I said recently, we have more private hospitals than public. in a sentence, the PSD government and the CDS left the National Health Service practically in coma! however, the Minister, of course, the position of this government cannot be compared with that of the previous government in relation to health, because that would be wasting time. There is no news of the closure of health services, there is no news of the dismissal of health professionals — on the contrary, there has been even insufficient strengthening of health professionals — and there has been no new burden on users, particularly on moderate rates and on the transport of patients, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u90	It's chaos!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u91	Therefore, the comparison cannot be made with the previous government, because it is incomparable, the comparison must be made between what is being done by this government and what Portuguese are entitled to in health matters. And in this regard, Mrs Minister, we are, in fact, a long way off. Things are better, it's true, but they're not okay.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u92	Better? Oh, my God! Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u93	They are not good, for example, at the level of waiting times for consultations, especially for consultations with family doctors. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] They are not well, for example, when we realize that, due to the lack of professionals, the medical emergency ambulances of INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) are reaching levels of inoperability as never before seen, so as not to give other examples. Mrs. Minister, I have two questions, in particular, to address you. The first concerns exactly the INEM and the government's commitments to the hiring of new pre-hospital emergency technicians. I recall that the Government has made a commitment to hire 100 new pre-hospital emergency technicians per year from 2016 onwards. Mrs. Minister, I would like you to give us a balance sheet of the commitment the Government has made in this matter, because, for what we know, only in 2016 has a competition opened for 100 new technicians who started working in 2018, but from then on this failed. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I would like to know what balance I make of this commitment taken by the Government. The second question, Mrs. Minister, concerns the situation that has come to live at Vila Franca de Xira Hospital. O Minister, hundreds of patients admitted to meals are something that does not remember the devil! So the patients don't even have a bell to call the nurse in case of an emergency? Oh, my God! [[But things weren't better?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u94	They're better than they were! [[PSD protests.]] I will repeat: I have heard the PSD members speak, but I have not yet heard them accuse the government of dismissing any health professionals or of stopping any health services! I haven't heard them yet! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[PSD protests.]] Perhaps, until the end of the debate, I can still hear them! So I will put the points to us: things are better and they are not even comparable to the attitude that the previous government has had. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u95	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u96	Before you finish, Mr President, let me say that the PSD even had a minister who closed down services and said it was to improve access, which is curious! Mrs. Minister, I was saying that it is absolutely unacceptable and intolerable that the private treat the patients as they are being treated at Vila Franca de Xira Hospital. Now, since the government, of course, has to tell the Mello Health Group what it wants to do for the future, i.e. whether or not it will continue with the public-private partnership, I ask you, Mr Minister, if, in view of what we now know and what is going on in this hospital, it was not time for the State to call to itself again the responsibility for the management of Vila Franca de Xira Hospital and, now, if you can anticipate what will be communicated to the Mello Health Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u97	You have the word, to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health, Martha Fear. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Minister, I ask you to wait a bit. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but I have to draw your attention to the fact that we are in the Hemicycle and not in the Lost Steps. We need to create conditions for the session to take place as it should. Mrs. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have put to me. I will begin by trying to answer the issues that have been raised around public-private partnerships in the field of health. The Government Programme on this subject was very clear: it was based on strengthening the National Health Service — and that is what we have been trying to do — and also on the subject of public-private partnerships, on the evaluation of those that existed and, through this assessment, on the definition of a policy for the future. As everyone knows, the evaluation of the model of public-private partnership in health, carried out, moreover, by the Health Regulatory Entity itself, which also made these deliberations which today have provoked so many observations in this House, was not conclusive in relation to the value or the lesser unequivocal value of the model of public-private partnership. I would also point out that, when compared to public management with the management of private partners at a particularly difficult time in our collective life, it would be expected that they would find more advantages in private management and that it was not possible to identify them specifically. Having said that, what you know, this government has decided, for each of the public-private health partnerships, whose decision-making time for renewal or non-renewal was approaching, to carry out the appropriate technical studies and, on the basis of them, to take a decision. It was so in Cascais, it was so in Braga and it will also be so, as it can not fail to be, in Vila Franca de Xira and in Loures. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we say is unequivocal: our preference is for public management. That is why, even today, after the choice to internalize the public-private partnership of Braga, we resolve, in the Council of Ministers, the appointment of the board of directors of this new entity. Exactly because we honour this commitment that we will continue to say that our priority is the patients and, as such, in any management model, whether public or private, patients of the National Health Service, I would say even more, patients of the National Health Service cannot be hospitalized under inhuman conditions, under outraged conditions, under conditions which we cannot deserve any kind of complacency. That is why, with regard to the public-private partnership of Vila Franca de Xira, we have made the choice to evaluate what has already determined these news that have become public, following the deliberations of the Health Regulatory Entity. That is why we are working with the respective ARS (Regional Health Administration ) to understand what we also wonder if it was an exceptional, temporary situation or if it was a more permanent situation founded, for example, in a lower adequacy of the management contract itself. Let me now refer to the news that has come to the public regarding the public-private partnership of Cascais and that, of course, it is a manipulation of indicators, an apparent one, an indexed manipulation of indicators, which is unacceptable and that in any public or private entity is unbearable and may even constitute a crime and therefore have to have an assessment in its own place, regardless of what may mean in our relationship with the partner or in our deeper evaluation of this model. The same applies to the issue of promiscuity, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, of the accumulation of functions which may be considered irregular and of the inevitable consequences. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again that our preference on this subject is clear, it goes through public management, we have always said it, we have never retreated, and, within our preference, what we have to guarantee is that no hospital that is currently being managed in another model is internalized or has a similar option, conditioning the possible quality of care being provided. Therefore, we cannot, in fact, assume a solution that is going to undermine the provision of health care in any way. I also address another theme that was raised here, that of the investment or lack of it in the National Health Service. The human resources we have hired for the National Health Service are in the eyes of everyone, there are various information sites where the various entities register their contracts, their number of effective... But there are more than that number of effective: there is, in fact, a better work in the SNS that, although not entirely in view of all those who work in it, is a sense in each one's heart, insofar as it was possible to rest hours of work, it was possible to restore increases for extraordinary work, it was possible to resume progress in careers and it was possible already to review a set of careers. Therefore, it is in this line that we will continue to work, despite the fact that we know that in many cases it is not possible to move forward as quickly as professionals would like in what is the dignity of the work of the SNS. But we must also continue to insist on improving the productivity of the SNS and improving the performance of our institutions, our professionals, and we are sure to be able to count on them for it. I still wanted to leave two notes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u99	Attention to time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u100	One, concerning the application for the hiring of INEM technicians, is under consideration the request for the hiring of 200 technicians. Another, concerning what Mrs Sara Madruga said about Madeira's hospital. In fact, the investment was approved in Council of Ministers Resolution, I have already said on this subject, I regret that the President of the Regional Government did not like the answer and considered that there was a casting problem here. For me, the health of Portuguese is much more than a casting, than a paper, than a cast. I'm sorry! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u101	We're going into the second round of questions. To that end, Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u102	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is undeniable that in the last four years the government's bad political options have had a very negative impact on all units of the National Health Service. in the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center, these evidences are becoming clearer and the episodes are becoming more difficult and frequent. The Prime Minister, in an election campaign, stated that « contrary to what they wanted, the devil did not come». This could even have his grace if the devil hadn't even come. It is true that this time it did not arrive in the form of bankruptcy, as is the zeal of the socialists, but it did come! Unfortunately, he also reached the Viseu region with many faces and one of them is his, Mrs. Minister, with the degradation of the service provided by the Tondela-Viseu Hospital Center. Mrs. Minister, I am not going to talk to you about debts and payment deadlines to suppliers, waiting time in consultations and surgeries or even lack of human resources. These are transversal materials throughout the country and, unfortunately, we are no exception either. I will mention three very specific situations. First, about the cancer center. After so many unpleasant episodes, which I am not going to describe here, tell us, frankly, when, how and how it will be done and what funding is available. Second, on the expansion of the emergency service. After two years of suspension of the competition because of the seizures, tell us exactly when the works begin. Better said and « to the socialist», when the government there will celebrate the launch of the first stone, with two years of delay and another three years for future execution.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u103	All right! [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u104	Finally, about the dissatisfaction of health professionals. There have been successive cases that have become public at the level of human resources dissatisfaction, including doctors and nurses. We know that it is normal to have these types of divergences in the management of the organization of services. We were not used and have become recurrent is that these situations have resulted in the resignation of the leaders and have become public, as still appears in the media today. Tell me, Minister, what has led these competent and dedicated professionals to take such radical positions and publicly express their dissatisfaction? in the past, these positions certainly also occurred, but were resolved between the board of directors and the professionals. Is it then because of the incompetence of this new board of directors? Will it be for lack of equipment? Is it because of the lack of human or financial resources that this happens? Tell us, Minister! It is that these situations, in addition to worrying a lot about the PSD, lead to the loss of confidence on the part of populations in an institution that has been a reference in the region and in the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u105	Mrs Carla Cruz from the PCP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Minister said that health professionals are essential for the functioning of the National Health Service. We recognize that they are fundamental, as we recognize the advances that the Minister has mentioned from the rostrum. But, Madam Minister, there are still problems that cause demotivatement and exhaustion of professionals themselves. The career was published for senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and nurses, but they are careers that do not value or safeguard the rights of these professionals. The Government protects decisions on improving the working conditions of doctors, including the reduction of normal work in emergency services or the reduction of the lists of family physicians' users, the problems with defrosting careers continue to be solved, and the creation of the career of health assistants is postponed. Mr. Minister, the problems persist because the PS and the Government have not broken with the right-wing policy pursued by successive governments, whether they are PS, PSD and CDS, as regards workers and the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u108	The right-wing policy and the PS Government's option for the accelerated reduction of the budget deficit prevents progress in the rights and appreciation of health professionals. It is clearly necessary to break with the right-wing policy and to advance the hiring of professionals who need, in improving working conditions, solutions for defrosting progressions, in creating the career of medical action auxiliaries. Progress needs to be made in negotiations with doctors, so that their careers are respected and their working conditions improved. Madam Minister, the resolution of these problems and the realization of these just demands cannot be postponed forever. in this sense, I ask: when will the PS government open competitions to hire the professionals who need it? When will the government create the career of medical action assistants? When will it finally solve problems with thawings? When will the government correct the serious aspects of the careers of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and nurses? When are you going to proceed with negotiations with doctors in order to improve their working conditions, ensure their careers and exclusive dedication? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u109	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u110	Mr President, Mrs Minister, I was listening to you carefully and a sentence of your speech occurred to me. He spoke in « more income», « more means », « more careers », « more hospitals», but, Mrs Minister, I have never seen so many unhappy people, so much protest. I have two lists of hospital and hospital dropouts here. Or are they all ungrateful or, indeed, I come to the conclusion that there is one government and two countries: the country of government and the real country, where people are clearly not happy. The Minister spoke of the work done and I really wanted to talk about works. Four budgets later, four years of government, four years of projects, four years after the announcement of new hospitals — the Alentejo centre, Madeira, Eastern Lisbon and Sixal center — what do we have? Zero, Mrs. Minister, zero! With regard to the case of the Sixal hospital, which is paradigmatic, the 2017 State Budget said that it was a priority and that it included a sum of EUR 10 million. In 2018, he no longer said he was a priority nor was he considering any money. In 2019, we only see ads and, moreover, we see the ridicule of repeated visits by the parties that support this government at the first stone. So, Minister, my question is very concrete. I no longer ask you when the hospital of Seixal, I ask you only when the second stone of the hospital of Seixal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u111	Mr António Topa, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u112	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, after the reopening of the emergency service of the hospital of São João da Madeira, which we defend, a similar attitude was expected for several hospitals in the Aveiro district serving populations in higher numbers, with resolutions adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. The situation point in relation to the hospitals of the Aveiro district is the one to describe. As for the reopening of the basic emergency service, with a resolution approved in the Assembly of the Republic, and regulation of the operating block of the Ovar hospital, having said the Secretary of State of Health, about 10 months ago, which was a reality, everything is postponed with the argument of carrying out new projects regarding the regulation of the operating block and so far nothing has been done. As for the reopening of the basic emergency service of the hospital of Estarreja, everything postponed and nothing done. As for the reopening of the basic emergency service of the Espinho hospital, resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic long ago, all postponed and nothing done. As for the Oliveira hospital in Azemés, with physical possibilities to have the largest number of beds serving as support and rearguard to decongest the health services of the region, he did not have any attention from the government for this to happen. Nothing has been done! As for the Aveiro district hospital, which has new problems of functioning, in particular, of human and physical resources to host services, is perhaps the country district hospital operating under worse conditions. We have seen many promises that the problem will be solved, particularly with regard to enlargement. Four years have passed and nothing has been done! Finally, as for the hospital of Santa Maria da Feira, at the beginning of the term of office everything was prepared to begin the work of expanding the urgency of the hospital, and there are ways to do so. The urgency of the hospital of Santa Maria da Feira has no size for the population of the region that serves, about 350 000 inhabitants, so the urgency is the biggest problem of the hospital and without its resolution the hospital provides a bad service. With the argument of the need for a new project, the work continues to be postponed and nothing has been done! In other words, hospital services in Aveiro district have great problems and during this legislature nothing has been resolved, everything has been postponed, sometimes with the argument of the need for new projects. The cuts in investment in hospital services have forced it and those who suffer are people. As a result of the reprogramming of the European funds for the health sector, the Centre region was more than EUR 30 million. of these 30 million, 80% were attributed to Coimbra, the remaining 20% were attributed to Aveiro and Viseu, the other municipalities zero. Mr Minister, you ask yourself: what were the criteria used for choosing investments? I would like you to answer my questions about the hospitals in Aveiro district and the reprogramming of investments to the Centre region. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u113	Mr João Dias, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Ms. Minister of Health, the CFP has called attention to the difficulties of financing the SNS and has denounced the investment needs. Users wait and despair for months at a time, harming their health conditions, by a simple ultrasound, by a CT scan, or by a magnetic resonance imaging. with regard to waiting times for, for example, an orthopedic consultation at the Algarve Hospital Center is 1047 days or an otorrin consultation at the Cova da Beira Hospital Center is 467 days. There are nearly 800,000 non-medical and family nurse users. Investment in new hospital units, such as the construction of new hospitals in Évora, Seixal, Gaia, Barcelos, Algarve, or even the second phase of the Beja hospital, for which the Government did not take effective measures for its implementation. There are primary health care units that operate in buildings that do not even allow access to people with reduced mobility and there are health extensions closed due to lack of works. Mrs. Minister, we are talking about difficulties in access to the most basic right, which is the protection of health, individual and collective. It is true that some progress has been made, but enormous difficulties still persist, for which this government could and should have done more. The government must break with the right-wing policy for health and strengthen the SNS. [[PSD protests.]] We cannot stop condemning the demagogic and cynical stance of the PSD and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u115	Precisely!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u116	... that, in the Government of Steps Rabbit, Doors and Crystals, probably the Government that most harmed the SNS and the rights of Portuguese in access to health, now regret a situation in which they have heavy responsibilities. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. the Minister, we must move forward and respond to the cries of the Portuguese people asking for an SNS to ensure general, universal and free health care. It is necessary to strengthen your health rights and improve the network of health care units and reduce and combat scandalous waiting lists for consultations, surgeries and treatments. There is no alternative but to bet on the provision of quality health care and strengthen the SNS. Mr. Minister, do you need concrete answers, so I ask you: doctor and family nurse for when? For when is the investment strengthened in the modernization of SNS equipment? When will the government implement measures to strengthen SNS in access to health? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u117	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister of Health, I am bringing you a question today — it is not the first time I ask you, as is not the first time I do it to a Minister of Health, not so little to a Minister of Finance, who, curiously, is now to whom we have to ask many of the questions, and the subject is not surprising, about the hospital of São João and about the construction of the pediatric wing of the hospital São João, of the whole pediatric wing and not only about the treatment of chemotherapy, although these are particularly worrying. The pediatric wing of the hospital of São João, as in fact other specialties, but above all this, works in containers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u119	It was already working when you were in the government! You didn't get angry? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u120	This problem is old, it is true, but the action of this government in relation to this old problem was to bring it back to exactly the point of departure. The Government was always quite concerned to see whether the solution to the problem was public or private, or whether it had private contributions or whether it was only public than to find a solution that was fast and that would respond to children's problems. And it was so, Mrs. Minister, that this problem literally went back to the point of departure. When we discussed this matter in the plenary, I heard that the blame was on the previous government — in fact, this is more or less the explanation I hear for almost everything... [[PS protests.]] ...and even, you know, God, what for! Is that what you're talking about? — what does not surprise me, and then in a second phase — and that is the stage which leads me to the question — that the blame was for public procurement. [[PS protests.]] I remember last year having discussed this and the government said that it was the fault of the public contract and that, he said, "we can't do anything, because now the public contest takes a year, or more." At the time, Parliament passed legislation to exempt public procurement. at the time, when we had this discussion last year, we talked until the work was on the ground in January this year, January 2019. Madam Minister, because we are almost in June 2019 and the work will be in many places but physically is not strictly anywhere, and because Mr. Secretary of State has already spoken about this and, as far as I understand it, committed to a work on the ground this year, I would like you to confirm whether it is indeed this year that the work goes to the ground, how long will it take the new pediatric wing to be built and when it is finally that children can stop being treated in containers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u121	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions you have raised. We then start with the pediatric wing of the hospital of São João or the integrated pediatric hospital. I don't like making any commitments I can't fulfill. So from the beginning of my duties, I have always tried to say what difficulties I was facing and to keep up with what was going to evolve from the situation. That is why, with particular satisfaction today, I can say that tomorrow, according to the information of Mr. President of the Board of Directors, the boys who are receiving treatment in the area of pediatric cancer will pass into the main building of the hospital centre of São João. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's also why I can say, with particular satisfaction...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u123	I could have announced some time ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u124	It's been announced a long time ago. But, as I was saying, it is with particular satisfaction that I can say that everything I announced I did. In particular, I complied with what I signed in 2017 in a memorandum, which has often been quoted, in which several parties took the effort to channel funding for the possibility of materializing this work of the pediatric wing of the hospital of São João. It was therefore also that, following the resolution of the decision last year, to review the project, a team from the hospital of São João carried out it until April this year, which allows us to have a revised project which is currently being worked out for the definition of transparency criteria that allow the fulfilment of the decision of this House to launch the procedure through direct adjustment, however, with respect for the main principles of public procurement, which we have achieved the return of the land by the association O Joãozinho because, in fact, we do not care who builds, although we know well what our responsibilities as a State are and, as Mr Secretary said, we count that, before the end of the year, the work is on the ground and the deadline for the work is, as we all know, 24 months. Therefore, in relation to this situation, what we have sought is to study, plan, inform and comply. And that's what we're doing about all the other investment projects that take place through this country outside, namely the emergency service and the oncological center of Viseu hospital. in fact, it is not possible to have an oncological centre that does not have technical sustainability, which is not based on what is technical planning and will certainly not make investments that have no technical indication. For that, in fact, they cannot count on this Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u125	So why did they announce it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u126	You can count on this Minister of Health to do what is announced, which is the installation of a linear accelerator, is the realization of two bunkers and is the possibility of treating Viseu patients better without needing to leave Viseu.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u127	So why did they announce it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u128	So we will continue to use this methodology in all other investments we have to face.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u129	What methodology? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u130	I would also like to tell you about the issues of hiring and careers in the National Health Service, since they were raised, without forgetting that the intervention at the hospital of the Sixal is going on, is still in the competition phase for project development and without project it is not possible, yet, to do public works. Returning to the question of human resources and health professionals in the National Health Service, about the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, it must be said that it was this government that, after 18 years of a career that was manifestly out of line with what was the reality of training in this area, materialized a new career. It was also this government that published the pay table and the transition table, which allow the passage of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians to this career. Therefore, it was this government that allowed this professional group, which, until very recently, had as a starting salary the €1020, to have as any other licensor, in the professional sector, an entry salary of €1200. Regarding the nursing career, it is known the effort of approximation between the positions of the government and those of the trade union structures in this professional area: the effort in building a career with three categories, which has not only the basic nurse, but also the specialist nurse and the manager; the effort to assign a remuneration supplement since January 2018 and the effort, which I have already told you, of retroactive payment of this remuneration supplement for the Sr. Nurses who were not properly identified in the lists we initially received; and the effort that will continue to be that of the implementation of the new career, recently published in the Journal of the Republic, which will enter into force after tomorrow. With regard to medical workers, it is worth reminding the honourable Members. Members who would like to provide optimal conditions for our workers, but it is not possible to neglect the purpose of assigning a family doctor to all Portuguese, without which it is not possible to begin to reduce user lists. It is not possible to be mistaken about the still great centrality that the emergency service has in the organization of our National Health Service and, therefore, we cannot reduce the normal hours of work dedicated to the emergency service, without first undertaking this organization. As much as it costs us, urgency is still one of the main doors our citizens are looking for.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u131	Attention to time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u132	As for the questions about the salaries that have been raised to us, I would like to say to the ladies and gentlemen. Members that one of the medical unions presented a proposal for a wage table beginning in the 4284, 60 €. at this time, the National Health Service will probably not have the conditions to pay these salaries without more. I would also like to point out to you that it is our intention to start working immediately with health professionals in the medical profession to evaluate new remuneration models that can serve the future that we all want to build. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u133	Let's move on to the last round of questions. For the first request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u134	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. On 13 May the Prime Minister stated in this Chamber that in response to a question addressed to him by the President of the PSD Parliamentary Group, and after recognizing, firstly, that he did not know how to respond, that he would naturally ask the Minister for Health to do so. The Prime Minister's reply was as follows: "The indication of the Minister of Health is that the debt to firefighters is paid". However, still this week, the President of the Firearms League said: "It is not fair that the Minister of Health has deceived Mr. Prime Minister by saying that they have already paid firefighters what they owe them. It's a lie! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The Ministry owes firefighters more than EUR 35 million for the transport service of patients that they do every day. Confronted with these statements, the Office of V.E.A. stated that «debts are being progressively paid ». This means, in good Portuguese, that they are not paid. On the question that the PSD Parliamentary Group had the opportunity to address it on 14, i.e. on the day following this debate, you have not said anything so far. And you can't say, Mrs. Minister, because you know, as well as I do, that you can't say. For example, I myself checked this week that only the 23 companies in the Guard district the Ministry of Health should, in non-emergency transport provided to patients through the ULS (local health unit), about 1 million and 500 thousand euros, i.e. four to five months late. But it must be more, Mrs. Minister : it must still be in transport to the IPO, to the HUC (Hospitals of the University of Coimbra) and to the CHUC ( Hospital Center and University of Coimbra ) and owe to the same 23 corporations in my district more than 600 thousand euros. Here, late billing goes beyond, in many cases, more than one year. And this, of course, has an impact on the rest of the country. Of course, firefighters' associations are on the verge of ruin and lack of money in these houses—especially now, with the summer even coming—to pay for fuel. Of course, this compromises relief — it is the President of the League who says so, not me — to the populations and especially to the patients in need of transport. Madam Minister, I draw two conclusions: or you lied to the Prime Minister, leading him to make false statements to the Assembly of the Republic, or the Prime Minister lied when you said that the Minister of Health gave you a different information than he said here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u135	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u136	So I should like to ask you, Minister : Have you already made your seat available to the Prime Minister? If you have not done so, I ask you: how does you agree to be part of a government that thus disqualifies your ministers and leads this Parliament? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u137	Mrs Teresa Caeiro from the CDS has the floor also to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u138	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I have a great difficulty in understanding which country VV. Ex. we live. We should remember what was said by the Prime Minister in the 2017 Christmas message when he said that we had freed ourselves from austerity. Now, how does the Minister explain that, having ended austerity, there has never been such a social challenge, so many strikes and so many resignations in the area of health? The strikes and the challenge fired in such a way that they are infinitely and indisputably superior to the challenge and to the strikes we witnessed during the time of the troika. More: affects the whole spectrum of the medical area, because we talk about doctors, nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, medical action assistants and even administrative staff. Everyone's unhappy! All of them! Even prominent socialists say that the National Health Service is in a dire situation. As the Minister knows, the resignations have been successive, from north to south of the country, at the level of team heads, service directors, hospital boards, and the most serious is the fact that the Government has systematically come to devalue all these resignations. Clinical safety is also at stake. What I ask you, of course, is this: what is the government doing to restore clinical safety in the SNS? Then, returning to the liberation of austerity announced by the Prime Minister, investment in health has not existed. You may say so, but there is no way to override the reality that everyone knows: announcements yes, but actual investment none. I will only give you an example : the implementation of public investment in 2017 was 58 % and 44 % in 2018, in a negative deviation of EUR 170 million. In order to aggravate all of this, in addition to the lack of investment, the injury in 2018 was EUR 3, 6 billion. Only to have an idea, this value is seven times that of the budget for culture. Mrs. Minister, no more ads. By the end of the legislature, they were already obliged to have more work done.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u139	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u140	You're absolutely right, Mr. President. I'll be done. There is one question that I can never stop putting to you, Mrs. Minister, as I have done to all your predecessors: which is the VV strategy. Ex. for mental health? What's been done? This is the great challenge of the 21st century. We are talking about a cross-sectional area that, above all, affects the elderly, through dementias, as well as families that have nowhere to leave their families, who have no one to care for them and who often have to give up their own employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u141	Come on, Mrs. Deputy! You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u142	You're absolutely right, Mr. President. It's abuse. Thank you very much. I'm done. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u143	Also for a request for clarification, Mr José António Silva, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u144	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, who hears the Minister and the PS Health Coordinator, my friend Antonio Sales, thinks that there are no health problems, but the problems are getting more and more. Mrs. Minister, even less than a week ago, the municips of the municipality of Porto de Mós, in Leiria, manifested themselves against the lack of doctors in the municipality. There are three frequencies in which, for more than three months, there is no single doctor and where people with difficulty of mobility live, with parks economic resources and aged. To get a recipe, you have to travel 10 km, 15 km or 5 km taxi to get it. This population does not claim much, Mrs. Minister, only asks for a doctor. For when is the satisfaction of this claim? Mr. Minister, the former Government has launched an investment plan to eradicate hepatitis C in our country. By 2015, there were 15,000 treated patients. It has happened that the current government has changed the financing model, which has ceased to be centralized in the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) since 2018, and the fact is that since then complaints have occurred that patients with hepatitis C take months, sometimes half a year to be treated. The director of the National Program for Viral Hepatitis, Dr. Isabel Aldir, said that, on average, since the doctor makes the request until the patient starts treatment two months ago. What I ask you is very simple, Minister : can the Government guarantee that the waiting time for these patients will be less than two months? Can you assure us, Minister, that all hospitals in the National Health Service where treatment for hepatitis C is administered have not ceased to do so since January 2019? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u145	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Lima, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u146	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, of course, that the Socialist Party and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group could not stop associating themselves with the topic and topic of the new pediatric wing of the hospital of São João, in Porto. We have listened very carefully to the two speeches that addressed this matter, that of Mrs Cecilia Meireles and that of Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, who spoke on the subject as if it were not yesterday, who spoke on the subject as if they had begun with us,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... who spoke on the matter as if they had not opened two stones and had not left the work in the middle, who spoke on the matter as if their responsibility was zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u147	It's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u148	No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, your responsibility is a lot, and this government, since you put your hand on the mass, passes the expression, has begun to move on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u149	Yes, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u150	Sir, you'll listen to me! The chronological process of the pediatric wing has been and has been functioning, as the Minister has given us notice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u151	And before Mrs. Minister, there's no responsibility?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u152	Before the Minister was your government! [[PSD Member Protests Ricardo Baptista Leite.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u153	Listen! Listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u154	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u155	The grounds are already in the possession of the University Hospital Center of São João. When these lands were in your possession, in the possession of an association, there was no concern on your part about whether or not they had money for the work. The architecture project was delivered in April and is under review and must end at the end of June.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u156	That's right! Four years later! They didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u157	All this had already been said by the Minister during many of her speeches, so all the work on this subject, which is very expensive and very expensive to this government, is being done, as the Minister has already said. But we don't stay here as far as the Hospital de São João is concerned. On May 28th, São João began the surgery program in an outpatient clinic for cardiothoracic surgery. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the neurosurgery service, revoked at the forefront of excellence, started half a dozen days ago too, something you didn't do. on May 13, pediatric intensive care was reinforced with intensive care units. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I could give you more examples here. Isn't everything? Do we want more? Obviously, we want more and, therefore, the Portuguese have already said, last Sunday, and will certainly say very briefly, that they are with the Government of the Socialist Party, who are with the Socialist Party, who is solving their problems. That is how the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party and the Government know to be in politics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can also quote the case of the Vouga hospital in the Aveiro district, about which Mr.António Topa spoke. Vouga hospital was the hospital that did the most in telemedicine with an impact on pediatrics. This is very important and it is a sign of the work being done. We can't just list negative things. There are negative things, but they come from your time! Much work has been done, so thank you very much, Minister. [[Rice and protest from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] And continue with the process of the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, as you have done, because users and the whole district will support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u158	To request clarification from the Minister, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Minister, the report of the Court of Auditors found that the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ), in 2016, at the time when it was chaired by V. Exa, proceeded — and I quote — « to the administrative elimination of applications with high seniority, distorting the reported performance indicators ». I repeat : according to this report, ACSS has failed performance indicators! According to Mr Bastonário of the Medical Order, there were requests for consultations that were eliminated. I ask the Minister if this is true. Mr Minister, within this government, you have adopted ideological extremism, and you have found that the state can do everything. And then what happened? The state could do everything, but this was the government that has less invested in health since we were in democracy. They invested less than the Rabbit Pass Government in the time of austerity. And what is the result? More people go to private. And who goes to private? Who has money and can pay for private consultations. So when you say that you are defending public service, you are not actually defending it. You're being a real handy for private insurers! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u160	That's what the PSD was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u161	It is, in fact, to defend the public service—for those who said that the state wanted to do everything—that was to invest in that public service!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u162	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u163	They didn't. They excluded the non-profit social sector, the mercys, because they wanted to do it. And now what happens? They suffer people, on the waiting lists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u165	...and you, in fact, do very little, in the face of what you should do! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u166	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I answer the issue of debts to fire companies. I begin by distinguishing which debts need to be perceived considering three aspects: debt stock, overdue debt and late payments, as is obvious. [[PSD protests.]] The debt stock is the total debt stock. currently, if a fire corporation is doing a transport, it is generating a expense that will be spent by the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u168	It's just a small notion of management!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u169	Management? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u170	Debt overdue is the one that has already reached its payment deadline, and late payments are those that already have more than 90 days over the payment period. What I said about this subject... [[PSD protests.]] ... and that it has been transmitted very recently by the Central Health System Administration in response to Mr. President of the National Association of Professional Firefighters, is that the debt stock has been reduced relative to the period of one year and that at the moment the late payments do not exist because they have been resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u171	What about the 500 million? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u172	Which does not mean that there are still no questions. [[PSD protests.]] Late payments, as I have synthesized, are somewhat different from overdue debt, amounts that are in dispute and amounts that are not recognised by hospitals. Having said this, my place is, of course, always at the disposal of Mr. Prime Minister. Regarding the issue of mental health, in fact few subjects deserve such great attention and have raised so much attention, especially from the World Health Organization, such as this one. Even very recently, in 72, the World Health Assembly, in which we had the opportunity to participate, discussed international support for the definition of mental health policies, mental patients who are subject to compulsive hospitalization measures, and the need to ensure that there is no physical restraint or other measures that are inappropriate, according to basic human rights. We have worked in this area, in the development of Community support, through liaison psychiatry and through crisis management offices.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u173	Which management? Oh, my God! There's no management!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u174	We recognize that they are small steps towards an area that has been systematically the victim of stigma and of little social recognition. There is no doubt that this is one of the areas where we will have to invest most in the future. As for the question that I have been asked about the lack of family doctors in some areas of the country, I remember what I have already said: that, at this time, a competition is taking place for the placement of 398 new specialists in general and family medicine and that the distribution of vacancies for these 398 potential candidates took into account the greatest deficiencies and the fact that they are located, as is known, in the area of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo, in some areas of the central region, in Alentejo and Algarve. That is why the distribution of the vacancy map took into account the need to guarantee these Portuguese people the same rights that are guaranteed to other Portuguese people, including those in the North of the country, who, in this respect, have managed to have better coverage. We are working on this, we know that the previous competitions in this area have significant retention rates and if we actually manage to retain these young specialists in the National Health Service, we will certainly be able to improve our coverage levels in this area and approach us more than the goal of assigning a family doctor to each Portuguese. They asked me, too, and I cannot fail to take advantage of these short final seconds to answer that — what was the strategy. The strategy we have is very simple:... [[PSD protests.]] ... is the strengthening of the National Health Service, the strengthening of public services, in the certainty that the National Health Service is the best response that the Portuguese have at their disposal irrespective of the financial means to help themselves from other alternatives. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, no doubt, we will continue to affirm this path and to reject, clearly and unequivocally, any comment that is made on adultery of any type of listings and on any manipulation or forgery of lists of waiting times. It has often been argued that this circumstance is linked to the need to improve the access indicators and that it had the clear involvement of doctors throughout our country and the coordinator of the access management unit, ACSS, which is itself a professional of great nail and high responsibility, and that would never deal with situations like those we have been violently accused of. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u175	We are now moving to the stage of intervention. In view of the available times in the panel, I would say that we have moved to possible interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u176	Mr President, Mrs Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members: The PSD marked this debate and said in the press that it had marked this debate because the National Health Service needed an emergency plan. We didn't hear any proposal, no one else, from the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u177	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u178	... for such an emergency plan. We do not even know what they mean by this urgency plan that came to debate in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u179	It's natural! There's no problem for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u180	We know what this plan is not. We know that, for example, the PSD emergency plan is certainly not due to the appreciation of professionals. It is that when we voted here proposals from the Left Block for the opening of tenders for the hiring of psychologists, they abstained; when we voted proposals from the Left Block for the opening of tenders for the hiring of nutritionists, they abstained; when we voted proposals from the Left Block for the accounting of the time of the superior technical nurses for diagnosis and therapy, to lighten their career, they abstained, they did not want to know; when we voted proposals for the creation and regulation of the career of health assistant technicians, they did not want to know either. We also know that this PSD emergency plan does not go through investment. We have already voted on proposals from the Left Block for the creation of a multi-annual investment plan and you voted against it! We voted here for proposals from the Left Block to increase INEM's revenue and you voted against it! We have voted here proposals from the Left Block to exempt the National Health Service from the familiar law of commitments, and how the Members voted. Ladies and gentlemen? Against!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u181	That's management!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u182	So what is left of this PSD emergency plan? The privatization of the National Health Service, as it is known.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u183	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u184	You signed joint positions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u185	In fact, from this point of view we should even value the transparency of the PSD, because in this document, which still maintains public, it is clear: the proposal, the PSD emergency plan, is to make the National Health Service a huge public-private partnership. It is not by chance that the whole debate went without talking about the manipulation of indicators in Cascais, not to mention the hospitalization in dining rooms in the public-private partnership of Vila Franca de Xira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u186	Isn't that SNS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u187	...or not to mention promiscuity in Loures' public-private partnership.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u188	I thought that was SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u189	A whole debate and not a word to speak of the shame that public-private partnerships are. But it is also not by chance that they decided to extend their hand to the PS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u190	Extending your hand? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u191	...trying to make an alliance to save public-private partnerships. I don't know if they're still imbued with that spirit that passed through the European elections, such an alliance between Liberals and people of the Socialist Party, but they stretched out their hand here...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u192	And what do you guys extend? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u193	...to save public-private partnerships, to save the health business. I believe that, at the end of this debate, what matters is what the PS will respond to all this. What will the Socialist Party decide to do, knowing that tomorrow there are very important votes on the Health Basics Act? We know that the Socialist Party has retreated to public-private partnerships and admitted them back, we know that the Socialist Party has retreated to the clear separation between the public sector and the private sector and has again admitted greater promiscuity between sectors, but we also know that there is still time. Until tomorrow afternoon, when the votes on the Basic Law are held, there is still time. There is time to go back to the way we were doing, before the Socialist Party retreated and before they extended their hands to defend themselves and save public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u195	We have heard the Minister — the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party have heard, too, certainly, that the Socialist Party and the Government have always been very clear and that the future of public-private partnerships would be decided by evaluation. And we heard the Minister say, soon thereafter, that it is true that the Health Regulatory Entity has made this assessment and has come to the conclusion that there is no difference between public management and management made in public-private partnership. But, we now know, this evaluation was made based on manipulated indicators. It was based on false indicators, such as in Cascais ; based on manipulated indicators, such as in Cascais ; with public managers who were there as representatives of the contracting public entity and who didn't see anything that was happening—they faked choices, they didn't see anything; they falsified clinical records, they didn't see anything. Therefore, the only conclusion to be drawn is that, really, public-private looks are not a more-value for users, they are not a more-value for the National Health Service and they must end. If the future of public-private partnerships, as the Socialist Party defends and as the Government defends, depends on the evaluation of public-private partnerships, there are the facts that show what should happen to public-private partnerships.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u197	What must happen is very simple: they must end. Do we want to continue with situations like the one that happens in Cascais? No, we don't. So it ends with the public-private partnership. Do we want to continue with situations like the one that happens in Vila Franca de Xira? No, we don't. So it ends with the public-private partnership. Tomorrow we have this opportunity to decide, by voting on the Basics Law, what we want: a future where we perpetuate situations such as those in Cascais and Vila Franca de Xira, or a future in which we strengthen the National Health Service. It was important to hear at the end of this debate more than false PSD emergency plans, what the PS will actually do tomorrow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u198	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today has not escaped from its already well-known « the worse, the better ». in a debate as relevant as Portuguese health, it maintained the right line of « the worse, the better ». My expectation, however, was different: it was that they came today to hand in hand and take on the mistakes of the past. I imagined that, after last Sunday's elections, they could come and tell the Portuguese, in this plenary, how they would now contribute to the pursuit of the purpose of safeguarding the right to health protection. But it wasn't like that. This debate began with the PSD, once again today, with a populist attitude and much different from what would be expected from a party which, as Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite said, is in the words "defensor of the SNS", but which, later, in the acts, is exactly at the opposite end. For this debate it would be expected that the PSD would value all the positive points that have already been listed exhaustively here, either by the PS bench or by the government. in these three and a half years, this government has reinvested, has rescued the SNS from a situation that was even of shipwreck, for which you, especially in the times of the troika, pushed it, manifestly and without any kind of smell. Today, we have signs of modernization and recovery. Today, we actually have revealing projects of what this government is looking for and effectively succeeds in advancing the provision of public health care to all Portuguese people. But we're not just rescuing the SNS. No, we are not just rescuing the SNS, we are giving it the quality and improvement of care that it requires and that the Portuguese want, continuously. So I want to tell you that, when we talk about the Health Bases Law, we talk about a fundamental instrument to continue this work. For this reason the Socialist Party, throughout the debate of the Health Bases Act, stood with the notion that it would enable all proposed amendments that were intended to build SNS, strengthen SNS, give dynamics to the SNS. For this reason we have approved proposals from the PSD, the Left Block, the PCP, and others that we will have to approve tomorrow. But still, the PSD did not change its position, crystallized, it was unable to take a step. What's important to say is yes, if the gentlemen. Members say, as they claim, that they have made their history to defend the SNS, even though they have never voted anything that has to do with the real construction of the SNS in this House, unless the State should continue to sponsor the development of the privates—yes, that is your mark for the SNS—then say now, because it is time to know, on which side of history they want to stay and on which side of history they want to contribute and change to a law of the SNS that is truly modern and that meets the challenges it faces today: robustness, refinancing and quality of care to the Portuguese, on behalf of a dignified health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u200	Mr Carla Cruz, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : PSD and CDS once again, during this debate, brought false concerns about users, false concerns about professionals and false concerns about the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u202	You're the only ones who care! You are the faithful depositors of the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u203	What they tried to do was to ease their enormous responsibilities, but above all, to try to hide their real intentions and the real intentions are not to defend the National Health Service, they are not to defend the users, they are not to defend the professionals. Its real intentions are to destroy public response, continue promiscuity between public, social and private sectors, to easily destroy the SNS and easily privatize it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u204	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u205	In fact, all SDP and CDS interventions were performed with this aim. from the PCP, what we brought were real problems. These are problems that exist, but we have advanced here with the necessary solutions, and there are many, to solve the problems of access, the problems of professionals and the strengthening of the National Health Service. And there's only one word for you to be able to do that, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Government members: strengthen it. We cannot continue to say that the National Health Service is a priority, it is important to strengthen it. For this there must be clear measures at the level of investment, financing and strengthening of professionals, because without this there is truly no universal, general and free National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u206	Your time is up, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u207	... — I do finish, Mr President — and it is very clear that only public management guarantees this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to move to the closing stage of this request. To that end, Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health and other members of the Government: The SNS faces a terrible trial. Victim of a government whose choice, as deliberate as pernicious, was to abdicate from investing in equipment, ignoring the brutal growth of waiting lists and surrendering itself to indicators of care offer that call into question human dignity and the most elementary access to health, suffers the risk, such as Correia de Campos — yes, Correia de Campos, the former Minister of Governments of the Socialist Party — of becoming a caricature, compared to what their founding fathers dreamed. And those are the ones—think! — whose correct verb and the round rhetoric echoes so many times in this House in favor of the National Health Service that assume the paradox, although unexpected, the role of leading to an unprecedented crisis, to a climate of almost civil war, in which grotesque episodes of lack of assistance pile up, cease to be the exception and turn sadly into the rule. This failure always penalizes the poorest, the most fragile, the elderly. What's the point of taking over more €10 or €15 per month when your most precious asset, your health, is set aside by a consultation that in many cases takes too many cases a year or more to take place? Or a surgery that doesn't respect the maximum guaranteed times? What is paid in the form of suffering and in life, in a picture that is repeated and aggravated every day, is repugnant to everyone, but whose incessant repetition makes it a new normal. And these, the weakest, the poorest, cannot run to the private, cannot save themselves from the flood and, in silence, are stripped of their rights, raped in their dignity, defeated in their struggle, without even being able to fight for themselves or for their own. What human dignity resists, that humane outline is perpetuated when, in the Algarve, patients with already diagnosed cancer wait endless months for the state to release a few pounds of €200 so that they can obtain the results of the analyses they have made and start treatment, while the relentless disease spreads, indifferent to the cruelest bureaucracy, the lack of good sense and the crime that it is to abandon people like this? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u210	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u211	What human dignity resists when those responsible recognize that for months the radiotherapy equipment at the Hospital de São João was almost daily, surely delaying thousands of treatments and diminishing the life expectancy of these patients? Or when in hospital pharmacies the medications for chronic patients enter into rupture and the IPO, a pillar of the SNS, subjugates in the face of lack of investment and failure to respond? This is the faithful, but sinister portrait of the cruel dehumanization of the SNS, which drags entire families to screams of despair and pain because they cannot give theirs a conditional treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u212	Four years late!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u213	When he acts as he has been acting, the state can sometimes be almost as impious as the disease. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who say it is not the PSD, is the Court of Auditors, when it denounces the degradation of patients' access to consultations and surgeries, it is the Health Regulatory Entity, which has still released a report this month in which it concludes that waiting times for consultations and surgeries in the SNS have not stopped increasing. Ideology wins reality in here, but it loses out... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u214	... because reality here is a discussion with achievements and deceptions, letters and scenes about the principles of the SNS, in which the political forces that support the government entertain themselves so that they don't have to say anything about what's going on out there. Out there is real life, it does not matter whether public or private, it is interested in serving, healing, solving, progressing, putting the patient at the center of decisions, all that the government and this majority have not done! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u215	Have shame! Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u216	The National Health Service needs more attention, more care, from institutions providing health care with greater autonomy and the Portuguese deserve a health system that is truly at its service, precisely those who need it most.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u217	Only now did you remember that? Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u218	The PSD advocates an inclusive, complete health system in which people are truly the center of health policies. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Santos.]] We don't bring cases here. You're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u219	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u220	We have brought patterns of behavior that have long ceased to be cases, have long ceased to be the exception to be the new normal, and this new normal is an incredible and unbelievable failure, it is a defeat and degradation of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u221	The defeat was on Sunday!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u222	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u223	We hope you see the light. We believe in a more inclusive service that serves everyone. That is what the Portuguese expect of us, but certainly who governs and those who support the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u224	Like the ladies. Members know, we are in the process of closure and for a final intervention, the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u226	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u227	It is to make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u228	On what matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u229	To ask for the distribution of three news where, synthetically, you do the counterpoint... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u230	Madam Member, I am very sorry to you. If it is to ask the Bureau to deliver a document, it will be distributed, but to substantiate the request I cannot continue to give you the floor, interrupting this moment which is a very peculiar moment for the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u231	The basis is to counter the intervention that has been made,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u232	Yeah, but it's not the time, Mrs. Member. It's not the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u233	... by means of documents which the Bureau may distribute. [[PSD and PS Protests and Counter-Protests.]] [[At the moment, PS's Mr António Sales is showing the House news.]] [[Protests from MP Angel War, PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also time to create conditions for the Minister of Health to be heard. [[Pause.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This interpellation has shown again what all Portuguese recognise. It has been shown that, if it is true that the SNS faces difficulties of motivation of its professionals, it is also true that gradually the conditions for improving work in the SNS have been created, with more professionals, more stability and better careers, and that the pride in working in the SNS is a feeling that is far from being erased. Let's stimulate him and distinguish him. It has been shown that, if it is true that the SNS faces difficulties of increasing health costs due to the effect of technological performance/innovation/demographic changes, it is also true that more resources have been allocated to the system and, above all, that the solution for many of our problems also goes through better regulation, better planning and, above all, better top management, intermediate management and teams. Let's give him more autonomy. It has been shown that, if it is true that the SNS faces difficulties of access and waiting times, it is also true that they have been compensated for a strengthening of resources whose efficiency and productivity of management it is up to us all to improve. It is noteworthy that these difficulties are comparable to those of other health systems of identical matrix, as recently demonstrated by the Euro Health Consumer Index 2018, and from countries such as Norway, Denmark, Finland or Sweden. But we do not comply: we will work to fulfill what we promise and ensure that the TMRGs are effectively respected, as we have worked to fulfill the recovery of what was the surgical strike and today, proudly, we can say that we have succeeded. We will also work on the new dimensions of access, extending the offer of home hospitalization, which is already in 16 hospitals; extending the offer of continuous care beds, which has already opened 150 beds, only this year, and will count, from next week, with the unit of São Roque, at Hospital Pulido Valente, in Lisbon ; extending the way we reach the Portuguese and Portuguese, with telehealth. This explanation has been shown, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in 2019, the SNS has the greatest working force ever and the highest budget allocation ever, that the SNS can and should do more and better and that this is certainly a responsibility to which we do not steal and for which we are sure to be able to count on many. The health area has not failed, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! SNS did not fail, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! And unlike others, whose plan is quite different from ours, the only plan we have is to strengthen and modernize the SNS. We don't align in demagogy. The voters, by the way, don't either. So my last words, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to speak about the future, a future that goes through a new health-based law, because we continue to believe that the proposal we have tabled is for a progressive law and that the Portuguese would not forgive us for wasting this opportunity, a future that goes through the design of a new national health plan — talking about strategy is a new national health plan for the period 2020 - 2024, whose terms of reference were requested from the National Health Council and which should be delivered in the short term — a future that passes through policies because we have also been struck at the international level. I would like to stress that the Member States of the World Health Organization have adopted a resolution which calls for greater transparency in the drug market. This resolution, strongly supported by Portugal, advocates the need for a policy of transparency in price formation that guarantees access to all medicines, vaccines and other health products, insurance, effective and quality. I also recall that this Government's work was intense in presenting resolutions in the United Nations Human Rights Council, in order to frame mental health care in an approach to respect for human rights, eliminating institutionalization and strengthening the provision in the Community paradigm. Finally, I stress the international front in which the country has positioned itself on the health issues of migrants and the assessment made by the High Commissioner for Migration to host 1520 migrants, applicants for international protection within the framework of the European agenda of migration, which concluded that the SNS ensured access to health to 100 % of the migrants received in Portugal. We do the migrants the same as the Portuguese. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I started: we have more resources today, but we need to do more and do better, to be more efficient, to be more productive, to be more sensitive to vulnerability. It is a responsibility for today and for the future, and we do not give up working in this direction and we do not go into crocodile tears. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u236	We have come to the end of this inquiry. Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs. Emília Santos, now has the floor to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u237	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group requests the withdrawal of draft Law No 439 / XIII / 2. a ( PSD ) — Determines the creation within the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs of a national consumer registration portal that adheres to telephone advertising. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-30.u238	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting on Friday, calling for your special attention to the fact that the meeting starts at 9 a.m., I repeat, at 9 a.m. from the first item on the agenda is an urgent debate required by the BE Parliamentary Group on the abolition of urban and suburban public transport. in the second point, we will have another urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the labour market. in the third point, there will be discussion, in general, of the Bill No. 1220 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, ENP ) — A scheme of grants to support the political activity of Members ( amends the Statute of Deputies, approved by Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March, and the Remuneration Statute of holders of political office, approved by Law No 4 / 85 of 9 April ). Finally, on the fourth point, we shall have, as we have done, the vote at the end of the debate. There is nothing else to deal with for today, the session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 30 minutes.]]
