ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we enter the agenda, which is contained in the Request to the Government No 26 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — On the conditions for the exercise of security in Portugal, I ask Secretary Pedro Alves to read the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 1184 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Strengthens transparency in accession contracts ( See Decree-Law No 446 / 85 of 25 October ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1185 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Ensuring the right to payment of food allowance to all workers of a minimum value equal to the Public Administration, which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1186 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — It deepens the legal regime to combat harassment at the workplace by sharing the burden of proof and conferring executive force on the sentencing decisions of the Working Conditions Authority, which falls to 10. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 2073 / XIII / 4 also entered. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the end of the differentiated treatment of workers in Madeira RTP and the harmonization of wage tables and the progressions of such workers before the other centres in the RTP, which falls to 12. the Commission, 2074 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government reassess the environmental license of the National Siderurgia to undertake an epidemiological study, strengthen environmental monitoring and take effective measures to ensure air quality in Paio Pires, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2075 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — by drawing up a situation plan and controlling the density of the population of boars, compensation to farmers affected by the damage caused by this species, measures to protect crops and prevent zoonoses, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2076 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national forest control and eradication plan for invasive species in protected areas which falls to 7. the Commission, 2077 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the immediate removal of all asbestos coverage existing at the High School Architect Oliveira Ferreira, in Arcozelo, Gaia, and requalify its building, 2078 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take measures to protect pharmaceutical professionals by ensuring effective access to compensatory rest in supplementary work, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2079 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Withdrawal of asbestos coverage of the Pêro School of Covilhã, 2080/ XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government better credit conditions for financing forest cleaning, which falls to 7. the Commission, with connection to 11. the Commission, and 2081 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the triangulation of agri-food markets in the outermost regions of Portugal, which falls to 6. the Commission. I must also take account of the withdrawal, by the proposer, of Bill No. 984 / XIII / 3. a (NAP) — Ensure non-prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine to children under 6 years of age. Finally, I have to announce the results of the elections held last Friday. As regards the election of members to the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, the following result was found: 202 Members voted and 132 votes 'yes' were recorded, 58 white votes and 12 null votes. in these terms, candidates, as effective members, Luís Filipe Garrido Pais de Sousa, Cláudia Marta Cruz Santos and Paulo César Rios de Oliveira and, as alternate members, António Carlos Sousa Gomes da Silva Peixoto, Mariana Gomes Machado and Andreia Carina Machado da Silva Neto. As regards the election of a judge to the Constitutional Court, the following result was found: 202 Members were voted, with 148 votes 'yes' recorded, 35 white votes and 19 null votes. in these terms, it is considered elected Professor Mariana Rodrigues Canotilho. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then begin the debate of the Appeal to the Government No 26 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — On the conditions for the exercise of security in Portugal. Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD, addressed the opening statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u4	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister of Justice, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: There is no bad time for good discussions. The safety of people and goods is a very serious matter, which touches us all and accompanies us every hour of every day. The RASI data ( Annual Internal Security Report ), in its appearance, do not inspire particular concern. For this reason, the parties that support the government will praise and say that Portugal is a safe country; we will naturally say that Portugal is a quiet country, perhaps even more than safe, which is not exactly the same thing. however, Portugal is a quiet country not because of the government, but despite the government. [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] Security is another orphaned daughter of captivity, the shameful name of austerity. Without any alarm, we don't need to invent anything, we just need to have memory to realize that, reports aside, we still can't sleep on rest. It is that the State has already been tested several times and has shut down. The Tanks incident, with mysterious and dangerous thefts that no one has been able to disarm, is a sad example of the powder barrel in which we live. We all see and feel as if you are breaking down, active and quickly, the National Health Service, hospital, health center, brick to brick, health center. Blind and irresponsible cuts have thrown the most vulnerable Portuguese to endless waiting lists and put their physical integrity and life in imminent danger. The tragedy of Pedrogão, which was considered unique and unrepeatable, and where 66 people died, repeated four months later, with more than 50 victims. The unwise replacement of chiefs immediately before the fire season marked those dark moments of national mourning. Despite this, everyone hurriedly escaped their responsibilities: a minister was resigned and Dr.António Costa gave the matter for closure. With the time of fire at the door, the government is now playing again with fire, withholding and not handing over to the chambers EUR 50 million for land-cleaning, which, in spite of their suspicion, still awaits to burn and cause a new chaos. Unsatisfied, the government pushed the belly for almost two years alone now, in the final part of the legislature, to move into the organic law of Civil Protection, creating with it the instability that is seen and heard. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u5	What a mix of themes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u6	however, the Prime Minister, instead of hurrying to repair what is wrong, no — none of it! — it has become a victim and has already come, in advance, to apologize with the lady, and I quote, « In this election year, I hope dramatism and I hope to be attacked at every fire that arises», which is like one who says: « What happens will never be the government's fault or responsibility, will always be a creation and an alarvity of the opposition. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice and Minister of Internal Administration: Security is not just about being protected from crimes, especially the most serious ones, such as murders, which cause a great deal of concern and which, last year and already in these three months of 2019, have come up expressly. Security is more than that. Security is we know that we walk on the street without fear that a road collapsing, even after we know that it was signalled at the risk of deforestation, as happened in Borba, where human lives were reaped. Security is we can walk on a CP train ( Portugal trains ) without fear that the engine will fall or the wheel breaks, due to lack of investment and maintenance. Security is that we have ready medical assistance in any accident, road or other, which was not what the occupants of the INEM helicopter (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) who died, whose rescue arrived late and bad hours. Security is we do not have ambulances and helicopters stopped, some for failures and others parked next to the motorway Lisbon-Porto, A1, ready to be delivered, but more to the beirina of the elections, so that the gain will be greater, or even human lives will be lost. Security is not to leave the police authorities at risk, without means, without money, without effect, without reason to perform their duties, as incomprehensiblely happens to the Judicial Police ( PJ ), an entity responsible for investigating the most serious crimes, which at the end of four years, the Minister of Justice, will finally have the 120 inspectors of the competition opened by the previous Government. This is the best tribute Mrs. Minister could make to her predecessor! Security is to take care of cybersecurity seriously, which takes time to do; it is to try, in partnership with the authorities, the rehabilitation of some urban neighborhoods; and it is to prevent in prisons from becoming riots and fistins, with indiscriminate use of drugs, alcohol and mobile phones, without guards nearby. Security is not to allow road fatality and deaths to grow, due to lack of regular preventive actions and effective actions to perform them. Security is to promote concrete actions that prevent violence in sport, a time bomb due to lack of an efficient assessment of the risks in events and by the speech of hatred and intolerance that proliferates in various television debates, with the government assuming itself as more a passive, patient and concerned spectator. Security is knowing that the country has a serious response plan for seismic phenomena and other weather—which, we know, will happen, we do not know when—which has to involve the insurance industry, to ensure the repair of our damage. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This debate, which is realistic, aims to be propedeutic and is kind of an alert to governance, an avider of that old maxim that looks illustrious. It is in times of greater kindness that storms are prepared. Please do not let yourself be anesthetized with RASI results, even if they are positive—and are. They won't barter in arc. The Government is primarily responsible for defining the public policies of the State, but has not fully fulfilled its constitutional duty to guarantee one of its main tasks: the security of people. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the appeal we make is that the government is acting, rather than reacting, that it does not wager in luck and in the comfortable belief that nothing will happen. Now — and in particular — be careful, look at the safety of our roads and our dams! Tito Livio said: "The greater the luck, the less should be believed in it. » Never forget that small incidents usually bring great catastrophes. Everyone, from left to right, makes a lot of effort so that they don't happen. But you have to do a lot more. They have the functional duty to avoid them. Let's hope, honestly, that they can do it. If you don't have that luck, don't blame chance. Put your hand on your conscience, make an act of contrition...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u7	That's just the confession!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u8	...and recognize that the Portuguese are entitled to much more and much better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u9	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome the PSD on the initiative of this call, especially when Mr Peixoto, at the beginning of the speech, tells us that—recognizing that, apparently, we are in time for good results, we are in time for what they claim to be lucky — it is never wrong time to have a debate time on an important subject. It is from this part that we certainly follow him. Security is an essential matter for the quality of life of Portuguese; security is a decisive factor in the country's attractiveness; security is a fundamental factor for competitiveness. Therefore, better praise could not be given to the efforts of women and men of the security forces, to the effort that Portuguese society has made in this matter, to the effort that the Government, taking on its responsibilities, has developed than the chaotic intervention of the honourable Member and the recognition of the good results that the country has in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal has just been recognized, by international indicators, as the fourth safest country in the world. The ‘safety’ factor is an element that investors point to in Portugal ; the ‘safety’ factor is the first of the differentiating reasons that tourists who visit us point out, comparing Portugal with other surely desirable destinations. This is a matter that should unite us all, it is a matter in which work requires perseverance and stability, being allergic to demagogy and to play with precise data from this or that moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, bringing the RASI here today was not the initiative of the Government, the RASI was presented on the day the law determined it and will be discussed here at its own time. [[Congrats from PS deputy Elza Pais.]] Mr Peixoto, I was sorry to anticipate a debate which recognizes the trend of the last 10 years since the last Internal Security Act in this area. As far as security is concerned, you will never see us turning it into a very short-term political-party combat point. Yes, we are pleased to acknowledge that in this global and sustained evolution, the general crime involved decreased from 421 000 crimes in 2008 to 333 000 in 2018. And it has dropped significantly, it is fair to say so in 2016, in 2017 and 2018 — plus 2, 6 % reduction in 2018. It is fair to say that violent and serious crime, the one that most affects citizens' sense of security, has dropped 43% in the last 10 years. And we should all, including the PSD, claim this success of Portuguese society. It dropped from 24 400 crimes, recorded in 2008, to 13,981, registered in 2018, and again in this case, had a very significant reduction in 2016, in 2017, in 2018, the three years for which this government can account. In 2018, 8, 6 %, the biggest reduction in violent and serious crime in recent years. If we want to look at the indicators that, over recent years, have brought the attention of Portuguese society, we can point to a reduction of 9, 1 % in school security, due also to reacting to what had been the abandonment of the coordination of the Safe School project. If we look at juvenile crime, we see a reduction of 8, 7 % in the last year and if we look at the so-called « group violence », which also includes dimensions of violence in a sport context, we see an additional reduction of 4, 5 %. But if we want to look at the forest fire crime framework, we see that the reduction was 36 % in 2018, with a reduction in the burned area of 91 %. We have never used these short-term comparative indicators, because what characterizes this legislation is the bet on the revalorization and dignity of security forces professionals; the bet on the admission of new effective ones, approximately twice as much of which were admitted in the previous political cycle; the bet on the response to priority areas and which allowed the number of elements in the National Republican Guard Intervention and Relief Groups in 2018 to double the number of elements in the 2018 National Guard, allowing the response, in initial attack, to pass forest fires from 11 districts of the continent to the whole continent and to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. If we look at the security dimension, associated with the response of Portuguese society to the tragedy of fires that devastated Portugal in 2017, we see that the Government, from the outset, since the Council of Extraordinary Ministers of 21 October, in which it adopted as a line of action the conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission Report, set up by the Assembly of the Republic, on the initiative of the PSD, has not been able to recognise this, adopted a strategy that responds to the priority of prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u12	It was never done as much in cleaning the forest; it was never done so much in primary prevention in the fuel interruption bands; it was never done as much in the mobilization of self-protection mechanisms as the project Village Segura, Safe Persons and the timely identification of 1142 high-risk frequencies this year, to which priority was given in the awareness-raising action of the Republican National Guard. All of these 1142 parishes, more than 600, between February and March, were subject to specific awareness-raising actions involving 96 000 citizens and leading to the identification of 31 500 situations that will be verified by the end of May to ensure full compliance with security obligations. What we can say, in addition to the significant strengthening of resources in the area of foreigners and borders, corresponding to the new reality of Portuguese society: a country that has ceased to export its most qualified ones, which has become attractive and which is today the destination of migrants from various parts of the world and which we believe is necessary for the response to the challenges of an economy in which the greatest growth rate of this century has occurred in the last two years and which has again had positive migration balances. As regards road safety, we assume that, on this path, we must take pride in this, because today less than half of those who died 10 years ago and less than a quarter of those who died 20 years ago die. Therefore, we must be more demanding and go further, in conjunction with the authorities, in the establishment of prevention mechanisms that allow not the demagogy of the day above the punctual result, but the structural response to forest prevention, public security. It is for a secure country, for a trusted country, for a quality of life—this is recognized by all internal security indicators, but also by all international indicators—that we will continue to work rigorously, without demagogy, by the confidence of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u13	To ask Mr Peixoto for clarification, Mr Peixoto has written down. Deputies Filipe Neto Brandão, from PS, Jorge Machado, from PCP, and Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u14	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u15	All right. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD allocated this request to the Government indicating as the theme « Conditions for the exercise of security in Portugal ». He ended up competing with the well-known Mixory Radio Program of Themes. [[PS laughter.]] Because, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, no inquiry on security can relativise the fact that Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world. Better said, any parliamentary approach responsible for security has an obligation to stress that Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world. in fact, Portugal — which legitimately aspires, in all sectors, to be able to shadow the best world references — presents itself, in the field of security, the best indicators worldwide. And it is never too much stressed, because security is, of course, one of the pillars of a democratic, tolerant and free society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u17	That's why!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u18	It is well known that there is a predisposition for intolerance when there is an increase in levels of security threat. It is not by chance, Mr President, that all populists, extremists or other enemies of freedom always end, at one time or another, by setting the standard of insecurity. It is strange, Mr President, that we are going to see a PSD test on this path.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u20	But, in fact, what do the official indicators reveal to us, in particular the documents that add the global registers of crime involved in Portugal — the Annual Internal Security Reports — the last of which was known only five days ago? They reveal to us, Mr President, that the years of this legislature are precisely the years in which both general crime and, above all, violent and serious crime present the lowest levels. That is, since 2015, year after year, Portugal — which was already a safe country, to stand out — has always presented increasingly improved safety indices. The question I am asking you, Mr President, is precisely whether the PSD is relativising this reality, i.e. whether it is recognised that the country presents objectively today the best safety indicators since there are records. If it is true that, therefore, a word of recognition is required for men and women who make up the Internal Security System, the fact is that the balance of the previous human resources legislation does not go unnoticed. Mr. Deputy spoke of memory. We speak : only in PSP and GNR, between 2011 and 2015, the balance was negative in more than 1000 elements. At the end of this legislation a total of 4536 items will be admitted in the security forces, i.e. more 2133 than in all previous legislation. The Judicial Police, which had no staff reinforcement for too many years, has already been strengthened in 120 new inspectors, to which they will add, in the short term, 47, already approved in competition, and this month will still open a competition for another 100 new inspectors. As Mr PJ's Director recently said, 'in just over two years, the Judicial Police will strengthen the law enforcement system with a quarter of the existing police, an impressive increase of 25 %. » What did we say? The PSD/CDS government has left the PJ in a dramatic situation. Mr Deputy, no one in the universe of internal security intends to return to the time of PSD/CDS governance, neither to human resources, nor to the level of pay conditions, nor to the level of investment. Finally, the PSD apparently replaced the worn-out speech of the devil by the time bomb. It therefore passed from the invocation of the supernatural to the field of technological artifacts. However, only in appearance can we envision a modernization of speech. The primaryism of attempting to exploit unfounded fears remains, unfortunately, the same. And once again, it will be reality to deny the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u21	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Peixoto, I begin by greeting you on the subject and a little more, because there really is no definition about it. Mr. Carlos Peixoto said that Portugal, more than a safe country, is a quiet country. It is clear from its initial intervention that if there is someone who is not calm with the scenario we live in our country, it is the PSD bench, because indeed the PSD bench, about security issues, brings the case of Tankos, revealing Mr. little follow-up of the current Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, recovers the fires of Pedrogon, helicopters, breakdowns, finally all possible and imaginary disasters. The honourable Member spoke of any kind of scenario. Any accident that happens to the PSD bench can say: «We were, we warned», because it has drawn all possible and imaginary scenarios. The PSD Member has not only spoken of the seven plagues in Egypt, but still goes on in time, because he still has 18 minutes of debate and he will certainly address this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u24	There is, however, a case of emergency that you did not mention: it is that the PSD has been left out of speech, you do not know what to say about the results and the measures that appear, in particular, in the RASI. They're announcing the devil, the security issues, etc. , but, indeed, Portugal is a safe country. And it is a safe country thanks to the efforts of the security forces and services professionals. The PSD says it is concerned about safety, but, Mr, I want to remember that when the PSD was in the government, together with the CDS, they promoted the freezing of supplements, kept the cuts of supplements during the vacation period, cut in investment of security forces and services, which led to a sharp degradation of the working conditions of the professionals, cut in wages, cut in rights... The professionals, all workers in our country only saw their lives walking back. Therefore, the PSD contribution to problem solving is zero; it is even negative as it only caused problems. [[PSD protests.]] He will say: 'Ah, but now we do and we happen... We are here with proposals'. Mr. Deputies, there have been few proposals. But in concrete terms, let's talk about the PSD position in the opposition. Well, the CFP presents a proposal that aims to solve a health and safety problem at work for the professionals of the security forces and services. There is a shocking problem, that of suicides in security forces and services, which need follow-up, it is necessary to improve the protection mechanisms of those workers. The PS votes against. What does PSD do? It abstains and thus makes a legislative initiative impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u25	And as regards the State budget, the CFP says 'amen'!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u26	Even in the opposition, the PSD does not make the minimum contribution to solving specific problems. Therefore, the PSD is desert when it was in the government and it is desert right now, as a member of the opposition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u27	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u28	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, Minister for Justice and other government members, Mr Carlos Peixato, Mr. Clearly, he tried to make an apology of a security policy when RASI data actually reveal a decrease in crime,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... this trend, which, in fact, is not from now on, has been taking place for several years. at least since 2003, we can say that there is a drop in crime. These indicators also show us that we are in a safe country, indicators, which are also internationally recognized. This feeling of insecurity, by the way, only the PSD sees it. The PSD can see in these indicators things that no one else sees. Only the PSD is, by the way, feeling insecure about the security we have in this country. I ask you, Mr President, if that would not be the way to better support your speech and your apology of a security policy. Neither does it seem good or sensible, but above all, it does not seem to us to be serious, nor does it seem to us to be an appropriate or serious policy, to use macabre examples and tragic accidents, and to try to turn them into political arguments. [[PSD protests.]] Having to resort to accidents that are tragic, which have brought the tragedy to the lives of so many people to sustain a speech that has no meaning is even of those who have no speech and of those who are completely naked. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u29	They look like suckers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u30	This debate, at least as the PSD began, is all less realistic and, unfortunately, it is not serious either. Since you came here to talk about everything and you did not talk about anything, it was in fact, as has already been said, a mix of topics, I wonder what the PSD really wanted with the agenda of this debate, what was the objective, because, of course, we have not yet been able to understand. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u31	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have put to me. I have listened carefully to them and I must say that there is a characteristic common to all: all of you. Deputies do like the one who points his finger to the moon and just looks at the tip of his finger. You want to reduce this debate on security of persons and goods to an instrument, to a report, RASI. Nothing more wrong! We said here, and we maintain, that the results are positive, we welcome this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u33	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u34	Just that, my dear colleagues, do the party there, send out the rockets, don't put on all the Portuguese picking up the canes, which is what you're doing. What we did with this debate was very simple: it was to alert the government, to alert the country, it was to warn the government that the history of this matter was not a history that would hold us back. Your concept of democracy is very strange. You think that when things are going well, we cannot have discussions. In particular, you have passed the Communist Party and the Block from bottom to bottom – with all the respect and tribute we have to do to Mr Telmo Correia, who has already qualified the positioning of the PCP and the Block in this legislature. So, what you guys here are doing is just that. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And more: you can come here to make any ads you want, they're just pamphlet ads. You've been walking for three years and you haven't done anything. Now, close to the elections — and there is nothing better than having elections at the door! — come to announce everything they haven't done in recent years. The Portuguese don't believe that anymore! It is very sad that you, in the face of the failures of the State, face the degradation of the National Health Service, in the face of the deaths that have occurred, in the face of the risks in the country, « put your head in the sand » and take refuge under a report. We are tired, I repeat tired, of seeing reports. Mrs. Members, see the 2016 report, see the 2017 report. There are always positive results. It turns out that, soon after the following year, the deaths were increased by murder; then the following year, the deaths on the roads increased; then the following year, 116 people died in a fire that the State was unable to fight and stop. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u35	And they come to talk about demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u36	You have been mean to fight, you have been bad to prevent, and you are now being bad to debate, because you are not facing this debate with the seriousness that he must have. We're not making any alarms here. We want to discuss this...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u37	What kind of thing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u38	... with realism and you can never harm that the security of people and goods is a theme high to the first category of this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u39	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to request clarifications from the Minister of Internal Administration, six Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Since he has informed the Minister that he intends to answer three to three, he has already spoken to Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u40	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Members. Ministers. Mr Minister of Internal Administration, when I began to hear him, I start to agree with the Minister —...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u41	What's weird!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u42	... which is rare, indeed— when he said that we are a secure country, that security is an essential aspect of the quality of life of the Portuguese, which results from the efforts of men and women of the security forces and services, the efforts of all Portuguese... Then he ruined everything, Mr Minister, when he spoke in the effort of the government, for he forgot that it is so, despite the government. That was the first mistake you made in your intervention. Minister, Portugal is the fourth safest country in the world. Of course, it is, as it has always been, that we have always spoken of this "single by the sea planted", as a calm, quiet country that attracted tourists, who attracted foreigners for their safety. Therefore, the fact that we continue to be secure is due to our men and women from the security forces and services that, despite the shocks falling from the cars, despite broken cars, despite computer systems that do not work, despite all the complaints they have made us, the fact is that, in an over-human effort of their professionalism, they have continued to do their job so that Portugal continues to be a safe country. The government has now agreed in the middle of the electoral period, but you realize. It started with the current candidate for Europeans and then Minister Pedro Marques making announcements at the beginning of the year, and the announcements, of course, will continue until October. We were already waiting for them—in fact, it would not be expected of this government, which always used the focus groups to see what was best, at every moment, and more pleasant, even at those times when we see what it did, the more in the rest of the time. We waited for the so-called civil protection law and finally came out after so many announcements. It is funny, Mr Minister, because even after a seemingly so negotiated law, the newspapers say: "Militaries refuse to submit to Morato Nunes." It seems that, even after so much time to listen, he couldn't succeed and we have the Zambian Armed Forces with the National Civil Protection Authority. It's one more of the government's things: you only listen to yourself and you don't really care what others think. Finally, we also have all the laws approved... The statutes of the civil servants of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the PSP (PSC), the judicial magistrates are now announced. I'm glad we have elections, Minister! I'm telling you again that it wasn't that, and we were passing a legislation without anything, because that seems to be the only mobile that makes you walk forward. I ask you, Mr Minister, are these also actually going to come into force before or is this just another way of pleasing professionals here and there, without a course, on a case-by-case basis, trying to try? Mr Minister, you have also bragged about land cleaning here. I would like to talk about this and leave the question to you: when will the Government follow the example of this effort of the Portuguese—yes, of the Portuguese, of the small owners who have been charged with cleaning—so that we do not have a government entity to fine another government entity for not cleaning up their own land? We are thinking, for example, of what happened in Leiria, where the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature e delle Foresta) has greatly influenced the government itself. Why don't you clean your own land? When are you going to start setting an example, in addition to the announcements, Minister? When will 50 million be available for cleaning? We do not talk about credits, because we have had this discussion many times. Minister, I'd like to leave you one last note. We want Portugal to continue to be safe and that the effectives are really strengthened, but not by bleeding by other entities, not by the 120 judicial police officers who have entered now. When are we going to have effective backups? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u43	You now have the floor, for one more request for clarification, Mrs Susana Amador, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u44	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Deputies and Mr Members, Minister, in fact the security of a country and its citizens is very important in the dimension of freedom and protection of fundamental rights. Internal security is an essential area for public policies based on a fundamental democratic principle, that is, freedom and security are dimensions of human dignity and citizenship. Therefore, a debate such as today's on security must always be carried out with a sense of responsibility, with a sense of State. The PSD initiates this discussion by proposing to us a pro-edeutic, didactic debate. As for this, nothing to oppose. But they make a scenario-based intervention and we prefer to have a debate on security which is serious, rigorous and, in essence, based on facts and the work done. The PSD says that this government does not act, that it only reacts, but the objective facts deny it. He therefore emphasized with Mr. Minister of Internal Administration whether or not we acted when we valued and improved the conditions of the security forces with a permanent effort, with a constant dialogue and with a consequent investment. The truth is that this dialogue with the security forces has enabled us to achieve very positive outcomes by paying vacation periods and additional payments to PSP and GNR agents ( Republican National Guard ) from 1 January 2019, worth EUR 10 million, and by updating at the end of 18 years the values of picket supplements and prevention of the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ). I also ask the Minister if it is not to act, if it is not to value PSP, GNR and SEF when the progress of more than 37 000 elements by 2020 is planned, with a budgetary burden of about EUR 40 million. Already in 2018 there was the progression of about 14 000. I ask the Government if it is not action, if we are not acting when we have about 85% of our PSP police with an improvement in their salaries, either by defrosting careers, by promotions, by resolving the test issue or by appointing new categories by the new status of the PSP, with 90 chief coordinators and 90 coordinators, at the top level of the careers. The fact is that in three years this government has achieved more than 25 % promotions than the previous government in more than four years. The same applies to GNR, where 19 000 military will change their remuneration position by 2020, affecting approximately 5000 military troops by 2018 and 2019. I would ask, yet, whether it is not to act, when we modernize and when we train our security forces. Looking at the Military Programming Act, there is, in fact, one with the right and one with the Socialist Party and with the support of the parties on our left, with which we have achieved, not only at the level of vehicles, but also at the level of armaments, individual protection and investment in specialized equipment and functions, a continuous growth. It was about this growth that I asked you to speak, Minister! Also at the level of civil protection today we have a more present state, a state with more operational means, with more cars. We have, in fact, one before and one after, looking at what we had with the right-wing government and what we have today, the result of a very important strategy based on three pillars: more prevention, surveillance and monitoring, more awareness and self-protection aimed at the population and more investment and strengthening combat. In fact, it is visible in these maps that I am going to show, the difference in the increase in air resources, the increase in operational means and the increase and the strengthening of cars, just comparing periods to verify the increase in this continued investment. This debate must therefore be held with rigour, objectivity and great sense of responsibility, because public security clearly has to do with the protection of people, with freedom and with human dignity. We are making Portugal better, safer, with competent public policies and that always yield good results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u45	The last request for clarification of this first round lies with Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u46	Mr President, Minister, the answer we have heard from Mr Peixoto shows, indeed, that we are already in the election campaign period and that not only the indicators of the annual internal security reports this year and previous years, but also the reality of the country and what all Portuguese feel in their daily lives do not match the PSD speech or the desires of the PSD, has not yet been well understood. So they shoot in every direction, talking about everything and nothing, without depth and no seriousness. Even the PSD would expect something a little better! But, Minister, in order not to waste the time of this debate, I would like to ask you about the implementation of the law on the programming of infrastructure and equipment of the security forces and services. The RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ) will have its area of debate, but having already entered this House, I can tell you that it seems to us clearly below the level of implementation of various sections of this law, in particular the level of implementation in 2018 — only 17 % in infrastructures, 27 % in vehicles and about 40 % in equipment. Finally, we liked to hear about this issue and to understand why such low levels of enforcement of this law are presented in relation to what was planned for 2018. Another issue has to do with GNR and GNR posts, especially within the country and in areas with lower population density. Although these areas have lower population density, they do not cease to have a significant number of inhabitants, but what we began to see are several GNR posts with public service times, i.e. from 9 to 17 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u47	You should have remembered this when the State Budget was discussed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u48	This happens in Covilhã, at the place of the GNR of Caria, of Vila de Paul, of Unais da Serra, but also in the municipality of Santiago do Cacem. They begin to reach us echoes of this reality from various points of the country, that is, of GNR posts that only work with an element or that work from 9 to 17 hours or that, when they are in operation during the night, the guard has to close the post because it is completely alone and cannot account for occurrences nor move away and leave the post to respond to any occurrence. This is what's happening right now! So, Minister, I ask you what is going on, how this situation will be solved and what you have to tell us about this. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u49	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. To respond to this first set of requests for clarification, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u50	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members who spoke in this round. I would like to tell you that we are fully aware that the issues of security — collective security and security of citizens — are fundamental in Portuguese society and are a priority for the government. This is an element that requires great consultation, mobilising all agents, mobilizing an effort of women and men serving Portugal in the security forces, but also of all those who contribute to local authorities, socio-professional structures, civil society and also here, of course, in the political decision makers, in the Assembly of the Republic, so that Portugal, in this matter, consolidates the good results. Therefore, it does not cause us any disturbance that the PSD has scheduled this issue, although it has said here that the country is calm, that things are going well and that we should not be penalized for scheduling a debate when things in this area are going well. It was not us who, having presented the RASI last Friday, on the day when the law determined it, and being willing to come here to discuss it, have marked this agenda for today, but here we are with all interest, with all due respect for Parliament and the PSD initiative to hold a debate on an important issue. We cannot therefore fall into the demagogy to understand a little what is the line of intervention by Mr Peixoto, consolidated in the speech of Mrs Emília Cerqueira, to which I did not want to refer in the initial intervention, because I admitted that it could be a matter of style. As a result of two interventions, I must regret that it is a question of guidance. The country is calm, crime is diminishing, things in this area — and I quote you — "they are doing well", but that is fruit or luck, or by chance, or by the work of the security forces. For the PSD, however, there is here a huge set of risks and circumstances presented in an uncoordinated manner in which, if possible, potential or anticipated—ah, yes! — full responsibility lies with the Government. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all the luck in your personal life and that you benefit as citizens of this global feeling of security, but it doesn't make sense to say that the reduction of attacks on ATMs, which, a year ago, was a subject of debate in this House of the Republic, is due to luck. There was a reduction of about 90 % of these attacks. In 2018, we had 27 occurrences when, previously, only in one month, there were 38. That is, in one year, we had fewer occurrences than in one month of the previous period. It does not make sense to say, when it comes to intervention on forest prevention, that this is not due to the remarkable work of autarches that I have been accompanying in recent weeks and that they are developing, in conjunction with the security forces, a good work in this area. I was in Sabugal and Sardoal, to give only two examples of autarchs who will know well, and could give many other examples, in which I witnessed the contribution they gave to state structures, structures of the security forces and local structures. The year 2018 was, from a meteorological point of view, a particularly painful year in terms of temperature: in August absolute records were struck;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u51	That's the climate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u52	in September, the record of the last 100 years was struck; and in October, particularly complex temperatures and atmospheric conditions were verified. Don't say now that everything was a result of luck. If Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the chance to have an accident in his bathtub, he will say « this is a failure of the state, it is the government's fault... » [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u53	I only have polyban!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u54	I wish it hadn't really happened. Mrs Susana Amador, in this quiet country, in an area in which, at good times, it is always necessary to prevent risks, that is what has been done. As such, between 2012 and 2015 2325 professionals were admitted to the security forces, between 2016 and 2019 they were already admitted 4809, i.e. 107 % more than in the previous period. That is why, in view of the terrible circumstances that marked Portuguese society in 2017, the commitment to prevent and place resources at the disposal of the authorities, reiterated in the State Budget for 2019, is an essential example for the timely knowledge of where the areas of risk are. in this sense, awareness was made until March, which arrived in direct actions, to allow to identify about 31 000 situations of these.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u55	Mr Minister, despite the management of your time, the Bureau would like to inform you that it has already used twice as much time as it used to be allocated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President, I shall finish shortly. Mrs Sandra Cunha, I wanted to tell you that the programming law makes all the difference, because between 2011 and 2017 there was no programming law. It existed again because it was approved in this Assembly in 2017 and began to truly enter its cruise speed in 2018. This has enabled us, in areas where the response is more immediate, to significantly strengthen the allocation of arms security forces. We had 3200 weapons assigned in 2018 and more 2300 weapons already in 2019. with regard to individual protective material, we assigned more than 3,500 protective vests. As for other protective equipment, 33 000 equipment was still distributed. In respect of cars, it was finally possible to make a four-year contract in a multi-annual tender, with these vehicles starting to arrive in October. So from October until now we have made no announcement, we have complied with the law of the Assembly, having been handed over over 600 cars to the security forces. Finally, as regards the cases he referred to, in Covilhã or Santiago do Cacém there was no closure, nor will there be. And the redefinition of the device, both in urban and rural areas, will always be carried out in close coordination with the security forces and in dialogue with the autarchs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u57	Before we enter the second round of requests for clarification, the Bureau would like to recall that what was set at the Conference of Leaders for these debates: that the times allocated for requests for clarification and their answers are twice as many of those posted on the normal grid. Of course, the management of parliamentary groups' time will be what each parliamentary group intends to do, but we should follow the agreed rules with all flexibility, but also with the reasonableness that these things imply. Mr Telmo Correia is still speaking for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister Eduardo Cabrita, seeking to put aside Mr. Carlos Peixoto's bathtub, trying to make the debate a little more useful and maybe even raise a little level, which will not hurt,... [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]] ... it began by telling you, Minister, that the performance of this government over these years in areas of sovereignty is not a mix of themes, but rather, if you want, a mix, or a medley, if you prefer, incompetence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u59	Incompetences that are, some, already resolved and dispatched, others waiting for office indefinitely. Mr. Minister, it would suffice to speak in two or three things: in the fires, in Tanks, in the Glocks. It is obvious that this government has failed in areas of sovereignty. Now, I ask you — it is the only question I ask you about fires: we can finally rest and be calm in relation to the endless debate on the Civil Protection Basics Law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u60	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u61	...do the firemen continue to threaten with strikes, protests and out there? Mr Minister, the second point I want to address has to do with road safety. Mr President, little has been said about this, but there has been a significant increase in the number of victims. Interestingly, the Minister did not bring these numbers to debate. In 2017, we had another 14, 3% of fatal victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u62	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u63	The 2018 Annual Internal Security Report says that there is a continuing increase in global disability and that there are four more deaths at local level. Therefore, road sinality, the trend of which came down, in recent years began to grow again. As an explanation, we have heard from the Government the most extraordinary things. From drones on the highways to cell blockers, which nobody knows if they exist, we've heard things about the extraordinary domain.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u65	What we have not heard were proposals or concrete measures by the Government to address the problem of road-trafficking. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We have already put forward concrete proposals in this regard, both at campaign level and at alert level, both at the level of the replacement of the Traffic Brigade, which was so successful. I ask you, Minister: what are you going to do? I would like to refer to the security forces, which is an essential point, Minister! In addition to structural issues, equipment, in which you announced something, and installations—I remind you of only the case of the EPU (Special Police Unit) in Aid, or the chronic case of Belavista in Porto, just to give two examples—we have a very serious problem, with very serious consequences. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, is there a lack of effective? Take it and say it here. It is that we have the lowest ever number of police officers: 20 217. The balance this year is again negative: 921 exits for only 305 admissions to the PSP. And, Minister, what we heard in the orders we visited is that the average age is often close to 50 years, when I was supposed to walk for 30 years. [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]] This is dramatic, this holds the pre-appointments, as it is obvious, because they don't let them out. This makes the country, obviously, but insecure. There were 1500 men who were not allowed out. I also ask you one more direct question, Minister : will you or will you not pay for the replacement of the special service supplement?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u66	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u67	The Supreme Court has stipulated that the government has to pay. I ask you here specifically: will you pay or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u68	Go, but just go ahead!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u69	Or will you only pay from 2019 onwards, how have you been saying? I also ask you, Minister: will you or will you not propose and adopt the risk allowance? Mr Minister, when appropriate, says: 'The House has decided, the Assembly knows...' But the House is all of us, and this same House has adopted a motion for a resolution...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u70	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u71	...that there may be risk allowance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u72	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u73	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Where is the government's willingness to meet that same risk allowance? Even to conclude, Mr Minister, do not tell us, as regards the effectors, that did better than the proposal of the CDS, of 400 effective ones. The truth is, in relation to the effectors, we proposed 400 every year. None of us are experts, we were colleagues in law, but we know how to account: 400, plus 400, plus 400, plus 400 gives 1600 effective. The gentlemen, at the end of an entire legislature, will propose 600. It's so much less than half! It is insufficient, it is unacceptable and it is obviously desirable to deceive people, Minister! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u74	The next request for clarification lies with Mr António Filipe of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u75	Mr President, the State Secretaries and Mrs. Secretary of State, Minister Eduardo Cabrita, we would like to congratulate you, in your speech, on seeking to raise the level of this debate, which was being marked, with the initial intervention made by Mr Carlos Peixoto, by some bizarre. Indeed, the subject is very relevant. When the PSD sent an inquiry to the Government on security conditions in Portugal, we found that the issue was indeed very relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u76	And isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u77	But then we were surprised by the way the PSD opened this debate, starting by saying that, in fact, the country is calm. from what followed, we were still aware that the PSD recognizes that the country is quiet, but that the PSD is not. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] The PSD has expressed great concern about what may happen in our country, because, from today to tomorrow, there can be an earthquake, it can blow up a dam, something can happen... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] There can be any cataclysm and, despite the drought situation in which we are, there can be even a violent downpour and we have floods.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u78	But that's a coincidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u79	The PSD therefore expressed great insecurity. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, be a little more calm, as the country is, I think we can have better conditions to continue this debate. Mr Minister, in fact, there are issues that obviously deserve to be discussed in this area. I believe that there is a relevant aspect, which is the fact that the country has returned to have a law of programming investments in security forces and equipment, after the previous government has allowed the legislation that existed when it entered office. This legislation, intentionally, has expired.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u80	Who saw you and who saw you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u81	The PSD and the Minister of Internal Administration of the time politically assumed the expiry of this law, clearly expressing the political position of not renewing it, and we are therefore pleased that the country has once again had a law on investment programming in security forces. It is important for this House to monitor the implementation of this legal diploma, because it is essential to ensure adequate re-equipment of the security forces with regard to the material means and facilities. Of course there are very serious situations, which are important to overcome at this level, some of which have already been mentioned here: we have already brought the problem of GIPS ( GNR Protection and Relief Intervention Group ), which in Pernes is installed in the fire department ; there are problems that have been reported, notably in Coruche and Avis. Therefore, there are indeed several situations throughout the country, which is necessary to run and in which it is essential to properly implement the investment programming law in the security forces and installations. Another question relates to the fact that the good safety indicators we have in our country are inseparable from the effort, dedication and professionalism of all security forces professionals — all without exception. And it is obvious that security forces professionals with greater responsibilities in territorial terms, such as PSP and GNR, are worthy of our enhancement by what they have actually given the country. It is also important for the country to pay what it owes them. Indeed, we are talking about professionals who have been very ill-treated in their socio-professional conditions over many years, and who, like other special public administration careers, have seen not only their wages and their subsidies cut, but have also seen the progression in frozen careers for many years. that it is important to verify that what the government intends to do in the area of career recovery is far from those which are the fair expectations of the professionals of these forces. Therefore, we would also like to know from the Government what it really wants to do in this area, which is of crucial importance, so that, in Portugal, we can maintain the good environment that has existed in relation to public security and the tranquillity of the citizens, but it is important that professionals also have the right pay for the work of great value that they provide to the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u82	You have the floor for a final request to clarify Mr. Minister, Mrs. Vania Dias Silva, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I would like to bring you the subject of domestic violence. After the beginning of a bloody year, which already has 13 fatal victims, RASI data confirm what we all already knew. With slight swings, as you know, Minister, the numbers of domestic violence in Portugal are overwhelming, year after year, and this is unfortunately not new to anyone. The government, in this tragic sequence, has been breaking down into announcements, working groups, days of mourning, but so far, Mr Minister, we have seen very little on the ground. The Minister will, of course, tell me that it takes some more time on some issues — even if I allow some of them to be studied in working groups and, therefore, I believe that they cannot be dealt with already — and that it will also tell me that many others are already being operationalized, such as — and I am seeing the Minister of Justice here — the establishment of specialized offices to assist the victim in Coimbra, Faro, Aveiro, Braga and Lisbon. That's true, we don't deny it. The problem, Minister, is that the country is not only Braga, it is not only Lisbon, it is not only Aveiro, it is not only Faro and it is not only Coimbra, it is much more than that, as you know as well as I am, Minister. And to reach the whole country, Mr Minister, it does not take much time, what is needed is will and allocation of resources. And that is what has effectively missed this government. So, Minister, what I ask you is very simple: is the Minister available to accept a proposal to which the CDS has already entered in order to create support and information teams for victims of domestic violence at the headquarters of the metropolitan and district PSP commanders and also at the headquarters of the territorial GNR commanders, with teams specifically trained for the various types of domestic violence, with sufficient means and with cooperation and with direct and close connection to the Public Prosecutor's Office? If so, Minister, how long do you think this can be done? In addition, Mr Minister, a problem that the CDS has been signalling for a long time and has been dealing with for four years now, that most of them not only ignore, as they have been actively rejecting. I am naturally speaking about violence against the elderly. We know that the government has done absolutely nothing in this area, or at least the picture of the problem, and will tell me that it also has several support programmes in the GNR and the PSP, but the Minister knows as well as I that violence against the elderly has been going up for several consecutive years. It is more than 30 % compared to the six years preceding this year, and these offices have already existed and are therefore absolutely and manifestly insufficient to deal with the problem. The CDS has not been tired of asking for the breakdown of RASI data, so that there is an identification of the type of domestic violence, gender violence, juvenile violence and violence against the elderly. in this RASI, we unfortunately return to not having this breakdown and therefore leave you three short and quick questions. The first question is whether it recognises the existence of the problem. Secondly, I ask you if you finally equalize this breakdown in RASI. The third question is to know what is most thought of by the government, in addition to these support teams of PSP and GNR, in relation to the elderly. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u84	You now have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u85	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, security is in fact an essential issue for the quality of life of Portuguese people. This is a serious issue that we have all the interest in discussing and that it is accompanied and voted upon by the Assembly of the Republic, even when, as the PSD says, things are going well or the Country is quiet. It is always necessary to do more, prevent risks and involve everyone in a serious way in this effort. Therefore, going directly to the issues that you put to me, I begin by saying that, in relation to the prevention of rural fires, it was yesterday unanimously approved the operational directive in full consultation with the firefighters—and not only, but specifically the firefighters who put the issue—that determines an operational commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u86	It changed just the name, the rest was the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u87	We had already finished with the so-called phase idea, because it was completely proven inadequate, and this operational commitment leads us to move from 10,700 elements at its maximum response level, which we had in 2018 to 11,492 effective. We also hope, tomorrow, in conjunction with the Association of Municipalities and the League of Portuguese Firefighters, to form more than 40 professional teams in volunteer firefighters. We're going to reach about 350 professional teams. We have constituted 165 teams in the last 18 months. That is, more teams were formed in 18 months than in the previous 17 years. In terms of effectiveness, Mr Telmo Correia, the data are unequivocal: we passed from 2300 admissions in the previous political cycle to 4809, already in realisation in the current political cycle; last year we had 950 admissions in the Republican National Guard, which allowed more than double the answer exactly in the area of protection and relief. I know we've been friends for many years, we've been studying law, but in fact, in this matter, the fact that we haven't been involved in legal-economic matters does not help you in the accounting of these results. Mr António Filipe, the issues he raises are crucial here. The total difference is, in fact, in the programming law. The programming law, which has not existed since 2011, has existed again in 2017 and allows us to relaunch an investment that has already reached a commitment level of 61 %, which is currently contracted for the 450 million euro overall of the programming law for four years. Therefore, in those types in which the response is more immediate, the execution is even greater than what was initially scheduled: it is so in armament, so it is in the individual protective equipment and in the cars that began to arrive. When we talk about installations, the time for work is longer and, therefore, we now have about eight dozen installations or on-the-job, or in project or in competition phase. That is why Mr.António Filipe, which is fundamental in the recognition of what is the tremendous commitment of the men and women of the security forces, is the recognition of the impact of the defreezing of careers in these areas. in the Public Security Police, between the new probationary regime, the new thawing operated in 2018 and promotions, 18 000 PSP professionals had a remunerative valuation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u88	That's not gonna solve the other people's problem. The rest is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u89	With regard to the Republican National Guard, we have had the highest level of promotions—about 3600 promotions in the last two years—and we have also had more than 3000 progresses, now being discussed with the associations what is the recognition of the service time of a career that basically takes place over time. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, domestic violence is a priority and therefore the action of the security forces is fundamental. Structures such as those in Porto, which I visited a few days ago with Mr. President of the Republic, and which you will know well, the one that exists in Lisbon, the Júlia Space, or the one that exists in Oeiras should be more replicated. Therefore, there is today no installation of security forces and services that is not equipped, in requalification and in new facilities, with a dedicated space for specialized care, even in the position or at the team of the smallest location. You are absolutely right, the right to security in this matter is not an exclusive part of the big cities. Therefore, the PSP and GNR teams will reinforce — I will not advance the conclusions of a working group for which we have given three months — which are good examples of cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the judicial authorities in general. Finally, with regard to violence against the elderly, as a matter of relevance, I would like to inform you today, within its committee, that we have determined that the security forces will lift the elderly on the basis of vulnerability. We are sharing, with structures of the authorities, particularly with the area of social support of the authorities, the concrete number so that, in the dimension that is poverty, the dimension that is isolation and security—which are different, but often coincide—there can be a concerted effort to allow, in what is a country in which we celebrate the extension of life expectancy, that this life expectancy also corresponds to an increasingly secure life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. This concludes this first stage of the debate and we move on to the stage of the interventions. Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD, therefore, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : I think there is no doubt for anyone that the Government's response to the scourge of fires and to the difficulties of civil protection has been committed, exerted and full of good intentions. of this, there is no doubt. But, as the people say, good intentions are full hell! And, as the Independent Commission appointed by the Assembly of the Republic told us, the changes made to the Civil Protection commands in 2017 seriously affected the response capacity on the ground, in the face of the calamities that have affected us. We now see a new radical transformation in the organic law of Civil Protection, so often promised and postponed by this government, and above all that has been approved to the solutions, with advances and retreats. After a great challenge, the final result that we have seems to be an attempt to please everyone but that, after all, does not leave anyone happy: neither the professionals themselves, nor the attached commands, nor the very structure of Civil Protection, nor the military, nor anyone in the sector is happy! They are all disappointed with the final result, which is basically a mix of themes, a mix of laws. Mr Minister, in addition to doing so on the back of this Parliament, the new civil protection organization is fully shared because it tries to bring together all emergency and relief services in the country and, instead of taking advantage of making the structure simpler and more agile, what is more confusing. This is more confusing because when one could take advantage of, with the experience of the various incidents we had, to simplify, to concentrate and to start having a more effective response, the Government decided to divert territorial coherence: Civil Protection will work in terms of CIM, which will work together with GNR, which is divided into districts, and with ICNF, which is divided into NUTS ( Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes ). So it's a great mess, there's no consistency! On the other hand, instead of taking advantage of adding, in a single office room, all the entities that provide help and respond to emergencies, what we will have is: the European Emergency Number 112 with 12 rooms, which already had; the INEM (National Medical Emergency Institute ) with 5 rooms, which already had; the GNR with 18 rooms; and the ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority) has 29 rooms. In other words, instead of joining us, if we can create coherence and facilitate the response, the government will share more and, above all, it will hand over to the CIS a matter which is the central State and which will remain in the hands of the mayor who on that day is presiding over the CIS. This is not good for anyone, not even for the authorities themselves. But perhaps we understand why: because, in this way, the government already knows that it is the chambers that pay, which are the chambers that will have to create the rooms. How is this gonna work? No one's got it! It is true that this government, at the end of four years of governance, has adopted new plans, has passed new laws and has passed new agencies, which is also true, Minister, is that nothing reaches the ground. If there is an effort in the prevention part, although propaganda is greater than realisation, what we note is that, although the Assembly of the Republic has unanimously approved the creation of tools to support the operational decision of operational commanders and to have approved a plan for the use of tracking machines, the Government has done zero! And what the commands on the ground say, Minister, is that, at the end of three or four years, despite all this, everything is as it was before, or more confusing, because still no one realized how these changes will work on the ground, since the operators do not have training, they do not even understand what the government wants to do. And, Minister, let me ask you another question. If there was so much time, what changed in training? Or are we going to have the GIPS (protection and relief intervention groups) with 40 days of training when a fireman is formed in 40 years? Oh, my God! Yeah, it's just that the GIPS for this year started training today or yesterday. Are we going to have, like last year, the cars that were supposed to fight the fires, with GNR, falling into pieces or not holding up the effort on the ground, because they were badly equipped? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand the following: the Left Block has come here complaining about the lack of GNR effectiveness in some places and the fact that they only work from 9 a.m. to 17 p.m., but at the same time approved a State Budget which did not increase the effectiveness. And, above all, it cannot make a comparison with what is, after all, comparable, by not assuming, by not confessing to the people that the great weapon of professionalization brought here by the Minister, who are the EIP(permanent intervention teams), is a great fraud because these teams only work from 9 hours to 17 hours. It is that professionalization took 24 hours, in which it would be given a response to the needs of the people, because the Minister well knows that it is not from 9 a.m. to 17 p.m. but, from 17 a.m. to 18 p.m., that most fires occur. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am finishing this message: we are available here to help, to cooperate and to create conditions for this year, to make the time it takes, it is possible to fight the fires. We're not going to depend on St. Anthony or luck, we're going to depend on our competence. But, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the propaganda is that it does not convince us. It is better to assume that things are taking place step by step, with responsibility and respect for those on the ground. It is that, at the end of all this time, of all these ads, firefighters, civil protection, GIPS and sapphires continue to do things as they have always done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u92	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u93	Mr President, I must start by recalling the PSD parliamentary bench that the Left Block has already presented in this House a project for permanent firefighting teams to operate 24-hour shifts and that this project has been rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u94	It's the government that has to do this! It's in the State Budget! State budget approved by the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u95	So we also think that, of course, these teams have to operate full-time and that it is not 8 hour shifts that solve the problem. As a final intervention, I wanted to say that Portugal is in fact a safe country. The data tell us that, we feel it and everyone feels it in their life, in their daily experience. And this is also seen, and increasingly, in the election of Portugal as a country of destination of tourism. So the PSD can't convince you otherwise. But I have to point out here an area in which, indeed, Portugal is not a safe country. It is, yes, generally in areas where crime has come down, but it is still not a safe country for women. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has already spoken of 13 femicides in 13 deaths this year in the context of domestic violence, which will soon, unfortunately, pass on to 14 because it is suspected of another case, in which parts of a body have appeared, which may originate in a passionate crime. Domestic violence continues to be the third most involved type of crime. Domestic violence continues, year after year, to occupy the second place in the type of crimes against people. We are therefore concerned that the victim care rooms, which are being contemplated in all infrastructures built again or in intervention, continue not to cover the whole territory. And we know how important it is, in fact, that the teams that make the first contact with the victims have specialized training in this area and that this follow-up to the victims is done in an appropriate space.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u96	That doesn't matter! Portugal is a safe country! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u97	We also have crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination in this area. Most arrests and investigations continue to be caused by sexual abuse of children, which also prevails in the context of family relations. however, then, we also have the information that only one third of these sexual abusers perform effective imprisonment. Therefore, in these areas, no, Portugal is not a safe country, neither for women, nor for children. We have already scheduled for this month of April in this House a number of initiatives from all banks, which seek to answer precisely these issues, especially with regard to sexual crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination and domestic violence. This is what we really have to focus on, because these are the real problems and the real internal security problems in our country: it is violence and it is the crimes against women and children and these are also those that are supported by the data of the annual internal security reports. Domestic violence continues to be the most deadly crime in Portugal year after year. Sexual violence is the most extreme, most cruel expression of domination of women and children and is therefore absolutely intolerable. The investment of the Ministry of Internal Administration in combating these horrendous crimes is absolutely essential. And it is absolutely essential in both the training of the police and in the creation of these specialized teams and the spaces of the victim's care rooms. Therefore, I hope that an increased effort will be made to, until the end of this legislature, have more laughs about this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u98	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u99	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister of Justice, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: To speak of security, it obliges all of us — I repeat, everyone — to have a lot of responsibility. To talk about security is to talk about concrete realities, but it is also to talk about perceptions. That is why it will never be too much to contribute to not questioning this value, this perception, but it will never be too much to repeat a reality: Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is recognized in the latest published report, the Global Peace Index. The international recognition of this reality is in itself a unique value, a value for which we all have the responsibility to contribute and the obligation to never question. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the feeling of security in Portugal is not just a perception either, it is a very concrete reality. It is a reality that was once again confirmed, with the continued reduction of numbers of crime involved and violent crime, evidenced in RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ) concerning 2018, which was known last week. According to the 2018 RASI, the overall crime involved has decreased by 20 % over the last 10 years, and by 2018, by 2 %, by 6 % for 2017. Serious and violent crime has also been decreasing in Portugal for a decade. Participations in this type of crime decreased 42, 5 % since 2008, the year in which the current Internal Security Act was approved, and in 2018, they decreased by 8, 6 %. Serious and violent crimes accounted for 4, 2 % of all crime involved last year. With these numbers, with these indicators, which are objective and factual, an appeal to the government, led by a responsible party, it would necessarily be in the sense of associating with this national design and the work in which the country is committed, with a view to maintaining these high standards of security. Unfortunately, however, this was not the path chosen by the PSD. They'd rather talk about anything less than what's relevant to safety. And they did it because speaking of security, speaking of their indicators, implied another position, implied seriousness, and this has not been their current matrix. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of security in a serious way meant recognizing a number of facts. It involved recognizing the importance of local security contracts as privileged instruments for implementing institutional cooperation at local level. It involved recognizing investment in infrastructure, structured in the Law on the Programming of Infrastructures and Security Services of the Ministry of Internal Administration, in particular on vehicles, where the largest tender has been made since 2008, amounting to EUR 50 million, and which will provide the fleet of new 2152 vehicles, until the end of 2021. Or it even implied comparing the total investment made by the previous Government between 2012 and 2015, which was EUR 28, 4 million, with the investment of this Government between 2016 and 2019, which will be EUR 53, 8 million, corresponding to 89 % growth. I know it was hard to recognize him, but seriousness forced him to do so. It would also involve recognizing the substantial increase in human resources in the fight against forest fires. I refer to the 11 492 operations against the 9721 existing in 2015, or even the 1291 GIPS against the 591 existing in 2015, or also to the 60 air vehicles available, as well as the 2653 teams and the 2495 vehicles on the ground device. I am also referring to the reduction in the incidence of burning areas — less than 44 % and less than 68 % compared to the average of the last 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it also meant recognizing the remarkable effort in investing in human resources, when this government will admit in its mandate more police elements in security forces and services than the previous government in four years, i.e., as has already been said, from 2403 to 4536. Thus, in the four-year period of this Government, more than 2133 elements will be admitted, than in the four-year period of the previous Government. But it also meant recognizing investment in human resources in the judiciary : in all, we will have, in this legislature, 308 new inspectors, against the fact that, in the previous legislature, they did not hire a single agent. It also involved recognizing the excellent work that has been done in the prison system, where the prison population was reduced and a very significant investment was also made in human resources and wages, promotions and recruitment. Just as it meant recognizing investment in information systems and technologies, in particular with an investment of EUR 8 million in 16 projects, in areas such as cybersecurity, crime and terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today is not well associated with the success of the Portuguese! Today's PSD does not live well with the country's success! Some time ago, the PSD longed for the failure of the country. It is true that sometimes in a more timid way than in others, but I was always waiting for the devil to come! Now, with the coming of the elections and the fact that the devil has not done his will and has not arrived, the mask has fallen and it is worth everything! It is worth everything because, for the PSD, its success could only be intimately linked to the failure of the country. For all this, and as we speak of security—which is not a field for diatribes—we had an interpelent party here today that went next to the subject of the debate and, for the most part, we had a PSD which once again went next to the country and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u100	Although there are still parliamentary groups for intervention, the Bureau does not record any other entries at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u101	Mr President, if I may, I would like to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u102	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u103	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister of Justice, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : To speak in security is also to speak in justice, Mrs. Minister of Justice, and if we speak in strikes we quickly perceive the widespread discontent in the sector, a dissatisfaction expressed precisely in the numerous strikes, which we all know, of the agents of justice, beginning with the judicial magistrates, passing by the prison guards, by the judicial officials,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u104	You're not on strike, you're random!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u105	... by the officials of the records and ending up in the judicial police.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u106	You're not on strike, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u107	Mr Minister, in her programme, the Government has undertaken to fully comply with the legal obligations to maintain the criminal policy guidelines, within a framework of strict compliance with the principle of the separation of powers. Now, Madam Minister, this commitment requires that we scrupulously comply with the provisions of the Criminal Policy Framework Law. The truth, however, as the Minister knows, is that the Government has not fulfilled all its legal obligations, starting with the lack of presentation of the report on the implementation of the criminal policy law for the biennium 2015 - 2017. The Framework Law on Criminal Policy stipulates precisely that the Government shall submit a report to the Assembly of the Republic by 15 October of the year in which the law on criminal policy ceased, and the truth, Mrs Minister, is that this has not happened. This report is essential so that it can be assessed on the adequacy and adequacy of the objectives, priorities and criminal policy guidelines defined by law, but that has not happened. At the last hearing last March, I asked you when the government would present this report and the answer was that this would not happen again. We also had the opportunity to question the state of the drafting of the bill on criminal policy for the two years 2019 - 2021 and when the government intended to present it. In response, the Minister told us that she was waiting for the RASI closure to be able to bring about this law. And now, Minister, what's the excuse you're going to make? We're talking about crime control and prevention. We're talking about security in justice. Madam Minister, with regard to the Judicial Police, we continue to lack of investment in the means available to this superior police body, which certainly impairs its ability to intervene in criminal investigation, in particular with regard to combating corruption and other economic crimes. It is also important to recall that the budget allocation for the functioning of the Judicial Police in the State Budget for 2019 has been reduced by around EUR 1, 2 million compared with the State Budget for 2018. Is this the security that the government is advocating for the functioning of the Judicial Police? I also leave this question to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u108	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u109	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to the law on the programming of justice infrastructures at the March 2018 hearing, the Minister reaffirmed that the Government would present the law on the programming of the justice system infrastructures, with regard to the prison system, but the truth is that it did not present anything at all either. What I ask you, Minister, is if you can bring us something further on this issue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u110	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Back to the issue of domestic violence, gender violence, which during this debate has been quite emphasized and stressed and which, for the Socialist Party, is an unclimbable ethical and political imperative, which calls upon all society to destroy this public crime. I would like to reiterate that in the framework of the Annual Internal Security Report, the strengthening of several fronts of work to combat this devastation and this public crime is in fact very developed in terms of strategic guidelines for 2019. It also highlighted the number of GNR military personnel and the number of police involved in this fight: 543 in the GNR and 544 in the PSP, i.e. more than 1080 men and women who are dedicated to combating domestic violence and supporting victims. This, together with the concern in 2019 with more training and training, focused on the study of specific cases and, at the same time, on the review of the risk assessment sheet, in a laborious work within 72 hours following the complaint. We also bring to this debate and to this concern the question of the use of mechanisms and technology at our disposal, along with the electronic surveillance mechanisms, which have been growing and which in 2019 will have a significant promotion of their use. That is, this is a work that needs everyone, which calls us all, but which is very well mirrored, as a compromise, in the Annual Internal Security Report in terms of guidelines for 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u112	I don't know if either of the two parliamentary groups who still have time to intervene in the debate intends to do so... not being the case...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u113	I call on you to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u114	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u115	Mr President, this is the case only to conclude by saying that the Minister could have taken the opportunity to clarify a number of issues, particularly those which I put to him. I asked you questions as direct as this: will the Minister pay or will he not pay the allowance you are obliged to, by the Supreme Court of Justice? Do you consider, or not, that there should be risk subsidies? What, really, is the average age and the number of effectives and how will you respond to that? Mr Minister has not specifically answered any of these questions, and some of these questions are not only politically legitimate as they appear in the self-claiming notebook of the forces and of the security forces' representative associations, which has been handed over to him recently and to which Mr Minister has not yet responded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u116	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u117	Does the Minister of Refugees always repeat the expression'safe country' but—and not wanting to make an ironic note of it—recall what the security forces themselves said in the last demonstration? What was it like? « O Cabrit, what is this? A safe country and the police in this”. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] That is what they said in the last demonstration, Mr Minister, who, as it is evident, is neither less respect nor lack of consideration by you. But the point, Mr Minister, is that in fact much is due to the effort and sacrifice of the security forces: of commanders asking men to refrain from strike to have a sufficient effective effect; of a Lisbon Command that has lost 1000 men in recent years; of a Braga Command that, by retirement plan—I have recently—will lose 25 % of its assets;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u118	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u119	... of 4000 men who have the right to leave by 2020, and the replacement number is not sufficient. Even to finish, I would ask you, not only the Ex.A. but the Government, which, if possible, perhaps at the conclusion of the debate, would talk to us about some of the worrying figures in the RASI. We have heard about positive numbers so far, but the truth is that there are very worrying numbers in a positive global framework. That is, in terms of homicides, more 34, 1 % have been recorded in the last year. It is a very worrying number, which deserved to be highlighted and to which the Government — which cannot only be shielded from the global framework — should give an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u120	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u121	Extortion crime, for example, increased 46 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u122	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u123	There have been several crimes that have increased — I am really finishing up, Mr President — and there are very worrying signs, such as the issue of extremism, which has been mentioned, or the question of cybercrime, extremism on the right and the extremism of counter-relation, on the left. These are cases that RASI points out and that the government should have taken advantage of to bring here and to clarify today... [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] Sir, that's what RASI says!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u124	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u125	He said that the government should have taken advantage of to clarify and help us understand, more than what can happen, what it will do in the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u126	The Government still has time to intervene in the debate. The floor is Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u127	Mr President, very quickly, I just want to talk about a few issues that have emerged widely. As far as cybersecurity is concerned, Portugal is paying attention and tomorrow is going to be an integrated, preventive exercise in preparation for the European elections. With regard to electronic voting, your experience is planned for the first time in May at the European elections in the 14 districts of Évora district. The dimension of cybersecurity is an essential element of this preparation. Mr President, with regard to the hiring of effectives, it is clear, as we have already shown, that we have increased the admission of new effectives by 107 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u128	And how many left? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u129	... concerning what had happened in the previous political cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u130	How many left? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u131	As far as RASI is concerned, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, read it right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u132	Tell me how many they went out!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u133	It is that RASI has a novelty: it shows that in 2018 there was a positive balance between entries and exits. This is also an additional element of RASI. The CDS proposed, in fact, that 400 men be admitted to each of the forces...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u134	Every year!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u135	... in the Budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u136	No, no! Every year!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u137	Fortunately, there was the wisdom of the Chamber of Leading this proposal from the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u138	And the previous ones too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u139	... because this has already allowed us to admit 600 elements to the PSP and 400 to the GNR. We're going to replace those who go to the GIPS and we're going to rebirth the lifeguard career, with 200 elements, in a contest that's going on. Mr Duarte Marques, despite the disorientation that characterized the PSD in this debate, I say that what has been done in the field of civil protection has focused on an area that is of great concern to all and, therefore, we do not sleep on the 68% less burning area than the average of the last 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u140	Mr. Minister wants to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u141	What we are doing, in fact, more than doubling GIPS, is creating 320 teams of forest slags, which do not exist, and creating a place for 1600 professional firefighters, which did not exist in 2015. Finally, in territorial matters, with the serenity that even the Bombers League has approved, we are giving territorial coherence to the conservation of nature,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u142	It's a big mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u143	... the structure of consultation of the Agency for Integrated Forest Fire Management and the structure of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority ( ANEPC ), without ruptures, with confidence in professionals, to look to the future, for more security also in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u144	After this intervention, in which the Government referred to the hiring of 400 men and women, and not just 400 men, we will move on to the closing phase. Thus, on behalf of the applicant party, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u145	Mr President, first the intervention of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u146	I'm sorry, you're right, sir. The following intervention on behalf of the Government is from the Minister of Justice, Francisca Van Dunem, to which the intervention of the requesting party will then be followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Only today, here in this Chamber, and by the profuse intervention of Mr Peixoto, I realized the object of the inquiry to the Government on the subject, and I quote, « the conditions of the exercise of security in Portugal ».
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u148	It was Mrs. Minister and all of us!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u149	But bring your written speech! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u150	Mr. Carlos Peixoto's extensive inquisitive book covers multiple areas of government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u151	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u152	The Minister of Internal Administration has, by the organization of the Government, a set of internal security responsibilities, but that is its limit. The Minister of Justice, although in its orbit the Committee on Religious Freedom, is no longer a minister of worship. I am therefore, in fact, limited to the areas of justice. That's what I belong to in the government's organics.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u153	Minister of what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u154	Two cults! It's already been from the cults, but it's not anymore. We respond here both by the government areas that we protect, reaffirming, firstly, the strengthening of the capacity of security forces and services and, secondly, the security framework in which the country lives. RASI reveals to us, without room for misconceptions, that general crime and organized crime continue to decline. This is a good sign for Portugal. Portugal's position among the safest countries in the world is also very recent. It was therefore Mr. Carlos Peixoto, if I may, a bad day, a bad timing for this debate, not only because of the circumstances I have just mentioned but, in substance, because at the time the official data show a stable safety framework, the PSD, in Mr. Carlos Peixoto's person, comes to Parliament with a speech that generates, in terms of opinion and perception, a wrong idea: the idea that something wrong happens with RASI data, or with other information, and that, after all, Portugal is probably not as secure as it is intended, thus enhancing unjustified feelings of insecurity. It is true that in RASI — and it is not necessary to go to RASI — there are problems related to the issues of domestic violence, which have been addressed here, and also to sexual violence. But in these two dimensions, the dramatism of the number of the first months of the year and, above all, the form, I would say, a bit 'unexpectable', as things happened, led us to take emergency measures. We are working, and I think that should be recognised, actively in this matter. The good news of RASI is not affected, I would say, by the circumstance of increasing the number of extortions. This reference was made here and, of course, this matter was discussed at the time of the approval of RASI within the competent body. The increase in the number of extortions, Mr Telmo Correia, if you would like to pay attention to what is happening, is essentially the question of electronic business associated with tourism and, in fact, criminal interventions that end in extortion. We have made a remarkable effort to replace the forces and security services officers who have been impoverished for years of disinvestment. We invest, yes! We invest in security, as Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has already mentioned here, we invest in justice, where a huge effort has been made to re-qualify and strengthen effectiveness. in the judicial police, we will bring in a quarter of the effectives that currently exist in criminal investigation. It was not just the 120 of that competition—no! — these 120, were 40 trainees yesterday and were authorized to open an invitation to tender for more than 100, which means 260 staff. So it's a room!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u155	from here to three years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u156	No, "three years from now" was the time when VV. They allowed a contest to take four years! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] We are also investing about 8 million euros in projects in the area of cybercrime, child pornography, economic crime and other areas. We have exceeded the time when all the investment of the Judicial Police has been channeled to a building — that time is not ours! — and we are working to put the Judicial Police at the height of a scientific police force, a police officer with the ambitions that the Portuguese Judicial Police can and should have for the reputation that it has domestically and externally grown.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u158	with regard to prison guards and reintegration services, I refer only to the following data : the number of prison guards on 31 December 2015 was 4083 ; on 15 February 2019, it was 4337. The number of prisoners on 31 December 2015 was 14 070 ; on 31 December 2018, it was 12 790. We've increased the number of guards and reduced the number of inmates. But at the same time, we have also strengthened security conditions: we have strengthened peripheral security structures; we have installed surveillance systems in large-scale EPs (prison establishments); we have acquired individual protective equipment. Therefore, in the security dimensions, in matters that concern us, I believe that we have done everything the government should do. With regard to the question of criminal policy law, Mrs Deputy, basically, what I can tell you is that the understanding that the government had, and that it expressed at that time, was that it was necessary to have the RASI in its power...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u159	Mrs. Minister, I'd ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u160	All right, Mr. President, I'll be done by now. As I was saying, you can only make a serious evaluation when you actually have RASI results and it is from that moment that everything should be triggered. We've reinforced security in the country, Mrs. Members, and to that extent, we have strengthened confidence in the security forces and the confidence that the Portuguese have in the institutions responsible for their security and the defence of their fundamental rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u161	For the closure, Mr Luís Marques Guedes, from the PSD, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In democracy, politics is done on behalf of people and for people, for their well-being and for the realization of their life projects, well-being and life projects for which security plays an essential role. This is the reason why our Constitution frames security as a fundamental right and gives public authorities the duty to protect people and goods against any threats or aggression. Lowering, devaluing or disinvesting in public security policies is a fundamental obligation of the State and endangering the well-being and life projects of Portuguese. The government said in this debate that it has wagered and invested as never before in security policies. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration even reported figures and statistics that give the appearance of proving, only that the appearance, with this Government, Minister, has serious problems in dealing with this difficulty which is the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u164	In fact, by leaving aside the ability to speak only in what is most appropriate, then we compare what depends on governments: what was and what are today the human resources and the budgetary means allocated to security. in all security forces and services, the human effect was at the end of 2015 of 45 827 women and men and is 45 522 at the end of 2018, according to government data, RASI. In budgetary means, 1961 million euros were executed in 2015, I repeat, executed, and are budgeted — we will see the executed — 2101 million euros for 2019. unlike appearances, the numbers, Minister, do not deceive.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u165	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u166	If the absence of bankruptcy and the constraints imposed by the Assistance Programme have, understandably, allowed some budget deficit, how to explain, at the whim of the misleadingly propagated by the Minister, that we have reached the end of this legislation with less effective in the security forces than we had at the end of 2015? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u167	I'd better explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u168	The security forces, Mr Minister, are the front line in preventing and combating crime, so you have every reason to be our congratulations at the beginning of this debate, with the improvement of some indicators, despite the current governance. And I say « some», because it is a small matter to measure security only through crime rates. While it is true that Portugal has been one of the safest countries in the world for many years, the truth is that this is due, above all, to the perception of a really low rate of crime compared. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, there are other dimensions of our security that do not compare well with what is happening in other countries, but rather constitute a tragic reality that we cannot ignore. I speak of the unimaginable collapse of civil protection in the defense of the lives of citizens and in the protection of their property, and in the escalation of road sinequality in the last two years. Unfortunately, I repeat, these other dimensions of our safety cannot be looked at as minor relatives, until they translate into a reality that must pose a serious question to us. While the violent crime caused 82 homicides in Portugal in 2017, and 110 in 2018, in the same period, 520 died on our roads only in 2017, plus 524, in 2018, and 112 fatal victims in forest fires only in 2017. This is, Mr Minister, the alarming cruelty of the reality of the protection of people's lives, a reality that counts less for the feeling of insecurity, I know, but we urgently need to put an end to it. Other capacities, other competences and a redoubled commitment are required in public policies that reverse the situation of these other dimensions of security. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Since this is an inquiry about the security conditions we have, I want here to express particular concern about the powder barrel that has been filling around the sport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u169	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u170	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u171	Too evident are the daily manifestations, when not the irresponsible promotion through some social communication, of the most primary radicalism and intolerance. Communication after communication, programme of alleged debate after programme, is given stage and voice to incendiary opinions and comments of abject intolerance, under the broad scope of freedom to inform. It is a "good thing" in the name of interests or audiences, knowing that intolerance is the daughter of radicalism but is the mother of violence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u172	It goes through the eyes that those who act like this are not serving sports, but, rather, serving him. Why so much complacency? Oh, my God! Imagine what these arsonists and programmers would do, who are also citizens, if at the school of their children, under the cloak of a supposed freedom to teach, if they were to give classes where the approach of matters had the level of debates that they put in the air every day and enter our homes. I do not believe, Mr Minister, in any kind of previous censorship, as I do not believe that the foretold tragedy will be avoided by the mere approval of laws, by merit and necessary that they may be. Yes, I believe that political power cannot continue to be impeded by this escalation. The Government must abandon its passivity, bring together officials, leaders, actively promote containment, respect for values and a self-regulation in sports information.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u173	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u174	I will finish, Mr. President. We must also act, Mr Minister, and not only react to the political responsibility of those who have to ensure security. I know it doesn't seem easy, but you know that it's always defeated who to give up fighting. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-04-03.u175	This concludes this request to the Government of the PSD initiative. It is only necessary to inform me that tomorrow the plenary will meet at 3 p.m. and our agenda will be the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. We say goodbye to the Minister, to the Minister and to all the Members. Members of the Government. To all and to all, I wish to continue a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 22 minutes.]]
