ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we will begin our plenary session, with this delay that I regret and of which I am penitent. [[It was 10 hours and 14 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we get to the agenda, Mr Duarte Pacheco will do his best to read the file. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 1053 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Regulation of lobbying, which falls to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, and the Resolution Projects No 1892 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the management of public real estate without use, 1893 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of the inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes, 1894 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal housing bodies, 1895 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion, 1896 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 101 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and to intermunicipal entities in the field of justice, 1897 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 97 / 2018 of 27 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of maritime, river and lake beaches, 1898 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 104 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of citizen care structures, 1899 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity ofDecree- Law No 107 / 2018 of 29November , which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of publicparking , 1900 / XIII /4 . a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity ofDecree- Law No 100 / 2018 of 28November , which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field ofcommunications , 1901 / XIII /4 . a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity ofDecree- Law No 103 / 2018 of 29November , which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and intermunicipal entities in the field of support for volunteer firefighters and 1902 / XIII /4 . a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity ofDecree- Law No 98 / 2018 of 27November , which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation of exploitation of the related modalities of gambling or gambling and other forms ofgame. Finally, we also have a report and an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to the waiver and replacement in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of the Deputies of Mrs. Idália Salvador Serra ( PS ), the electoral circle of Santarém, by Maria Luz Marques Lopes, with effect from 4 January 2019, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resignation of Mrs Idália Salvador Serra ( PS ) and of the replacement by Mrs Maria Luz Marques Lopes, with effect from 4 January 2019, including being admitted as legal requirements have been found. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It seems to me almost excuse me to say that Mrs Idália Serrão has marked several legislatures and their legislative sessions, always doing a work of great importance for the Bureau, the Presidents and the Assembly of the Republic. We wish you the best for the new phase of life that will begin. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the first item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate, in general, of Bill Nos 150 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the regime for the exercise of private security and self-protection activity and 151 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend mandatory safety measures in restaurants or drinks establishments with dance spaces or rooms. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor, which I am taking advantage of to congratulate, as well as the other members of the Government here today. Minister Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wish all and all a good year of 2019 and a good parliamentary year. The diplomas which are discussed at the initiative of the Government today on the review of the private security law and on the revision of the legal regime regulating the areas of restoration with dance areas or where it is usually danced, are part of a political action and legislative strategy aimed at ensuring the affirmation of one of Portugal's main values of identity, competitiveness and quality of life, as one of the safest countries in the world. This is crucial for the quality of life of Portuguese, which is essential for promoting the vigor of tourism, which is essential for attracting investors. These diplomas result from more than two years of work, involving all sector entities: business associations; workers' representatives; companies and associations linked to critical sectors of greater relevance to this activity; business centres; tourism, restaurants, hotels; banking and financial sectors; those responsible for the management of commercial centres and other large spaces. This work was based on the experience of the security forces, having had a decisive role in reflecting what needs to be improved, updated and improved with regard to the 2013 legal regime. What are the essential elements of reform introduced here? First, the guarantee of the complementary character of the private security activity. Security is, first of all, a responsibility of the State, which neither neglects nor resigns to exercise ; private security is essential, has a complementary nature. Secondly, the clear distinction between what is private security and what is self-protection activity, developed in residential spaces, commercial spaces or business spaces. Thirdly, strengthening the possibility of mandatory security measures. We have all seen, with an exceptional character, in a case that marked Portuguese life at the end of 2017, as police measures were essential, although the absence of a comprehensive regulatory framework of these measures has occurred. A set of rules shall be laid down here allowing for changes in the hours of operation of establishments which allow, within the limit, the determination, as a police measure, of the closure of the establishment. Fourthly, security rules in large commercial centres and commercial units are updated. Fifthly, the rules on the journal of citizens in sporting events, in large-scale events, in ports or airports are clarified, always ensuring mandatory supervision by security forces. Sixth, the conditions for access to the profession are clarified and strengthened. In the seventh place, security director and security coordinator functions are created, ensuring that the function of security director requires exclusivity in the business sector concerned, cannot be a part-time activity and in unlimited number of companies. Eighth place, security forces are guaranteed access, in a function to combat crime, to existing and regularly created video surveillance and alarm systems. In the ninth place, specific safety rules for dance spaces are established, ensuring safety in nightlife, allowing the consolidation of work with the authorities of Lisbon, Porto and Albufeira, in particular, which enabled the identification of about 80 establishments that have already justified risk-risk mechanisms of increased demand during 2018. Tenth, a rule on the liability of contractors for damage caused by companies and security personnel is established. Contracting entities may not deviate from what is happening in their establishments and developed by private security entities. Firstly, a comprehensive framework for the operation of police measures is established, it is clearly determined in which circumstances it is absolutely necessary to strengthen and require the use of private security undertakings and the circumstances in which exceptional situations may require private security undertakings to be hired. These proposals strengthen the security of the Portuguese people, who had two years of debate, which in the last year had three successive rounds of hearing of all the entities in the sector and with which I count, in the phase of speciality, with the participation of all the benches, for the improvement that is considered necessary in order to ensure the greatest possible convergence in this area of Portuguese security, because this is a collective value that distinguishes us, which is recognized internationally as a potential that values Portuguese, which values Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u5	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u6	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Dear Members and Members, I am the first speaker this year to wish everyone a good year and good parliamentary work. By going directly to the subject of this debate, I will say the following: we are all aware that security is a matter of the greatest relevance and that it should deserve constant attention from the authorities, because it is not indifferent for Portugal to continue to show itself as one of the safest countries in the world. This reality, which should be proud of us all, has been a positive differentiation element of Portugal, for example, in the competitive framework of tourist destinations and has contributed very significantly to Portugal's affirmation as one of the best tourist destinations in the world. The safety of citizens, as a value to be preserved, should also be ensured in respect of rights, freedoms and guarantees, without jeopardising individual privacy within the balanced framework between these two values: security and privacy. The former Government, through Decree-Law No 135 / 2014, established the legal regime for the private security of restaurants and beverages establishments. This diploma lists a set of measures which, of course, have had an evaluation process that took place during these three years of its implementation. It was precisely in this evaluation framework, and without disrespecting that there were some security situations, already referred to here by the Minister concerning the night entertainment spaces, which were quite mediated, which it was considered appropriate to strengthen the legal framework of the requirement and the most different means of responsibility of the agents of the sectors. Accordingly, the Proposal for Law No 151 / XIII ( 4. ( a ), which is presented to us today, has a set of measures aimed at modifying this reference framework which has been in force for three years to this part. I would like to list two or three points which seem to me to be significant, in particular the changes in the ratios, the number of port security officers, proportional to the number of customers in the establishments, thereby strengthening this ratio, which seems to be quite appropriate. The reference, which has already been made here but will never be too important, to strengthen the responsibilities of the owners of the security establishments in the framework of greater accountability and also the need to implement safety plans in their respective establishments. The need to implement video surveillance services that allow the authorities, in real time, to monitor and, at the same time, in criminal investigation, to be able to combat crime situations and, in some ways, to make the safety and protection of citizens even more effective both within these areas and surrounding spaces. Therefore, Mr Minister, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is convinced that, in this framework of reference and with the discussion in the field of specialty, bearing in mind precisely this balance between these values of security and individual freedom, there will be all the conditions for us to adopt a law that enables us to respond to these two factors and, at the same time, to ensure the best conditions of security for citizens. Finally, although Mr President has already made a reference to this subject, I would like to ask you the following question: given that this theme has essentially an impact on the cities of Lisbon, Porto and Albufeira, which are mainly tourist destinations, I would like you to tell me how you see the relations and collaboration of these authorities in the framework of the implementation of this law, because, in our view, it will also be essential for the participation of local power in the resolution and in the best follow-up of these situations in order to create conditions for security to be effectively a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u7	To reply, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u8	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, the qualification of Portugal as a security destination is something that most appreciates the international image of the country. I would like to mention two totally different events in which the organizations highlighted Portugal's capacity in the area of security: the Eurovision contest held for the first time in Portugal and recently the Web Summit, in which the organizers highlighted how an event of this dimension had unique security conditions. The survey that was made of higher-pressure tourist areas was with the security forces in dialogue and in close relation to the companies of the sector, either with the authorities of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the Metropolitan Area of Porto and the Algarve. In fact, the three municipalities that I referred to are those which hold more than 80 % of the hundreds of establishments considered as priority attention and, to this extent, the involvement of all is essential. Mechanisms such as local security contracts and permanent linkage with private security companies, with sector workers, with industry companies, but also with authorities in the prevention, monitoring and monitoring are an essential condition for this success that we want to continue to be fairly recognized. We'll do everything we can to do that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u9	Mr Luís Marques Guedes spoke for the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u10	Mr President, I begin by wishing you a good year of 2019 and, in your own person, all of you and all of you. Members of the House. Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, the review, which is now before us, of the private security legal regime — that is what I am going to talk about, will leave for a second time the second legislative initiative — was a revision which was delayed by creating the expectation of a deep work by the Government, which is expected, to a large extent, to have ended. There are certainly positive aspects to the proposal presented here, for example: the uncomplexed strengthening of video surveillance mechanisms; the extension of services that can be provided under self-protection; the obligation of an alarm system to security forces in relation to video surveillance control; the strengthening of the accountability and professionalization of safety managers and coordinators, which he also referred to in the statement. Indeed, Mr Minister, security, even when exercised by private entities, is too serious a matter to be handed over to amateurs or to conform to amateurism. It is precisely for this reason, Minister, that I begin by asking you a question that is incomprehensible to us. In fact, it is not understood that the Government has not complied with the recommendations of a working group that was created at the end of the previous legislation and that it has very professional entities and that they perceive very security, from representatives of the General Secretariat of the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration) to representatives of the Republican National Guard, the Judicial Police, the Public Security Police, the Labour Conditions Authority, the Tax and Customs Authority, of the industry's business associations, the sector's trade unions. This working group presented a broad set of recommendations to the Government. Looking at these recommendations, it is observed that the Government has ignored such relevant proposals as: the establishment of multidisciplinary inspection teams; the express prohibition of contracting below the cost; the crossing of data between the Working Authority and the Tax and Customs Authority. Major problems such as lack of supervision, effective supervision and dumping practices in the procurement of services should and could be addressed if the Government had followed the recommendations of this working group. I think that is the main gap in the proposal for a law that Mr Minister here is bringing to us. On the one hand, it is the lack of supervision and the absence of very objective rules in the law regarding the ban on the sale and sale of services below the cost which results, on the other hand, in unfair competition for companies and, on the other hand, in a 'degradation' for industry professionals, the professionals of companies who comply with the law and who are overrun and who are in danger of their jobs because of this unfair competition which, from our point of view, is not attacked in a forceful way in the proposed law that the Government brings us here. Mr Minister, I have left to the end an issue which, from our point of view, has both inept and incomprehensible in the proposed law which the Government presented here, in the House, and to which Mr Minister — and indeed — did not, in his initial speech, defend himself, which has to do with the deregulation proposed by the Government and which this bill contains in relation to the transport of securities. This proposal is completely incomprehensible, in addition to being inept. The Minister knows that, as a result of the 2013 legislation, there have been keen investments by the private security sector either in human resources—now more than 1400 employees in the area of private security who are affected by value transport services—or in financial investments, in equipment which the law forced companies to have and which resulted in a significant decrease in crime episodes associated with value transport. There is also no basis in any kind of existence for a disagreement between demand and supply in the transport of values that would justify the government's becoming irregular, lowering the legal requirements on this matter. Mr Minister, I should like to tell you, frankly, that it is a matter in which we will definitely not follow the proposal for a bill, and I hope that the spirit of commitment and openness that the Minister expressed in the rostrum is a reality in the committee work, because that will depend on the final position of the PSD on this legislative initiative, which has merit, of course, but which, according to which it was originally presented, cannot catch up with our approval. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u11	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The private security law needs to be reviewed at least since 2015, it has been said here, and there is a private security council set up by the Government to evaluate this law and propose amendments, which has done so that they are transposed into the 2015 Annual Private Security Report, which was submitted in 2016. At the time, there was an extended consensus among the various actors on issues such as the need for greater and more effective sector supervision or the inclusion of the principle of solidarity responsibility, in particular in the area of work, and which, curiously, we do not see reflected in the Bill No 150 / XIII / 4. a, of the Government, which today we analyse in conjunction with the Bill No. 151 / XIII / 4. a. We simply go through the report and individual opinions of entities such as PSP, AES - Association of Security Companies or STAD ( Trade Union of Portage Services Workers, Surveillance, Cleaning, Households and Various Activities ) and also the opinion approved in 1. the Commission of this Parliament to realize that the problems identified do not, from our point of view, find a complete answer to this bill. Let us start with the issue of supervision, because it is one of the most important demands of the sector. On the one hand, labour supervision is known as the failure of several companies to comply with wages and other payments due to workers, cutting their rights to offer more competitive market costs and, on the other hand, the supervision of the business's own activities and compliance with the law. As for this, we don't see a full answer. A second point discussed by the various actors has to do with the inclusion of the principle of solidarity responsibility which the Minister has already stepped up in the law of private security, but let us focus on the question of labour and the prices and the low cost that is practised. This is because there is an obvious problem of very low prices to win competitions, and it is very clear that these prices are only possible at the expense of workers' wages and payments due to them. In addition, the State is one of the largest private security contractors below the reference price, thus contributing to the effect of commercial dumping and thus ending up with non-compliance with labour law and the sector's own collective contract. Therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the principle of solidarity responsibility in this matter is a mechanism that enables us to deter the use of non-compliant companies, but, more importantly, it is a necessary incentive for everyone to actually comply with the law. Thus, we think that it is not possible to leave thousands of workers, as is currently left, as victims of a race to the bottom. In this sector, dumping has been constantly pointed out as one of the most alarming problems, but we believe that the Government's proposal does not give a complete answer to this issue, and we would like to ask the Government why it does not. However, a number of other issues arise and deserve further discussion in the field of expertise and on which the Left Block Parliamentary Group has doubts. We start with a new problem created in this regime and that has to do with the transport of values. The Government's proposal changes the value from which it is mandatory to contract private security for the transport of securities to 150 000 € when, before, it was 15 000 €. We know that no entity that has been involved in this work for more than two years has ever made this proposal. In fact, some entities considered that this could increase the hazard of activity. The PJ itself (Judicial Police) and the PSP itself (PSP) said it would be dangerous to put this value in the law and, in addition, it is risking, obviously, thousands of jobs in this sector. With regard to this matter, the obvious question is: what is the justification for this Government proposal, which has not supported any proposal that has ever been made? On the other hand, on the definition of professional functions and categories, which Mr Minister also mentioned, we believe that this is not the right way to do so, until the collective contract of work was signed just over two months ago. Creating professional categories without any framework in professional categories that are already provided for in collective regulation generates different functional content, with inherent difficulty in protecting workers' rights and duties and their employers. We believe that this is not the correct way to do it and we ask the Government whether it is willing to reconsider this issue, bearing in mind that there has been a collective negotiation and a contract signed very recently. Professional categories and their functional contents must remain in the sphere of collective bargaining. The Government's proposal also refers to the magazines carried out by private security workers, which are able to do them through palpation, although there is no control in the situations of private security schemes in self-protection systems. It is therefore a proposal that goes forward with measures that do not guarantee the safeguarding of the fundamental rights of citizens. On the fundamental rights of citizens, there is, from our point of view, the problem of video surveillance, which is expressed in Bill No. 151 / XIII / 4. a. The scope of the now-required image capture, in addition to mandatory, goes to the, and I quote, « surrounding outer zone», which is too vague and opens the possibility of capturing images of people circulating in these places without necessarily being users of monitored space. Moreover, this was the warning that the National Data Protection Commission has made and we believe that it must be attended in order to ensure that the privacy and violation of citizens' rights and freedoms are minimised. In short, the Left Block Parliamentary Group considers that the Government's legislative proposals are important because they respond to a need for revision that has existed for many years, but, as they are, from our point of view, they do not respond to the problems identified, in fact, aggravate some and create others. In fact, these government options are not perceived, considering the work of analysis and proposals made over two years by the various actors in the sector, from employers to trade unions and workers. Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent work, but it seems to us that, despite having made such a reference, he did not take it into account in the drafting of these proposals. It remains to be known whether the Government is available to have a more in-depth discussion in the field of expertise so that we can come to a review of the private security law that solves problems rather than to maintain or aggravate them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u13	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u14	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Mrs and Mrs. Members: With regard to the proposal for a law on private security, the first criticism that we are making concerns precisely the time that this matter has remained to be reflected, weighted and to reach this Parliament for discussion. He says that it was two years and so much reflection. Well, it was a long time for a matter that was urgent, which was relevant,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u15	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u16	... as, moreover, he eventually admitted when he mentioned specific cases that would require changes. It is true that, at the end of all this time, these legislative initiatives, in particular with regard to private security, are to update, amend, introduce improvements in concrete aspects, from delimitation to confined spaces, the obligation of a security coordinator, the establishment of the competences of the security coordinator itself and even legal requirements, which are not irrelevant. In spite of this, I would say that the proposal that the Government is now bringing to us is, in our view, a very clear missed opportunity, as well as was also seen by the interventions we heard from both the banks on the side of here and the benches on the side of there. The central issue has to do with the responsibility and competence of the State, as well as with this idea which Mr Minister has just mentioned about the complementarity of private security services and companies. Why? We all know—and we have made this discussion many times—that the state, in these areas of security, as in others, is increasingly absent, has less and less means, has less and less effective, has less and less cars. Therefore, the role of private security which should be strictly complementary ceases to be the "problem part", passes the expression of security in certain areas, in certain areas, either day or night.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u18	That is the essential point. In other words, we are at a time, so to speak, when the « follow-up» replaces the « main dish », when what should be provisional becomes final. This is the central problem, Mr Minister, and that is what it requires — and it must concern us — of the existence of requirements of demand and quality, such as guarantees of action in accordance with the Constitution and the law by all stakeholders in this sector, in this area and in this environment. Mr. Minister said you heard the companies and the unions. Well, if you've heard the companies and the unions, whether they've been with one ear, whether they've been with the other, it seems they haven't completely grasped what they said. It is because companies and trade unions have said that in this sector it is often dealing with absolutely crushed margins, gross margins sometimes of 1, 5 %, zero margin prices and, even more extraordinary, there are companies competing in competitions in which the State is often the contractor and the price presented is below the cost price. We're not talking about equipment or clothing services, we're talking about security services that the state hires below the cost price. Obviously this has consequences for workers, quality and safety.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u20	If, on the one hand, the State thinks that it earns this, on the other hand, it is losing a lot of money, because obviously social security losses are very relevant. It says one of the company's managers who can be estimated at anything like EUR 50 million per year in losses to social security for services that are not legal, are not hired, nor are they declared as they should be. And this is obviously about social dumping. What could the government do, Minister? For example, I could move forward with an idea discussed long ago, of solidarity and responsibility of the contractor. This idea was defended a long time ago, but it was a missed opportunity because the government did not move forward with it. The Government could be clear and impose a minimum price calculation formula so that these companies that are selling services using less qualified persons and below the cost could not do so, i.e. the Government could impose a minimum price that would be established in accordance with a fair and reasonable criterion and standard. In our view, it should even be established, because we are talking about security, certification mechanisms of enormous requirement that ensure that the standard is always the same, that it is always of quality so that citizens can have such a guarantee of tranquillity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u21	On the other hand, wrong solutions have been presented. To date, the Government has not yet explained why it has increased the requirement and the requirement from €15 000 to €150 000 in relation to the transport of cash with private security. As it is possible to circulate with very relevant cash values without the requirements of certified companies, those companies that have vans and have invested in these vans to be able to use them, several problems arise. First of all, the appeal for criminality from the point of view of public order seems quite obvious, because there is more money circulating without protection. Secondly, it directly challenges not only the investment of companies as thousands of jobs that have been specialized in this task. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u22	Thirdly, it seems to go to the back of everything that is international standards, because what is increasingly required is a tighter control of the use and circulation of cash, as is evident, within the logic of combating money laundering.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u23	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u24	I will finish, Mr. President. On the other hand, extending self-protection, in particular critical infrastructure, without ensuring the same requirements for private security is a matter of doubt. Finally, unlike some opinions and opinions, I am not only referring to the government — in our view, video surveillance is useful, it is necessary and its enlargement is positive, because so we will have the record of many events that take place at night and which obviously concern young people, in particular, but also their parents and other families. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u25	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Under-Secretary for State and Internal Administration, Mrs. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group has always expressed concern about the path, advocated by successive governments, to deliver to private security missions that were in the field of the competences of the public security forces. This concern is more acute when, in the field of transferred competences, there are security missions in buildings of sovereign bodies and infrastructures that we now classify as "critical infrastructures" and which interfere with citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. The path has been taken and is concerned that, in this framework, the PCP Parliamentary Group notes and highlights the report on the private security sector — drawn up in 2015 by a working group involving the security forces and services, the industry and the representative trade unions of workers — which concluded by the existence of undeclared work; serious labour problems such as excessive working hours and unpaid work; an abnormally low price practice, that is, below the cost, which causes distortions and supports the exploitation of their workers; and finally, it refers to the existence of private security companies whose members will be investigated for crimes such as extortion, drug trafficking and arms, aid for illegal immigration and economic and financial crime, including tax fraud and money laundering. It is with this information that the Government submits this bill and, instead of taking steps to solve these problems, it opts not to do so and even to create new problems. In fact, it has already been mentioned here in several interventions — from €15 000 to €150 000 the value from which the transport of securities by private security companies is mandatory. In addition to creating problems such as the elimination of hundreds of jobs, it also creates a scenario in which it can circulate a very large amount of money without security measures, which, potentially, can increase crime. Another problem identified and which does not make sense to be included in the bill has to do with the creation of professional categories and the definition of their functional contents. This is a matter for collective bargaining. It makes no sense that collective contracting defines categories and their functional contents and the law defines, to the wake of collective contracting, functional content and different categories, leading to very significant problems in the world of work. Now, the government knew about the professional categories. There is a collective contract of work signed, so it does not make sense that the bill does not accompany this collective contract of work or, at least, that refers to collective contract of work the definition of functional content and categories for uniformization. Indeed, the problem is created and makes no sense. The CFP believes that this legislative process must solve problems and not create new problems. In our view, it is important to define clearly the fields of action: where private security begins and what activities they cannot carry out because they are in the sphere of the exclusive competences of security forces and services. It is important to create solutions that help solve the labour problems that exist in private security and low-cost pricing, with the inclusion of a true solidarity liability clause. It is important — and we believe that it is possible in the field of expertise — to co-responsibility the entity that hires security services for the fulfilment of workers' rights and guarantees. Mr Minister, it is important to address the problem of critical infrastructure and who ensures its safety. The precariousness of work in companies that ensure the safety of vital infrastructures for the functioning of our country is not tolerable and constitutes a gigantic fragility that needs to attack. The advantage of this legislative process, perhaps the only one, is that it enables us to identify new problems and to open up the possibility, as a matter of discussion in the specialty, of solving new and old problems. On Proposal for a Law No 151 / XIII / 4. the, on night establishments, were mentioned two distinct materials that are being placed here: one, is access to video surveillance currently existing by security forces and services; another, it is the extension of video surveillance to new areas, which are not currently covered. And, in this case, the Secretary of State and Minister, there is indeed an extension to the areas of parking and enlargement to the areas of admission or entry of night establishments. However, this has raised concerns on the part of the National Data Protection Commission, which causes a discussion about the need for legal-constitutional adequacy in relation to access to data and the introduction into the private sphere of individuals. This discussion has to be done in order to ensure that there is an adequacy with the legal and constitutional precepts so that the diploma can effectively be improved in the focus of discussion in the specialty. Finally, Mr President, Mr Minister and Mrs Secretary of State, saying that the CFP Parliamentary Group is available for further discussion on this subject. There are many matters that need to be changed and we have the good sense to see that the final result is substantially different from what has been presented here. in this sense, the CFP Parliamentary Group will abstain and present, in the discussion at the centre of expertise, proposals for amendments to solve the problems identified above. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u27	Mr António Gameiro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u28	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This is a legislative initiative that demonstrates the government's demanding and proactive attitude in public security policies, with Portuguese security, with the prevention of crime and with already very visible and positive results, proven by the crime rates of our country in the last three years. No, Mr Telmo Correia, with this government the security forces have more resources, they have more equipment, they have more investment, they have more cars, they have more weapons! [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u29	I'm not the one who defends, it's private initiatives! Ask them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u30	The honourable Member was talking about the former government. In the previous government, yes, there were fewer cars, fewer weapons, less investment, much less investment!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u31	Do you usually read newspapers or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u32	With Mr Telmo Correia, we heard something unusual in Portugal : the CDS-PP, which defends a liberal economy, defends prices administratively set by the State for private security. And where is the market in this case, honourable Member? Oh, my God! Where's the competition? Where is the market liberalized? [[CDS-PP protests.]] Well, with this legislative initiative, the provisions of the regime in force, which determined, after a period of application, the need to assess, weigh and improve the rules adopted in 2013. This is a complex reality, with different dimensions, which imposes an exercise of careful regulation and appropriate to the permanent and effective adequacy of standards to its own purpose and to the greater purpose of ensuring more and better security for businesses, families and all Portuguese. These amendments clarify, correct, clarify and improve the regime in force, without distorting the essence and vocation of subsidiarity and complementarity of private security! The provisions on the surveillance of mobile goods are clarified, avoiding misconceptions with the competences of the security forces; extending the list of services provided by self-protection licensing entities; providing for the possibility of recourse to security forces for the transport of securities, restricting the obligation to use this service in cases where the value is more than €150 000; providing for the security system to be adopted in the performances and entertainment in authorised enclosures to include a security coordinator, becoming a regulated profession with private security personnel. More: the possibility of carrying out personal prevention and safety reviews by palpation and surveillance of goods transported in the access to sports premises, restricted areas of security of ports, airports and other locations; the function of security director and self-protection service manager becomes exercised exclusively in a single entity holding a licence; more requirements for access and permanence in the private security activity, in the use of video surveillance, in the composition, now extended, of the Privy Security Council are guaranteed; a new police measure is created, which passes through the possibility of restricting the activity of private security or private security undertaking, where there is a failure to comply with the rules laid down. These changes result in a wide hearing and significant mediation of interests in this sector. We believe that, in the field of expertise, it will be possible to deepen and improve this work, with the contribution of all parliamentary groups and, if necessary, with new hearings to be promoted. I can assure you that the PS is strongly committed and available in this legislative process to improve rigorously and critically the diploma that we particularly appreciate with regard to the issue of the transport of securities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u34	We know that we are here too, because we aim for a safer country for all and for all who live here, work or visit us. in a time of risks and threats, this is the time to continue affirming Portugal as one of the safest countries in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u35	Mr Rui Cruz has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u36	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: Following the process of assessing the adequacy of the measures provided for in Decree-Law No 135 / 2014 of 8 September, the Government concluded by the need to strengthen security measures to be adopted within the establishments of restoration and drinks where it dances. It proposes to change the ratio established for the number of private security personnel in relation to the rental of establishments, provides for the safety manager's figure and articulate private security with public security. The Social Democratic Party, without any ideological or historical prejudices, has shown support for all measures which, by strengthening the freedom and security of citizens, did not unduly and excessively include other fundamental rights, especially the reservation of privacy and family life. We must bear in mind that most of the occurrences occur in the public space, where the establishment, through its private security, cannot act, fulfilling the State here to guarantee security, but where, unfortunately and fatally, has failed in a loud and grueling, unique and incomparable way. With these amendments, what results are guaranteed for the safety of citizens? Is crime prevention and deterrence reinforced? Looks like it does. Is effective identification and persecution of the criminal increasing? Another one. Therefore, we take advantage of the initiative, but it seems to us that some concepts are not clearly defined in it, nor do they adequately justify the limitations that it makes to the right of privacy, designed for almost all spaces of the establishment, not being realized, for example, because it omits the legal notice that video surveillance systems also operate on the public space, in the vicinity of the establishment, warning to be able to affect people who have not even attended it. These and others are vicissitudes that the specialty can and should suppress. However, while fully aware of the option of an alarm system such as duty and redundancy which obliges private police to perform their duties—even if access to images in the control centres is available in real time—we do, however, have, as a matter of course, to view and communicate to the illegal security forces within and around the institutions, and in particular those around them, will be important, but it will not be enough to guarantee greater security alone, and the government cannot continue to postpone the resources appropriate to the safety of citizens. This has been the invisible hand of a government that gives, but which soon follows, and which, together with the colossal tax burden on the destruction of security, health and the protection of its citizens, punishes them double and severely. However, we have in the proposal one more step in the right direction. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u37	To conclude the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to note what seems to me to be a synthesis of this debate, the convergence of all banks on the crucial importance for Portugal, for Portuguese, of the security value and how these diplomas go in the right direction. Therefore, there is also an opening by the Government so that, at the stage of specialization, solutions can be found that aim to consolidate this convergence around the essential values that are intended to be ensured here. Portugal has been recognised as one of the safest countries in the world and 2018 has reinforced this trend with a very significant new low — close to 9 % — in the last, not yet final values available on violent and serious crime, with the adoption of measures for establishments, about a hundred in which concrete security measures were adopted, even before the adoption of this law. But it is also important to clarify — and Mr Telmo Correia brought to the debate these essential values — some options are made here. Yes, this is a State function and, therefore, the subsidiary nature of a reserve space for the privatization of security which was under the current regime is changed. It is assumed that private security is a necessary but complementary activity, the essential function becomes here that of the State. Second : I find it very surprising that the CDS, with its matrix, which is known and that we respect, comes here to defend priced, minimum prices, for the exercise of an activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u39	It was nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u40	What is enshrined is respect for market rules,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u41	It's nothing like that. What is surprising is that socialists defend wild capitalism!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u42	... is respect for the principles of safeguarding workers'rights and therefore a platform is created — Article 37. that of the Act — in which it is mandatory to place the contract prices, the working prices of those providing private security services, ensuring a direct link between the security forces and the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) for workers' rights to be defended. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u43	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u44	All that will strengthen the defence of workers' rights, the defence of security, the establishment of a principle of solidarity which, for the first time, is enshrined in this matter, will have the opening of the government, in the stage of specialization, to improve, deepen, I believe, a path which must bring together the consensus of all the banks. Thank you very much for this opening, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u45	We now move on to the second point of our agenda, with the general discussion of the Bill No 149 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the application of the tax enforcement procedure to the compulsory collection of costs, fines, fines and other amounts charged in court proceedings. To open the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Helena Mesquita Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u46	Mr President, I would like to congratulate this House on wishing everyone, Mr President, to the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic and to the ladies and gentlemen. Members, a good year of 2019. The reason why we are here today is related to the proposal for a law which is known to us. Members and through which the Government intends to achieve, essentially, a major objective: to be able to resort to the process of tax enforcement in order to proceed to the compulsory collection of all costs, fines, fines and other monetary amounts fixed in proceedings and, moreover, other monetary penalties fixed in administrative decisions, judgments or judgments relating to counter-orders or fines. In order to make use of the fiscal implementation process feasible, we had to make some regulatory changes to existing diplomas through this initiative. These diplomas are the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure, the Rules of Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. And the reason why we decided, in the context of the work that has been done, to innovate and bring, in the bottom, more effective solutions and to ensure the proper functioning of the administration of justice in administrative and tax courts, was because we studied how costs are collected in the administrative and fiscal area and we saw the degree of success and effectiveness that it represents for this jurisdiction the fact that collection, in this type of process, is done through the use of tax enforcement. In addition to the advantage of releasing human resources, of freeing the workforce, particularly at the level of the judicial officers, this system allows particularly greater efficiency in the processing of these processes and, of course, in its early course. Another advantage that also matters to take into account and that we will achieve with this measure, if this initiative is approved by this House — and I sincerely believe that it will deserve the support of at least the majority of this House — is that we not only release labour at the level of the judicial officers, as I said, who will no longer have to process these processes, but will still have an impact on what is the activity itself carried out daily by the Public Prosecutor. As you currently know, it is the Public Prosecutor's Office that promotes, monitors and establishes enforcement actions for the collection of these taxes, if, in fact, the related party to making such payment does not do so. Furthermore, since all of these processes are to be processed in the same entity, this also ensures uniform procedures for decision-makers. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have no doubt that this initiative brings greater effectiveness to the system of administration of justice and does not raise any guarantee that is due and that must be ensured in respect of the administrations and the executed. If there is any doubt on the part of any element of this House, it will be sufficient to analyze what is already happening in the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction. In administrative and fiscal jurisdiction this solution is already implemented. In fact, as is said in the preambular note, it is an initiative with a significant systemic impact. For these reasons, as I said, and I repeat again, I believe that she will deserve the approval of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u47	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u48	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: This bill, as the Secretary of State has just tabled, aims to extend the scope of tax enforcement by applying it, in addition to the compulsory collection of taxes, fees and other monetary penalties, which is already the case with decisions on tax contracts, at the costs, fines and other amounts fixed in judicial proceedings. Therefore, the necessary amendment of the Code of Procedure and of Tax Procedure will be made to this effect, in particular Article 148 thereof. the, worth pointing out, among the opinions received by the Assembly of the Republic, that of the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, which referred to gravely, and I quote, «the fundamental idea that is to be instituted deserves our full agreement ». It means that, despite some topical objections that may exist, the solution, the fundamental idea deserves, I repeat, the full agreement of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry. It is a solution that enables judicial officers and magistrates to be released for other functions, in particular that they better carry out and substantially comply with the strengthening of enforcement judgments, contributing to the reduction of expectations and also, as the Secretary of State has just pointed out, by greater efficiency, by greater speed, results in the credibility of justice, since whenever we have more rapid and effective justice it is credible. There is obviously a question that we should not squamble, which is the difference between costs and fines, because the bill does not explain how the necessary clarification of the distinction between the fine and the other outstanding amounts works, since the payment of the fine implies the termination of the criminal procedure, which has to be communicated to the court, even though the remaining outstanding amounts remain to be charged. The same applies, of course, to the possibility of converting the sentence into a subsidiary prison. It is a repair which is made by the various Councils and which must reflect on the composite nature of the executive title, which must safeguard and, surely, in the field of expertise, we will do so. The bill also takes advantage of amending the Rules of Procedure, exceeding a declaration of non-constitutionality with general force, by making the law now known what the Constitutional Court has stated is no longer able to appear as a decree, for violation of the reservation of legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic. And if the formal issue is thus unequivocally healed, the obligation to deposit the full value of the supporting note for the deduction of claim, without further meriting a question regarding the restrictive result of access to the right to which it may lead, in the same way as other recent decisions of unconstitutionality, such as that of Judgment No 615 / 2018, which has judged unconstitutional the obligation of the winning defendant of the proceedings to have to pay the remainder of the fees of justice, may merit the opportunity which is propitiated by this bill. But, in summary, and concluding, Mr President, with this proposal for a law it is unequivocal that there will be a uniformization of procedures, greater efficiency of charges, greater use of human resources, always and firmly, of the maintenance of effective legal protection guarantees for citizens, which, in the field of specialty, will certainly not fail to be enshrined. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u49	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u50	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members, the aim of this legislative initiative is known: it is supposed to increase the effectiveness of the system, freeing officials from charges to concentrate them, finally, on functions that are primarily theirs and the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office — in fact, adds the above-mentioned opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office — precisely for the same concentration in their fundamental tasks. So far, we would say, 'good, there is really a strategy to de-congest these aspects of the system' and, therefore, we would admit, yes, that it would be right. However, some problems arise, and I wanted to make them clear on the side of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. First of all, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has already stressed the inclusion in the collection list of criminal fines to be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Tax Authority by applying a tax enforcement procedure. This is something that causes great perplexities from the point of view of compliance with the essential rules of the rule of law, because, in fact, we are faced with a process that is only formally a judicial process, since it is indeed an administrative process and only by impulse of the executed one is that there will be a control of legality by a judge. We are therefore faced with a process that raises big questions from the point of view of the verifiable of the effective guarantees of a state of law for this type of collection. On the other hand, there is no doubt that at the heart of this issue and this legislative initiative is, after all, what is intended of the Tax Authority. I believe that this legislative initiative puts us in the face of a deficit and at the same time an excess of requirements made to the Tax Authority. On the one hand, there will be an excess, because it is clear that, by assigning to the Tax Authority the collection of such a large set of monetary obligations, this will make the Tax Authority, even more so, in a super-receiving agency, which, I believe, should raise great concerns—at least, we raise—from the point of view of what is normal in a rule of law. On the other hand, there will also be a deficit, because for this to happen it is necessary for the Tax Authority to have the necessary means to carry out this task properly. That is, on the one hand, we are decongesting the system on the side of the judicial officials and judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but on the other hand we are at risk that, by not providing the entity in this case the Tax Authority with the means necessary to perform these functions, we will be contributing to the transfer of congestion only.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u51	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u52	I therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying that, on our part, accepting the general idea, we are available to, in particular, contribute to the improvement of this initiative and to address all the problems arising from the rule of law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u53	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Under-Secretary of State and Justice, I leave three notes on the compulsory charging of costs, fines and fines: a note of agreement, a note of criticism and a note of reflection, so that we all can do it quickly. The concordance note is, of course, the coercive collection of legal costs and the generic principle. As mentioned in the bill, costs have a marked nature, i.e. they correspond to the payment of a service that the State provides and therefore makes sense that this charge is transferred to the Tax Authority when the costs are not paid voluntarily. We have nothing, therefore, against this principle. But, Madam Secretary of State, I would leave you two alerts which I think are essential and which have already been mentioned. The first is the technical capacity of officials of the Tax Authority to perform these functions in tax enforcement processes. It must be ensured that there is specific training in this area, which is not at least concerned with citizens' guarantees and that everything is therefore going smoothly and without any problem in this area. In addition, it is also necessary to ensure, of course, that this has no relevant impact on services. It is mentioned in the draft law, in the preamble, that there is no relevant impact, but we would like to realize that studies have been done to be able to say, without more, that there is no relevant impact. This is because we already see the Tributary Authority with difficulty in charging taxes and, therefore, with these increased functions, of course, we have to understand how they have no relevant impact. The second warning I want to leave, Madam Secretary of State, is to ensure that the judgments of specialized tax jurisdiction are actually created, which we will discuss for the week, according to I know, and which make sense. The CDS proposed - it is already in March 2018 and makes sense that tax wands are treated in these judgments, so that we no longer intrude on the most enterprising administrative and tax courts. So one thing has to be concomitant with the other, otherwise we will be tainting even more the administrative and fiscal courts, which are already atolled with very many processes. The critical note, Mrs. Secretary of State, obviously goes to the collection of penalties and fines that are not marked. The bill confuses, I don't know why, the two realities, but they are distinct and cannot be confused. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, it is necessary to ensure that the issue is treated differently here and, therefore, in the field of specialty, we will be available to do so, because these fines can be converted into prison sentences and, in this case, the treatment cannot be only and only administrative, there must be another treatment. The third and final note, Madam Secretary of State, as I have said, is a reflection. And a reflection that must be made in this area, which should have already been done, is the most important and is at the forefront of this debate, obviously has to do with the scenario in which we live in the context of judicial costs in Portugal and access to law. A working group was created in 2016, but until today we have no note of what will happen... [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u55	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying in 2016, a working group was set up and until today we have no note of what will happen in this working group, but the truth is, the Secretary of State, is that the value of the costs is close to the unbearable. Access to the right is not achieved, basically, because it is completely devoid of meaning, the middle class has no access to the right at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u57	If it wasn't the PCP proposal, what would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u58	That was the important discussion that we should be doing and that we have been delaying for three years now, the Secretary of State. That was what we should be effectively focused on, because that is what concerns the Portuguese, that is what almost denies justice in many cases. Mr Secretary of State, the question I leave you here is one of the most important questions: when will the cost legislation finally be revised? The CDS has already proposed it three times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u59	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u60	... I repeat, three times, and we wait for that solution. We would like to know when we will finally have the study completed in the working group and some light at the bottom of the tunnel in this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u61	Madam Member, as I did yesterday with a member of the Socialist Party: 3 minutes is not 4 minutes and 30 seconds! On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The efficiency of the Tax Authority shall be recognised in the performance of its duties. in this sense, the good and proper use of these potential for other types of government debt may entail an understandable development, provided that the rights of citizens and businesses are safeguarded and the specific capacity of the Tax Authority. And what has not been said, in the past legislature, when the previous government wanted to do the same with regard to the Green Way and the matter of transport! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u63	That was a bad idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u64	However, in this proposal for a law, the Government seems to have fallen into the temptation to convert the Tax Authority into a kind of general State collection agency, which, if not properly guarded, may fatally distort it and endanger some fundamental principles of the legal system. The Government's proposal begins with a rather flaky and even misleading statement of motives. Then, in its normative content, it caps on amalgamating the collection of claims for legal costs of ordinary courts with other monetary penalties fixed in administrative decisions, judgments or judgments relating to counter-orders or fines. Well, one thing is one thing and another thing is another thing. They are different concepts and their equalization entails risks, and serious ones. As the Supreme Council of the Magistracy points out, fines, fines and monetary penalties are not tax or parafiscal debts, as the proposal means, and to offer the same regime is dangerous. In the execution of criminal fines, when they are extended to the scope of tax executions, we cannot ignore that this process can run from the beginning to the end without the necessary intervention of a judge, i.e. everything will remain confined to tax technicians. This is also the opinion expressed by the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor. This means that this proposal makes it equivalent to the debt recovery regime, without consequences for the deprivation of liberty, to those having that effect, which deals with the rules of the criminal proceedings which are not tied and, above all, with the logic of fundamental rights, which, now, I stress, the Secretary of State, are not mere traditionalisms and anachronisms, as it has been said in the explanatory statement. The Government did not present any impact assessment of this proposal on the functioning of the Tax Authority. The PSD began by saying that efficiency, efficiency of the operation of the Tax Authority is recognised. We must therefore safeguard it. Can the Government ensure that the Tax Authority will not be paralyzed in the medium term? Will we not be flooding the Tributary Authority of processes and expectations that will immobilize it, thus losing its advantages and « throwing out the boy with the bath water»? Oh, my God! The PSD maintains its predisposition to work seriously on this proposal in the specialty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u65	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u66	... seeking to improve it in its obvious risks, but making it very clear that the PSD will not cooperate in the weakening of the Tax Authority and will always safeguard the law of citizens and businesses. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u67	You now have the floor by the PCP, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government has proposed that tax enforcement be used to enforce legal costs, fines and other financial penalties in favour of the State, applied within the judiciary. To this end, the Government invokes the effectiveness of this measure and the tax nature of the debts in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u69	Mr António Filipe, allow me to interrupt you. I was asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, sit down and reduce background noise. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, effectiveness will be unquestionable, but what is questionable is its use, because justice and the application of justice must be governed by criteria other than the criterion of effectiveness. There are criteria of justice that need to be safeguarded. On the other hand, it is also not true the tax nature of the debt in all cases, particularly in the case of the application of fines in criminal proceedings, which are clearly not debts of a tax nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u72	Moreover, this is a counter-cyclical proposal, i.e. the concerns that have been expressed, where the problem of judicial costs is discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, are that judicial costs constitute an obstacle, in many cases inexhaustible, to the realization of the constitutional right of access to justice and effective judicial protection. Significantly, the only proposal that appears here is to apply the heavy tax burden to collect legal costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u73	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u74	But there are very serious objections to this bill, which include, in particular, the opinions that have been presented to us both by the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. And there is a central issue which is, in fact, that of the government's application of the tax enforcement procedure to sanctions arising from criminal liability. And, in this case, the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor could not be more elucidative, even if it says that it will be questioned, and I would quote, 'if the solution of delivering the penalty of fines to an administrative body acting without informal judicial supervision is the one that best works with the consequence that, if the compulsory payment is not successful, the penalty of fines is converted into subsidiary prison'. Well, this is a central issue. I mean, the tax can't have him arrested. The conversion of a fine imposed under a criminal trial in prison must be carried out with the intervention of the judiciary. It cannot be the tax administration to make such a decision and it is not duly cautious in this bill, as the Court's intervention in relation to such a situation takes place, but this has to be guarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u76	On the other hand, and I conclude, Mr President, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy draws attention to another issue which is also related to this issue. It is that fines and fines, in criminal proceedings, do not have a taxable nature, until criminal liability is passed on to the heirs, i.e., it is an responsibilities which is extinguished. Criminal liability is extinguished by the death of the defendant, which does not happen to tax debts. Therefore, obviously, they are completely different realities and therefore cannot be blended into a bill, as the government wants. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u77	To close this debate, I have the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much of the questions that have been raised here are about the fact that they are included in this diploma realities that go beyond what is strictly known as judicial costs. But this House is sovereign, there will still be a debate in the specialty and, of course, with greater weight on the part of all of us, we will be able to arrive at another type of solution. In any case, what was intended, and there is justification for this, was indeed to refer the processes in question to realities which, in practical terms, are in all similar terms—and today the collection of fines, when you do not pay, is also carried out in the executive process — for the executive process and, for reasons of efficiency, take advantage of this opportunity. We must apply the scarce public resources available to us in tasks that add value to society. This is not the case with regard to the processing of such processes, but, as I said, the government is open to adjustments. I just wanted to remind the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen — and I have no doubt that you are aware of this — that this diploma and the solutions that are here do not jeopardise at least the legal guarantees which are guarded by our legal order to the citizens and citizens of this country. In reply to one of the questions put to me by Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, who spoke very well of the question of access to law, she wanted to inform the honourable Member that the working group has already completed its study—it has already been delivered at the end of December—and will therefore soon reach Parliament with the corresponding legislative initiative, which will, in fact, define in other forms the rights of persons regarding access to law. On the question of how we are turning tax administration into a super-agency and whether or not a study has been conducted that enables the Ministry of Justice to certify, expound and exaggerate on the preambular note itself that this will have no impact on the normal activity performed by the competent service of tax administration, i.e. no, it will have no impact. The Ministry of Justice did not do everything, but the Ministry of Finance participated in the working group, had the opportunity to evaluate the situation, through a comparative study, before the work it gives it at this time they are prosecuting the tax executions in respect of fines, fines and court fees not paid, therefore, for costs not paid within the administrative and fiscal jurisdiction, and taking into account the universe that is now known of the executions that hang in the common courts, and came to the conclusion that, for them, the process is of such a mechanized order that this does not bring them any kind of entropy. Therefore, this is the guarantee that we have and we must trust, because it is the Ministry of Finance that will process these kinds of executions and therefore if it does not impact it, better so, because we can take advantage of this lack of impact on tax administration in favor of an impact, that, yes, very positive, on the administration of justice, since this will release employees and resources, who cease to be prisoners of repetitive tasks to be able to direct their activity to the processes that truly interest in defending the rights of people in the courts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u79	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next point in our agenda, which is that of the general assessment of the Bill No 153 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, My Dear Colleagues, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and the Under-Secretary of State and Justice : After the last amendment of Law No 39 / 2009 made in 2013, the Government, in view of the current context and some inefficiencies of this scheme, brought forward a proposal for an amendment to this legal framework. In short, there are four dimensions that concentrate the main changes introduced in this proposal: prevention, procedural speed and transparency, the applicability of the law itself and a particular concern with the organized groups of followers. As regards prevention, we intend to strengthen socio-educational prevention actions, introduce into the law the crime of disobedience, when security measures determined by the security forces are not ensured, and all, absolutely all, increase the minimum limits of the fines provided for in this legal regime. With regard to procedural speed and transparency, we introduced the very essential process: we set a time limit for the security forces to send the cars up and a time limit for the Authority for Prevention and Combating Violence in Sport ( APCVD ) to complete the investigation of their processes. It is also very important to have online advertising of the sentencing decisions of all proceedings dealt with by the Authority, which will enter into force as soon as this proposal for amendment to the law is approved. As regards the applicability of the law, we pledge the mandatory application of an accessory penalty for the prohibition of access to sports premises or the obligation to submit to a police authority for the most serious crimes. With regard to organised groups of followers, we provide for the establishment of special areas for access and stay of followers, which will have to be carriers of an intransmissible identification card. The entry titles for these areas shall be made available only electronically, next to the club, and shall be indexed to the respective card. We aggravated penalties for any form of support to unregistered groups. We also envisage the possibility of the application of an accessory penalty for the prohibition of these special areas of access and stay of the organised groups of followers. My ladies and gentlemen, sport violence is not a problem of today, it is a problem we know to have decades. We know, of course, that this amendment to the law will not solve all aspects.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u81	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u82	I shall conclude, Mr President. But, even because this phenomenon requires a concerted effort, we are confident that, with this House — of course, the government must do its part and this amendment to the law rightly requires that we do our part — the approval of this proposal leads us in the right direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u83	Before giving the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP, she asked Mrs. Members to register, as the Bureau no longer registers. You have the floor, Mrs. Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It is important to begin by saying, in this discussion, that we do not detach the phenomena of violence, racism and xenophobia that may take place in the sports field of other anti-democratic violence and manifestations that are also expressed in different dimensions of society. Sport violence is not an isolated phenomenon. We understand, and we have already said, that it is important to combat these behaviours, not only in a punitive, surveillance or surveillance perspective, but — and much — in a preventive and monitoring perspective close to these phenomena, responsibility that the State must take on firmly and continuously. On the proposal for a law under discussion, there are concerns that the CCP has and cannot fail to record: the total disappearance of the Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth Institute of Sport and Youth ( IPPDJ ) in these matters, even in its follow-up, being replaced by the Authority for Prevention and Prevention and Combating Violence in Sport; the continuation and even strengthening of the role of private security in this area; the creation of specific areas of access and stay of followers — which, in fact, are now virtually the only areas authorised in the sports rooms which the Government submits; the creation of an access card which, in the background, is an identification card of identity card of the subject-holder, and the existence of specific sectors identified as buffer zones, which, moreover, are also being kept in addition to this proposal of the law which the Government submits; the creation of an access card which, in essence, is an identification card of the subject, as well as the subject, Mr Secretary of State Secretary-Office of State stated, that Mr Secretary of State stated, that Mr Secretary of State in question, which I would add to the first to the first record, which I should add to the first to the first record, to the first record, which the law, which is to the first record, which is to the law, which the first, which is to be added to the first register, which is to the first register, which is to the existing, to the existing law, which is to which the first register, which is to the existing, which is to be the existing law, which is to be the existing, which is to which the existing, which the first register, which is to which is to the first register, which the first register, which is to which is to which is to which is to which is to the first register, which the first register, which is to the law, which is to the first register, which is to the first register, which is to the first register, which is to which is to which the existing, which is to which is to the existing, which is to the existing, which is to the existing, which the existing, which is to the first register, which is to which is to be, which is to the first register, which, which is to the first register, which is to the existing, the first register, which the existing, which is to which is to which the existing, which is to which the On this, we recall what we said in the past: to commit an act of vandalism, to perform a violent act, xenophobic or racist is a crime; to support a club, a team or even an athlete is not a crime. That is why crime is committed, but citizens' rights are not sacrificed on the pretext of supposed security measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u85	Madam Member, excuse me, please. I'd ask the ladies again. Ladies and gentlemen to sit down and not to create background noise. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. The measures contained in this proposal, in addition, considering Article 2. the, applies to all sports shows, to any sporting events, including celebrations, behaviors in places intended for training and sports practice, facilities of clubs and anonymous sports companies and even in travels of fans and sports agents and to the sports hall or sports complex and training sites. This means applying this law to different modes, to different sports realities, to different spaces, stadiums, enclosures and pavilions of different dimensions and different utilities. We cannot, however, analyze the national sports phenomenon only in the light of large games, large clubs, where reality is substantially different from what is happening in most of our cities, our villages and even the villages of our country. We cannot ignore the diversity in the sports world nor can we go by the conditions that clubs or space owners can, or not, have to comply with what is intended here to legislate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u87	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u88	I will finish, Mr. President. To ignore the reality of smaller clubs, of different modalities, including the non-professional aspect, is to run the risk of mortgageting the future of these clubs and these modalities, and that is not acceptable. The CFP is, of course, available to discuss, deepen and improve this bill. We understand that this discussion has to be broad and cannot leave anyone out. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u89	The next item is Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u90	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: In the 1989 constitutional review, the constitutional responsibility of the State for the prevention of violence in sport was set. It is on the basis of this proposal that we are discussing today a significant amendment to the law establishing the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows. Five years have passed since the last revision of the legal regime of combating sport violence, long enough to realize that more monitoring and deterrence mechanisms are needed for the phenomena of violence and intolerance in sports shows. I would like to draw attention to some aspects of the proposals that we have put forward that are central and essential. First of all, the creation of the Authority for Prevention and Combating Violence in Sport, with the supervisory, control and sanctioning tasks assigned to it and, in particular, the ability to initiate counter-ordination processes, even without police action or complaint, which so far the IPDJ has not held. Secondly, more action and less impunity for those who do not respect the law: the obligation to apply penalties and incidental sanctions—which is an example of the prohibition of access to sports premises— whilst at the same time establishing the increase of fines for values with impact, from the point of view of prevention, and less irrevocable, from the perspective of precursors. Thirdly, more rules for organised groups of followers: clashes. An identification and mandatory card for all followers, the prohibition on the physical availability of entry tickets, as well as the increase in fines in cases of allocation of any support to organised groups of unregistered followers, are aspects that we consider to be of clear importance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We recognize the need to ensure a greater distinction between competitions, as regards their nature, and the definition of types of sports venues. It is therefore Parliament's time now, in the field of expertise, to analyse, debate and seek to improve this initial proposal which the Government presents to us in good time. Democracy is summary and it will be with this commitment that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group here will be, in the specialty, to dialogue with the various actors, who, day by day, promote sports practice in our country, associations and federations, with the other political parties, to add our contributions and thus build, with as much consensus as possible, a final proposal that defends and enhances the climate of peace in our sport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u91	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u92	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: Violence in sport, racism, xenophobia and intolerance are matters which this Parliament has followed and on which it has spoken. It is good that the Government is also contributing to this by revising the law. But we must focus the debate, and the CDS Parliamentary Group has often warned that we need to frame this problem, from the point of view of State intervention, not only in traditional responses. What are the traditional answers when a problem exists or gets worse? Create a law, if the law does not exist; change the law, if it already exists, or create a new entity to deal with the problem. We understand this type of response, but, in the case of combating violence in sport, we have warned of a problem that seems to us to be the one that distinguishes this reality most from in Portugal, which is happening in other countries, which is compliance with existing laws. We have a very serious problem in Portugal in complying with existing regulations. The most paradigmatic example of this is the fact that, in Portugal, despite many times seeing phenomena of violence in sports shows, the number of prohibitions of followers prevented from accessing these sports shows is very small, which does not happen in other countries with the same law as Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u94	Therefore, we do not have the problem of Portuguese law being softer when it comes to the possibility of prohibiting access to sports shows, for whom we have already practiced acts of violence in them, we have a problem of law enforcement and the effectiveness of this application. This discussion of the legislative amendment should not divert us from another concern and from another answer that we have to give, which is that of awareness, especially of the judiciary, that the law is applied and that the incidental sanctions in this case are applicable, because it is fundamental for us to achieve the objective of combating violence. With regard to the legislative amendment, what we believe is that there is a lot of space in the specialty to improve what is brought to us by the government. The government brings about positive changes, for example, the incorporation into the national legislation of practices that have been adopted in major international competitions, which have been successful and which makes sense we transpose into national legislation, but deal with a problem that, we recognise, is difficult to resolve: a law that, at the same time, has to be applicable to major football games, professional competitions, and to games of amateur competitions and other modalities is obviously a law that has to have sufficiently effective but also sufficiently broad assumptions. What we think is that it's hard to put everything in the same group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u95	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u96	I will finish, Mr. President. We will probably be able to study the possibility of having mechanisms applicable to professional football competitions and, possibly, with the exception of some games of other modalities, and different rules for other types of performance and modalities, which obviously also have problems of violence that cannot be ignored by the law, but which must, from the point of view of the requirements, have a different framework. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u97	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State : In good time the Government presents this bill amending the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows. Already in this Parliament we have had several moments of discussion on this matter. In fact, we had a conference, which was quite involved within and outside Parliament, on sport violence, which opened an important space for discussion and debate, also giving the various parliamentary groups the capacity to work on this problem. So I was allowed to divide this intervention into two essential parts. The first on three aspects of analysis that should be highlighted in relation to what we are discussing here. The importance of the legal regime and the various amendments that have been made over the years, the last five years and now, on a proposal from the Government, the new amendments that are presented here and another issue, which is whether we need more sanctioning instruments, whether we need aggravating the penalties or whether we need instruments for a better applicability of what is on the table. And if it is true what Mr. João Almeida, of the CDS, said here and that it is factual, that is, we are one of the countries where the figure of the ban on access to sports venues and shows is less applied, it is also true that we are one of the countries where this figure has been in the law for longer. Therefore, it is an old discussion and it is also important to highlight, looking at the debates we have had here, the reason why that law is often not applied, even though many complaints have been submitted to the various competent authorities for this purpose. For us, in the process of specialization, which seems to us to be able to guarantee better law and better amendments, there are three essential questions: firstly, a harmonisation of the regime, in order to respond to the various realities and sports modalities and even to the various enclosures where these modes and sports shows take place. It is a difficult law, because we are often talking about shows with 65 000 or 70 000 followers, sometimes only with a few dozen followers. So harmonization is important, it is difficult, but it must be done and always based on a principle that we find essential, which is that the greater the importance and effect of these sports shows — we are talking about great sporting phenomena — more responsibility have the clubs, the organizers of these same shows. Then there are two fundamental questions about the organized groups of followers, vulgar cliques, which seems to us to need to resolve once and for all. First, more transparency in the relationship between clubs and those organized groups of followers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u99	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u100	I will finish, Mr. President. We cannot continue to have clubs that clean hands of what happens, of the various highly negative factors that these groups organized followers eventually print to the various sports phenomena. Secondly, we propose greater accountability of the clubs for the acts of these same organized groups of followers, who cannot continue to feel that they are impunity inside and outside the sports halls. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u101	Mr Pedro Pimpão of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The subject we are discussing today is of the greatest relevance, since sport is increasingly assumed as a privileged instrument in the formation and integral development of citizens, resulting in social, cultural and economic benefits for society as a whole. We must continue to defend it that way, because sport must be an activity developed in an environment that values ethics, tolerance and the sports spirit itself. Unfortunately, in the last few years in Portugal, we have witnessed a succession of cases that undermine this essence of the sport phenomenon. The truth is that the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows was significantly changed in 2013, and here are several parliamentarians who, at the time, took part and followed this process of legislative amendment. These legislative changes have faced a number of specific threats that have emerged in the national sports phenomenon and which have occurred since the entry into force of the 2009 Act. Of course, in the 2013 Act itself, a standard was entered which involved the evaluation of this legislation two years after its entry into force, i.e. at the end of 2015. And as Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party pointed out, five years have passed and what was established in the law of 2013 has not been fulfilled. Only at the end of all these years—2016, 2017, 2018 and early 2019—is that we are finally discussing the proposal to amend this legal regime. However, to date, despite all this time, and repeatedly we have requested statutory hearings with the members of the Government responsible for the protection of the sports area, we have not been given any supporting documents to carry out this evaluation to the application of this law. The fact is that, in addition to the entities exclusively related to football, and explicit in the initiative, we do not know which other entities consulted for the preparation of this proposal and what their contributions. It is because we have received many federations and sports agents, complaining that they have not been consulted on this bill. It makes the evaluation of the measures proposed in this diploma, and although it generally agrees with some solutions found, the truth is that it does not seem to consider the wealth of the eclectism of the national sports movement, based on the diversity of its sports modalities. Although, statistically, there is a greater number of cases of sporting violence in football, the fact is that the various modalities, the vast majority of which assumes amateur charis — where amateur football itself is also included — may be subject to a set of obligations which can be manifestly disproportionate and have very negative effects on the sporting associative tissue itself, which already has to face so many challenges. Therefore, we are committed to, in the field of expertise, and in a spirit of positive collaboration, to contribute actively so that advanced solutions can be improved and that new solutions can be created that can meet the desires of the sports movement itself, in a cause that must unite us all and that is committed to the firm and determined fight against violence, xenophobia, racism and intolerance in sports shows. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u103	In order to close this debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has once again given the floor to the Secretary of State for Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u104	Mr. President, Dear colleagues of the Government, Mr. and Mr. Members, firstly, I would like to welcome the spirit and, in essence, the tone of the various speeches of the various parliamentary groups, to the extent that whoever is listening to this debate, to follow this discussion, will clearly realize that we are all committed to combating the phenomenon of violence in sport and to creating a regime and a legal framework that will enable us to carry out this fight more effectively. by using the word 'effective', here I would like to recall what I said in my initial speech, i.e., I agree with the generality of the interventions, particularly with what Mr. João Almeida said, i.e. that there are already laws and that what we have is a problem of law applicability, but the fact is that it was also precisely in search of the effectiveness that we have introduced some amendments in the proposal which are currently being discussed. It is said that in Portugal some sanctions do not apply, either inhibition or prohibition of access to sports premises, whether the requirement to be presented to police or judicial authority at the time of the game, but the fact is that this was already in the law, under the form of an accessory penalty, that is, to the discretion of the judge or the courts, the decision to apply it or not. It is clear that awareness-raising needs to be done, and the Government has done so, in particular through the establishment of a working group within the National Sports Council, including the Higher Council of the Magistracy, the Ministry of Internal Administration, the Ministry of Justice, which seeks to develop such awareness. But we believe that it is a good idea, especially in the most serious crimes, to make the application of these kinds of sanctions that exist today as accessories compulsory. I just wanted to leave two final notes, the first is that the Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth, contrary to what Mrs. Diana Ferreira said, is not alien to these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u105	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u106	I conclude, Mr. President. We will continue to have a National Plan of Ethics in Sport (PNED) to follow this phenomenon, especially from the perspective of prevention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u107	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that, of course, we are also sensitive to the question of diversity, the various dimensions of modalities and sports premises, and we are absolutely convinced that the work to be done now in the field of specialty will result in a good change to this law of sport violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u109	The general debate on the Proposal for a Law No 153 / XIII / 4 is closed. a. Before we move to the fourth item on the agenda, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary of the Bureau, to make a set of announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 1905/ XIII/4. a ( BE ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 97 / 2018 of 27 November implementing the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of maritime, river and lake beaches, 1906 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 98 / 2018 of 27 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation of exploitation of the related modalities of gambling or gambling and other forms of play, 1907 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion, 1908 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 100 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of communications, 1909 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 101 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and to intermunicipal entities in the field of justice, 1910 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of the inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes, 1911 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 103 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and intermunicipal entities in the field of support for volunteer firefighters, 1912 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 104 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of citizen care structures, 1913 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal housing bodies, 1914 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the management of public real estate without use, and 1915 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 107 / 2018 of 29 November implementing the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of public parking. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, draft resolutions Nos 1916 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 97 / 2018 of 27 November implementing the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of maritime, river and lake beaches, 1917 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 98 / 2018 of 27 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation of exploitation of similar modalities of gambling or gambling and other forms of game, 1918 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion, 1919 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 100 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of communications, 1920 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 101 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and to intermunicipal entities in the field of justice, 1921 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes, 1922 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 103 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and intermunicipal entities in the field of support for volunteer firefighters, 1923 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 104 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of citizen care structures, 1924 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal organs in the field of housing, 1925 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the management of public real estate without use, and 1926 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 107 / 2018 of 29 November implementing the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of public parking. Finally, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, the Draft of Deliberation No. 23 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — The fifth amendment is made to Resolution No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January ( Composition of delegations to the International Parliamentary Organizations ) and to their publication. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u111	Mrs. Members, we move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which includes the joint assessment of the following decrees: No 98 / 2018 of 27 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation to operate the modalities related to gambling or gambling and other forms of play[ Parliamentary assessments No 83 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 77 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 93 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion[ Parliamentary assessments No 84 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 80 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 94 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; paragraph 100 / 2018, of 28 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of communication[ Parliamentary evaluations Nos 85 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 74 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) e 95 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; paragraph 101 / 2018, of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and to inter-municipal entities in the field of justice[ Parliamentary assessments Nos 86 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 81 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 96 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes[ Parliamentary evaluations No 87 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 78 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 97 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal housing bodies[ Parliamentary evaluations No 88 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 79 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 100 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the management of public real estate without use[ Parliamentary evaluations No 89 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), 76 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 101 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; No 104 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of citizen care structures[ Parliamentary assessments No 72 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 99 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; paragraph 107 / 2018, of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of public parking[ Parliamentary assessments Nos 73 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 102 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; paragraph 103 / 2018, of 29 November, which provides the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and inter-municipal entities in the field of support for volunteer firefighters[ Parliamentary assessments Nos 75 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 98 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; and No 97 / 2018 of 27 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of maritime, river and lake beaches[ Parliamentary assessments Nos 82 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 92 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ]. To begin the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u112	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The CDS has no doubt that local authorities are an essential vehicle in the field of decentralization of policies and the economic and social development of populations. At this point of departure, I reiterate here the agreement of the CDS with the decentralization of the competences of the central State to local authorities and inter-municipal entities, in addition, according to the initiative that we have presented in due course. However, we soon realized that the government's way of dealing with this process was wrong. Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September adopted in the previous Parliament, expressly provided for the decentralization of competences, but imposed several conditions. From the outset, the law should expressly provide for the necessary and sufficient human, financial and financial resources for the exercise, by local authorities and inter-municipal authorities, of the competences transferred to them, by reference to their sources of financing and their means of allocation. The law also provided for the State to promote the necessary studies in order to ensure that the transfer of competences does not increase overall public expenditure, to increase the efficiency of resource management by local authorities or inter-municipal authorities, to improve the efficiency of the exercise of competence by local authorities or inter-municipal entities and to link the various levels of Public Administration. The law also provided that such studies were prepared by multidisciplinary technical teams and that their legislation should refer to such studies. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current Government, in violation of the provisions of the law in force, did not do any study, did not involve the various entities and, even with regard to Parliament, and even though the Minister of Internal Administration had assured that this would happen, did not present the sectoral diplomas in this Assembly of the Republic, for its analysis and debate, before negotiating at the closed door only with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. In addition, the law on the basis of decentralization and all sectoral diplomas has already been adopted, although at the moment a committee is operating for the study of decentralization. The government has since wanted a blank check and, as it has found that this House was not intended to issue, resolved everything at the closed door and adjourned, sine die, any realisation of this reform. In addition, he introduced into the Local Finance Act a rule on the bottom of the decentralisation that contained nothing and intended to have the State Budget approved for 2019 another norm that did not specify, leaving any transfers to the authorities dependent on the will of their ministry. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS has requested the present parliamentary assessments because it seeks to know, in particular, the financial, heritage, technical and human resources, which will be affected by each area to be decentralised. As we have already promised, we do not pass blank checks to the government. So today we are presenting a proposal for an amendment to these legal decrees to clarify, in particular, the financial question, the services to be transferred, the human resources that will be affected and the heritage to be transferred to local authorities. Without any specific regulation of all these essential issues, decentralisation will never go beyond good intentions. And we, in the CDS, who believe in decentralization, will never be able to accept this and we will fight to make this state reform, so important, a reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u113	On behalf of the CFP, you now have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP has always considered that the Assembly of the Republic could not stand aside from the process of transferring competences to the authorities, given its size, relevance and what it means in the context of the reconfiguration of the State. Not from a perspective of improving public service and its efficiency, but of deresponsibility of the government, transferring problems that over successive decades governments have not resolved and that in some cases have even worsened.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u116	What happened recently in Borba should serve as an example for what should not be done. Competence transfers are planned directly from the central administration to inter-municipal entities, which are neither authorities nor members of the administrative organisation of the State. That is why we are presenting the parliamentary assessments of the legal decrees published so far, as we will do with others. The legal decrees published confirm the position of the CFP: we are not faced with a real process of decentralisation, but before a transfer of charges to the authorities in an uncoherent and incoherent manner. A real process of transferring competences to the authorities means observing the administrative organisation of the State as a whole and not in a partial way, as happened, including the creation of administrative regions, and does not sum up the transfer of competences between central and local administrations. A real process of decentralisation implies: the preservation of the administrative, financial, heritage, legislation and internal organisational autonomy of local authorities; the guarantee of universal access to public goods and services necessary for the implementation of constitutional rights and the universalization of social functions of the State; the national cohesion and efficiency and effectiveness of public administration; the unity of the State in the legal division of tasks between public and administrative entities and the adequacy of its exercise at central, regional and local levels of administration; the clarity in delimitation of responsibilities; the adequacy of the means to needs; and the stability of financing in the exercise of the tasks committed to it. A decentralisation process implies the power to implement, decide, plan, schedule and, where applicable, monitor and similar means necessary for the realization of the allocation, as well as of public, mobile or immovable property, and other means which affect it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u118	It is not before a process of this nature that we are present! There is no basis for these, and not for others, the powers to be transferred to the authorities, no strict assessment of the impact of the transfers of these powers to the authorities, at the financial, technical level, of human and organisational resources, nor are the conditions for the exercise of these powers by the authorities. With the abolition of the Article on the Financing Fund for Decentralisation in the State Budget for 2019, there is no enabling standard allowing financial transfers under this process to the authorities. The Government has failed to comply with the law when it establishes that the amounts to be transferred are on a map to be approved under the State budget. No competence transfer map has been approved! Therefore, the only solution to this process is the one proposed by the CFP: the cessation of the validity of these legal decrees, because the conditions for transferring competences to the authorities are not met. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u119	I now give the floor to Mr de la Bloco de Lefte João Vasconcelos for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As stipulated in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic over four decades ago, the Left Block defends the principle of subsidiarity and, in this wish, the decentralization of competences for the authorities — bodies elected directly by the voters —, Freguess, municipalities and regions. It is a finding that our country remains one of the most centralists in Europe. The central power consumes about 90 % of the State's financial resources, leaving only 10 % for local power. Therefore, decentralize, besides affirming itself as a constitutional imperative, is presented as a priority to democratize and deburocratize the state apparatus. None of the previous governments, the responsibility of PS, PSD and CDS, wanted to know about decentralization for nothing and continued to favour centralism, even in the constitutional framework. They even hampered the process of decentralisation, as PS and PSD did in negotiating the introduction of the referendum to prevent the creation of administrative regions. Or, as the PSD/CDS governments have done, with the creation of inter-municipal entities, which are not authorities and which have been left without means, without scale, without size, or have started municipalization processes that have eventually generated much discontent. The goal was to prevent the regionalization of the country, and they achieved it! It won centralism, lost democracy, lost authorities, lost populations. The current government, based on a new parliamentary majority, enjoyed a golden opportunity to finally advance with effective decentralization of competences and even presented itself to the electorate with these proposals in its electoral programme. In addition to initiating the proceedings late, the government has tried — and tried! — implement not a real decentralization of competences, but rather a municipalization of these competences and chose as a partner the PSD. It was a tailor-made wedding of convenience, but it seems that the varnish has already begun to explode. Despite some misunderstandings, there seems to be no divorce in sight. Marriage is to last, let's see how long! It is true that the process was born very wrong and, as the popular saying says, «who is born wrong late or never goes right». The PS Government and PSD have thus resolved to impose a pseudo-decentralisation with which the Left Block cannot agree. On regionalization, not a word, not so little for the next legislatures. A serious decentralization process will have to strengthen the democracy, participation and decision-making capacity of citizens, which is not the case when attempting to strengthen inter-municipal entities that are not local authorities. A serious decentralisation process should not include the competences of public services whose exercise does not recommend a municipal scale. It must maintain the universalization of essential public services such as education, health, culture, justice, social security, housing. All of this will be at stake! This is a deresponsibility on the part of the central State of universal access social services, which, without the proper transfer of the corresponding financial packages, will lead to the outsourcing and granting of these services to private persons, questioning their access to all citizens on an equal footing. The process is indeed much more difficult when, contrary to the Local Finance Act itself, the maps of the so-called Fund for Financing Decentralisation do not appear in the State Budget for 2019. Even the rule that, by order of the Government, provided for the transfer of amounts to the Financing Fund for Decentralisation ended up falling during the discussion in the speciality of the State budget. Within the framework of the approval of Law No 50 / 2018, approved by PS and PSD, which determines the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, the Government has been publishing a series of sectoral decrees with notice of delay. But the process has been difficult and has deserved several criticisms of many autoarchs of different political quadrants. On the other hand, due to its size and complexity, the Government should not, with the support of the PSD, deal with the transfer of powers through the use of the legal act, but rather through proposals of law, with a greater involvement of the Assembly of the Republic. It will be the municipalities, the parish, their populations who will be concerned, who will be harmed and who will suffer the consequences. The Left Block will never be able to align in this irresponsibility, in this real mess. thus, the Left Block Parliamentary Group has requested the parliamentary review of all the sectoral decrees already published and will do the same to the remaining ones that are still missing. What is asked is the cessation of all these decrees of law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u121	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This vast and numerous set of parliamentary assessments on the transfer of competences to the municipal bodies, which we are now discussing, confirms two very clear evidence. The first is that the process of decentralization — if we can call it — negotiated and approved by PS and PSD, was born wrong. He was born very wrong. The second evidence, which, in fact, comes from the first, is that «what is born wrong late or never goes right». For this reason, the Greens greets the banks that have scheduled parliamentary assessments on the various diplomas that concern very important subjects for citizens, their quality of life and access to public services by Portuguese. As we mentioned during the discussion of the proposal on the transfer of competences to the authorities, the Greens believe that the process of decentralization should be guided by three central elements: first, one should not lose sight of the creation of administrative regions; then, the process of decentralization should have as its basis the defence and enhancement of the autonomy of the local power; and, finally, this process should always be built with as a perspective the best way to respond to the needs of the people and to promote the quality of public services provided to the citizens. These are, in our view, the central objectives that should guide any process towards genuine and effective decentralization: the defence and enhancement of local power autonomy and the best way to respond to the needs of the people and to promote the quality of public services provided to the citizens. But these objectives were not present in the negotiations between PS and PSD, which, moreover, were based on the law which both, and only they, approved. For us, we continue to consider that decentralization cannot and should not be seen as a way of disresponsibility of the central State of its functions. Decentralisation cannot occur only because the government does not want or cannot respond to what it intends to decentralise. In addition, it should also be noted that some of these transfers affect areas which our Constitution includes in the social functions of the State. If our Constitution includes these areas in the list of fundamental rights, it is because at the constitutional level it is intended to ensure that these rights are guaranteed universally to all citizens and throughout the territory. Citizens cannot, as is intended in this process, be subject to the financial availability of their municipalities to access public services and to those which are the social functions of the State, including health, education or justice. And they cannot, because our Constitution chooses these rights as fundamental, precisely to ensure that they are universally guaranteed to all citizens and throughout the territory, regardless of the municipality where they reside. In addition, this type of decentralization process will foster a delineated management of the political strategies that, if national, each in its own way, at its own place. This is particularly important, especially at the level of the sectoral areas to which the parliamentary views are being discussed. We refer, for example, to the area of justice, housing, management of maritime or river beaches, the roads of communication, tourism promotion or support for volunteer firefighters. In addition, there are political decisions in certain sectors that require a level of technical knowledge and that must be taken by those who have that knowledge, which is neither present nor can be dispersed. Today, the decision is often supported by a specialized technical hierarchical chain, which is fundamental but will be charged if this process progresses. We run the risk of many authorities, not having that knowledge, if they are forced to use the private, spending even more money. This is because of all of this, but also because we consider that it is not advisable to move on to decisions in isolation, depending on the location, without any national strategy, in areas and matters where this strategy is essential to ensure not only the rights of all citizens but also to manage knowledge, knowledge and reflection in terms of national development and also in terms of resources, that the Greens not only accompany the parliamentary assessments under discussion but also present legislative initiatives to put an end to the effects of the 11 diplomas which constitute the object of these parliamentary assessments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u124	The floor now, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, is from Mrs Berta Cabral. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In the parliamentary review of some of the sectoral diplomas relating to the process of decentralization, it should be noted that the PSD, as a deeply democratic party and rooted in local power, strongly believes in the principle of subsidiarity and by virtue of the decentralization of the powers of the State. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u126	And we don't stick to the words. In 2015, we moved forward with a pilot project in this area, recognized and praised by the then President of the City Council of Lisbon and today Prime Minister, and in this legislature we were the first party to put the matter on the agenda and to implement the presentation of a draft framework law on decentralization. The PS and the government, in turn, have always had difficulty moving from words to acts! They hesitated, zigzag and systematically delayed throughout the process. It took more than one year to present the draft framework law, it took almost three years to present the review of the Local Finance Act and the sectoral projects have been published to the accounts, each with a different period of entry into force, which is a true blanket of flaps and a puzzle for our authorships. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] The truth is that in this area, as in other areas, the government has failed, even though the PSD has done everything to make decentralization a reality in this legislature. I recall the agreement between the PSD and the Government on this matter, concluded on behalf of the national and decisive interest to drive the process of decentralization, an agreement based on four pillars: the framework law on decentralization; the new financial regime of local authorities; the sectoral decrees; and the financial envelopes associated with each local authority. I also remember, because it is important to remember, the enormous effort made at the end of the last legislative session for the framework law to be approved and for the new regional finance law to be approved as well, and this was only possible thanks to the PSD. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] But here, here, the big question is not the content of the decrees under consideration. The question is the financing of new competences. The problem is not in the diplomas, because everyone knows very well that these diplomas deserved the agreement of the National Association of Municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u127	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u128	What is at stake is the fact that the government has not fulfilled 4. the pillar of the agreement concluded with the PSD. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u129	The Government has not entered into the 2019 budget, as agreed, the amounts of the Decentralisation Financing Fund for local authorities according to the competences to be transferred to each of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u130	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u131	Why wouldn't he? It was because the government, taken by tactics and removed by its coalition partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u132	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u133	...he did not do what he should and transformed the « cornerstone» of state reform into a large « stone in the shoe» of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u134	We, PSD, fulfill our part! The government is not fulfilling yours. We have therefore presented the draft resolution which was debated yesterday in this House, because with this draft resolution we are telling the Government that it has a final opportunity to solve the problem it has created, which has to do with financing the powers to be transferred, because without financial means the transfer of competence is a achievement and for that it does not hold with us. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is consensual that local power over the past 40 years has been a key part in decentralization of investment, access to public services, improving the quality of life of people and in the more global and equitable development of our territory. It is time to take a step forward and create conditions so that in the next 40 years the authorities can do even more for the people and for the country. The PSD is ready for this challenge and has evidence given, as seen here! Autarchs know very well that they can count on the PSD. On the contrary, and no matter how difficult it is for me to say this because I would like us to have an impeccable and perfect process of decentralization, the fact is that the government has managed this process in an absolutely hesitant way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u135	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u136	I shall conclude by saying that this is indeed the last opportunity that the Government and the PS have to define themselves and say whether they opt for the ‘angular stone’ or choose for the ‘stone in the shoe’. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u137	The word now, on behalf of the Socialist Party, is from Mrs Susana Amador. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party, it is central to ensure the transformation of the model of operation of the State, starting with the structures that form its basis, i.e. the local authorities. Such reform and transformation requires an effort and deepening of local autonomy, which we have come to realize, implies a commitment to increasing the legitimacy of the authorities and opens the door to the transfer of competences from the direct and indirect administration of the State to the bodies closest to the people, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, autonomy and democratic decentralization. Law No. 50 / 2018, of 16 August, approved in this Parliament, in this House, meets these constitutional principles: it guarantees universality, equality in access, the public nature of policies and opens the door to this great uniformist and transformer process, which is decentralization. The sectoral decrees, which have already been promulgated and published, operationalize this reform in a number of areas which the proximity adds and ensure a better adequacy of the services to be provided to the populations. All these diplomas, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, were the result of a constant work initiated in 2016 on permanent linkage and constructive dialogue with the Government, the CIM ( intermunicipal communities ), the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ), the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ). All these legal decrees, which are now the object of parliamentary review, reflect a prior consensus and accession of the authorities through the governing councils and general councils of these bodies and municipalities, which have always been consulted. There were no closed doors in this process, but yes, always open doors. Therefore, it is not true that this reform does not meet the consensus of local authorities and that it has been carried out from top to bottom, as it is defended in parliamentary assessments, since the hearing and dialogue was permanent with ANMP and ANAFRE, the various authors were immediately involved with the Guidance Document Decentralisation—Enfounding Local Democracy'. We are also faced with a gradual process so that each authority assesses its ability to exercise progressively in order to take on the new competences until 2021. It is not true that this process is irresponsible for the State. instead, this process of transfers democratizes, maximizes response, enhances efficiency, recognizing that the authorities are fundamental to the management of public services, in a dimension of proximity. And they are also the State, territorial collectives, who aim for the collective interest, subject to a great and high scrutiny and a protection of legality. It is also not true that the Assembly of the Republic has been placed outside this procedure. It was also central in this process, either by organizing conferences on decentralization, in the discussion, in general, of the framework law and the revised Local Finance Act, in the establishment of the Independent Commission for Decentralisation, as well as in the large dozens of hearings held in the specialty and in the 11th. the Commission, either in 8. the Commission, that of education. They also lack on the basis of the statements contained in the various parliamentary assessments — which consider funding insufficient for needs — since both the framework law and the revised Local Finance Act density the Fund for Financing Decentralisation and the sectoral decrees, which involve direct financial transfers, ensure the financing of new powers, in a fair allocation of resources, where human and material resources are safeguarded. In addition, the sectoral decrees determine, after prior pronouncement of the municipalities, the publication of the maps with the amounts to be transferred by sector for the year 2019, ensuring by this way the necessary participation of the municipalities in the fixing of their financial envelope. The authors of these parliamentary assessments also seem to forget that in all the State budgets we have been increasing the financial transfers to local authorities, reaching the largest increase of the decade in 2019, and that new sources of revenue have been created with the aim of increasing convergence in the participation of local authorities in tax revenues. There have been, and are now, four years of resumption of the autonomy of local power. It was also always in this spirit of defending the interests and rights of citizens that the Government and the PSD concluded an agreement on 18 April, which aimed at the change of paradigm from a centralist state to a state that will be more decentralized and will be able to generate more citizen participation. With the approval of Law No 50 / 2018 in this Chamber, it was also established in Article 4 ( 1 ). the, that the implementation of transfers would be carried out after agreement with the government and the ANMP, through sector-wide legal diplomas. The Government is thus fulfilling what the Assembly of the Republic has approved and, in this area, there are no good or bad majority, but only democracy is working. As Mr President of the Republic said, the proximity strengthens economic and social development and deepens the national unity of solidarity among all Portuguese, ties which we want to deepen, because we trust in local power, one of the greatest successes of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u139	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration and Mr. State Secretaries : Decentralisation is a structural reform of the State which, if everything goes well, should last until 2021, i.e. two legislatures. There are political agreements that are made, and well, outside the Assembly of the Republic, but, in structural matters, the role of the Assembly of the Republic is essential. It is therefore important to make clear what can be done in this Parliament and what should remain next. Parliamentary appreciation of the legislative decrees on decentralization is welcome because it puts the political centrality of the process of decentralization where it should be in the Assembly of the Republic. The assessment of sectoral decrees with reduced financial impact must be carried out as closely and as quickly as possible in order to give it continuity. What, unfortunately, can no longer be done in this legislature is a new Law on Local Finance. This implies that there cannot and should not be decentralization in the areas of education and health, which have a large financial impact. According to some figures in a study that I do not know, but which has already come in the newspapers — a study by the State Secretariat of Local Authorities and sent to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, to which Parliament has not had official access — only in education, we are talking about EUR 797 million. [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u141	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u142	To conclude, Mr. President and Mr. Members, decentralization cannot stop, but it is not being done in the best way, and the responsibility is the government, it is the PS, it is the PSD, and it is also the way they participated in the State budget, the other parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u143	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the parliamentary benches which, with these requests for parliamentary approval, have allowed to place at the heart of the political debate what is a decisive mark of this legislature. This legislature will be known for the way four State budgets have been approved that have returned dignity and autonomy to democratic local power and that have contributed to the greater growth of funds never seen in any legislature. Thus, the participation of the authorities has been strengthened, precisely by combating a brand of centralism which, even today, compares us badly with the other countries in the European framework. In fact, the little more than 14 % of the public expenditure we have allocated to local management compares poorly with 24 % of other countries within the framework of the European Union. This is the decisive step towards effective decentralization in the Government's Programme, when we affirm that this is the fundamental pillar of State reform. When the Prime Minister assumes that this is the cornerstone of the reform of the state, we proudly assume that this is the greatest reform of the structure of the state, and it is done within the framework of this legislation. And we do it in deep debate, involving all Portuguese autoarchs. This is the most participating political and legislative process of these four years of the legislature, because it involved the creation of a consensus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u145	Consensive? Oh, my God! There is no consensus!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u146	... that allowed the unanimous approval of the congresses of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and of the National Association of Freguesias, from the basis that brought us to the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u147	It's not the same thing! What has been approved at the congress is not what is in the Government's proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u148	This process has allowed all the diplomas which today are the subject of parliamentary review to be discussed deeply, one by one, at meetings where the government always had at least three authors, one elected by the PS, another elected by the PSD and another elected by the CDU. All these diplomas as referred to in Article 44. the Framework Law, which in good time, based on an extended political agreement, was approved, as well as the Local Finance Act, having both been published on 16 August 2018, enabled the restoration of autonomy and the strengthening of local participation in economic development, fulfilling the Constitution. The Constitution requires us not rhetorical words of praise to the authorships, but effective application and compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, the defense of local autonomy and the effective realization of the democratic decentralization of the Public Administration. So what would some say if in the State budget were the appropriations for the diplomas, fulfilling the law passed by this House and published on 16 August, and the discussion of the sectoral diplomas with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities was not yet closed? Oh, my God! This process was recognized here, in the hearing during the debate of the State Budget, as an exemplary process of participation, an exemplary process of auscultation of local authorities, with a great involvement, which I wanted to welcome, of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and of the National Association of Freguesias. This alone enabled 21 sectoral diplomas, 11 of which have already been published in the Journal of the Republic and which are now the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, to discuss, close and close texts between 16 August and 15 November. We have all the availability for parliamentary follow-up of this process, because it is essential to improve, monitor, meet this essential objective, which is to be achieved, of the Constitution of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u149	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u150	To suspend this process would be to betray Portuguese autoarchs, would be to betray the confidence and demands of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and ANAFRE, would be to betray 40 years of hope for the realization of true democratic local power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u151	Mr Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important that the truth be restored in this debate, because it is not true that there has been consensus on this process, which is not decentralization, but the transfer of charges to the authorities. There was opposition, opposition from the PCP and also at the level of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, and there is opposition from several sectors in our society, in particular, of education. However, these considerations were not taken into account in what was approved by the Government, with the support of the PSD. Mrs Berta Cabral pointed out that the main issue in this matter is funding, that the transfer of skills without means is a achievement. Mr. Member, did you wake up now for the problem? Oh, my God! Since the beginning of the process that the CFP raised the issue of the matter is not the definition of competences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u154	... but rather the process, the conditions, the principles, the criteria, the impact assessment, the elements that we have always demanded and which have been approved in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u156	However, until today, the Government has never made such an impact assessment, nor has it referred these elements to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u157	And the PSD accepted!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u158	From the beginning it was known that there was no guarantee of the conditions and financial means, of the human resources, of the technical means to be transferred to the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u159	And the PSD accepted!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u160	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u161	That's why, sirs. Members of the PSD, it is not worth having come to play that role, seeking to take responsibility for your skills when they have as many responsibilities as the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u162	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u163	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u164	If the PSD had not voted in favour, we would not be discussing these matters here today. [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, even to conclude, I would like to say that the primary concern of the CFP is the public service provided to the populations, and the public service provided to the populations, under conditions which the Government, PS and PSD have agreed, is not guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u165	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u166	For this reason, the large populations are affected throughout this process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u167	The PSD was the government's life insurance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u168	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have heard, with astonishment, Mr Minister said that this was the « decisive mark of this legislation ». Mr Minister, only if it is the government's brand that has won the habit of announcing something with great pump and circumstance and then doing its opposite, and giving everything in nothing. Only if it's that brand you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u170	It's the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u171	Frankly, the CDS is decisively in favour of decentralization, precisely because it draws closer to the power of citizens. We are not in favour of a pseudo-decentralisation—as the government seems to see it, but also the PSD—as a closed-door business between rulers and autarchs or between the government and ANMP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u172	We are in favour of decentralization, too, because it means better state, closer services and more rational spending. We will not be appropriate, Mr Minister, with the allocation of powers to chambers which simply have no resources or money to exercise them, and are, of course, obliged to tax and tax citizens or to ask for favors from the Government. Nor will we be in favour of a central state, with general directives and public institutions that remain completely intact, managing powers that will seem to cease to have. Mr. Minister, what you proposed was more state and worse state.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u173	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u174	The CDS is in favour of real decentralization, which means better state, closer services and more rational spending. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u175	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having completed the examination of these Decrees-Laws, we are moving to the statutory voting period, to what I ask the services to do to act on the electronic quorum verification system. Meanwhile, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, has an announcement to make to the House. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u176	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I inform you that during the debate the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP presented amendments concerning Decrees-Leisn. 98 / 2018 of 27 November [ Parliamentary appraisal No 83 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) ], 99 / 2018 of 28 November[ Parliamentary appraisal No 84 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) ], 100 / 2018 of 28 November[ Parliamentary appraisal No 85 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) ], 101 / 2018 of 29 November[ Parliamentary appraisal No 86 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) ], 102 / 2018 of 29 November[ Parliamentary appraisal No 87 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) ], 105 / 2018 of 29 November[ Parliamentary appraisal No 88 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) ], and 106 / 2018, of 29 November[ Parliamentary appraisal No 89 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), which are downloaded to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u177	I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members who have not yet done so in favour of the electronic registration of their presence. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot register electronically shall have to signal to the Bureau. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the electronic table records 208 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies Antonio Filipe, of the PCP, Antonio Topa, of the PSD, and Vania Dias da Silva, of the CDS-PP, making 211 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin with Vote No 698 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS Members ) — regretting the death of Amos Oz, whom Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro will do well to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u178	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 28 December died, at 79 years of age, Amos Oz, a victim of prolonged disease. In full name Amos Klausner, the writer was born in Jerusalem in 1939, still during the period of the British mandate nine years before the proclamation of the State of Israel as an independent nation. He lived his childhood in Jerusalem and much of his youth in a Kibutz, in Hulda, where he completed his secondary studies and dedicated more than 25 years of his life to him. He completed military service between the 60s and 70s, at different times, and at that time completed his higher education at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Following the Six-Day War, he soon became actively involved in political associative life, co-founding the pacifist peace movement Now, in which he was militarized until the last of his days. Much of the image that Amos Oz leaves is one of the most prominent contemporary Israeli writers, who earned him several international prizes, and was even indicated for Nobel in Literature. Some of the most interesting and shocking contributions to the understanding of Israel's history result from its enormous literary work. Besides having been a great intellectual writer, it was equally an ethical reference of several generations in the approach and reconciliation of the two peoples, Israel and Palestinian. Amos Oz belongs to the tight gallery of the great intellectuals of our time. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the disappearance of the Israeli writer Amos Oz, who expresses his condolences to the family, friends and the Israeli people, recalls his cultural and civic intervention and the indelible brand that leaves both in literature and in the defense of peace, and in particular the solution of two States. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u179	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We passed to Vote No 699 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PS and subscribed by CDS-PP and PSD Members )...................................................................................................................................... Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will please read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u180	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Joaquim Manuel Carvalho Tenório, Joaquim Bastinhas, was born in Elvas, on March 8, 1956. at the age of 12 he presented himself as an amateur knight in the Monumental do Campo Pequeno and travelled the squares of Portugal and Spain, proving as a practical knight on 9 September 1979, in Vila Viçosa. On May 15, 1983, Joaquim Bastinhas took the alternative of professional Tauromachic knight in the bull market in Évora, having as patron José Mestre Baptista and as witness João Moura. Joaquim Bastinhas was often nicknamed the ‘ tourner of the people. ’ The empathy that generated with the benches, the joy that conveyed in each moment and the way it reached the thousands of people who followed it, they noted it in a unique way. France, Mexico, Venezuela, Greece, Macao, beyond Portugal and Spain, vibrated with the magical moment of the ‘airport pair’ that Joaquim Bastinhas, like no other, celebrated and eternaled in collective memory. On September 4, 2015, he was seriously injured, which led him to interrupt his career, but on July 21, 2018, he returned to a race held in Figueira da Foz. In September he ran his last race, returning home and to the Coliseum of Elvas. He died on December 31, 2018, at the Hospital da Cruz Red, in Lisbon, welcoming everyone who knew him. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its greatest grief to Joaquim Bastinhas' family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes against the NAP and abstentions from BE, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u182	We passed to Vote No 700 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Carlos Veiga Pereira, who will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u183	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Carlos Vega Pereira died at the age of 91, a prominent figure in the Portuguese political and journalistic landscape of the 20th century. Carlos Veiga Pereira was born in Sumbe, Angola, in 1927. During high school time, he was director and editor of the Mefisto, a newspaper edited by students of the Salvador Correia High School, in opposition to the organ of the Portuguese Youth. At the university, he was editor of Via Latina, organ of the Academic Association of Coimbra, and director of Meridiano, of the House of Students of the Empire. In the 1950s he collaborated with several journals, including The First of January, Illustrated Diário, República e Diário de Noticias. Exiled in Paris, he collaborated with Agenzia France-Presse, he worked at the Centre de Formation des Journalistese at the French Broadcasting and Télévision Office, which also included one of the world's most famous newspapers, Le Monde, where he became widely known for his work on the Parisian cana neighborhoods. In 1973, he returned to Portugal, entering the Lisbon Diário. In 1975, he was appointed Director of the RTP and in 1979 became Editor and Director of Information of the ANOP ( Portuguese News Agency ), remaining in this function until 1992. It was during that period that it was a member of the Press Council and served at the General Council of the Journalists'Union, and was its first President. With a career dedicated to journalism, his life was no less devoted to defending fundamental freedoms and human rights and to combating racial discrimination, which repeatedly led him to imprisonment and exile. Carlos Veiga Pereira was actively involved in the campaign of Humberto Delgado, he was part of the Patriotic Action Board, he was representative, already in exile, of the Patriotic Front of National Liberation, leader of the Revolutionary Action Movement and defender of the independence of the Portuguese colonies. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to a life dedicated to journalism and to the struggle for freedom and manifests to the family, friends and colleagues of the profession of Carlos Veiga Pereira the most significant regret over its disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u184	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 703 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PSD members ) — Despite the death of João Martins Vieira. This vote will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u185	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On December 29, John Martins Vieira died at the age of 79. Natural Lisbon, father of two children, João Martins Vieira devoted part of his life to local power, to the service of the population and, in particular, to the City Hall of Lisbon, where he served as municipal deputy, representing his party, the CDS, and the councillor, with the furour of culture, in the mandate of the then President, the engineer Nuno Krus Abecasis. Graduated in Economics by the Higher Institute of Economics and Management and Masters in Strategic Management by the Higher Technical Institute of the University of Lisbon, he had an intense professional activity, mainly linked to the tourism sector, performing management and administration functions in the Tourism Section of the Society of Geography of Lisbon, the General Commissioner of FIL and the Portuguese Industrial Association ( AIP ). It was at the service of the AIP, as Vice-President, that contributed to the launch of the first tourism fair in Portugal. of its extensive professional course, there are also relevant passages by the World Bank and the European Union, where it has developed audit actions, training and studies on large public enterprises, in the African continent and in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. He remained an ally to the academic environment during part of his professional life, having taught at the University of Lisbon Lusophona and produced dozens of articles on the tourism sector. Anyone with him contacted, in teaching or politics, laments the disappearance of this good and dedicated man, and will never forget the example he left them. The Assembly of the Republic recognizes João Martins Vieira's dedication to the country and in particular to the city of Lisbon, which noted him in Portuguese society, and presents to all his family and friends his heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u187	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u188	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u189	To announce that on the vote on vote No 699 / XIII / 4. I did not at the time indicate that I would present a statement of vote. Again, I apologize for this interruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u190	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with Vote No 704 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD member ) — Despite the death of Joaquim Romero Magalhães. I ask the Secretary, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira, to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u191	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The former Member died at the Constituent Assembly, Joaquim Romero de Magalhães. Born in Loule, 1942, he graduated in history from the Faculty of Letters of the University of Coimbra in 1967, he was a teacher of high school and professor of the Faculty of Economics of the University of Coimbra, where he did. In student times, he participated in academic association, then one of the most expressive forms of civic and political intervention in a country in dictatorship. Member of the Republic of Prakistan, Joaquim Romero Magalhães was president of the Theatre of Students of the University of Coimbra and president of the Academic Association of Coimbra in the critical years of 1962 and 1963. He defended the thesis of undergraduates in 1967 and later, after a period as a high school teacher, he began his career as a teacher at the Faculty of Economics of that University in 1973. There he provided evidence of doctorate in 1984 and aggregation in 1993. He was a professor in 1994, and since 2012 he retired professor. Right in his youth, then 34 years of age, he made a decisive contribution to the new phase of national life as an elected member of the Constituent Assembly in 1975. Later, between 1976 and 1978, he would be State Secretary of the Pedagogic Guidance and President of the Coimbra Municipal Assembly, between 1986 and 1998. Between 1985 and 1999 he held leadership positions in the Faculty of Economics, either as President of the Governing Council, or as President of the Scientific Council. He was invited to attend the École des Hautes Étudesen Sciences Sociales de Paris ( 1989 and 1999 ), the University of São Paulo ( 1991 and 1997 ) and Yale University ( 2003 ), as well as a foreign associate of the Brazilian Historical and Geographic Institute ( 2001 ). It was also because of its pragmatic qualities, but also because of its sensitivity adjusted to the exercise of diplomacy, which was entrusted to it the presidency of the National Commission for the Commemorations of Portuguese Discoveries, with the position of Commissioner-General, between 1999 and 2002. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute and manifests to the family and friends of Joaquim Romero Magalhães, as well as the Socialist Party, its most sorry for its disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we vote and are present in the galleries the family of Joaquim Romero Magalhães, I would like to present my solidarity to you. Now, yes, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 702 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PAR and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Of solidarity and regret for the victims of the tsunami in Indonesia. I ask the Secretary, Mr Moisés Ferreira, to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u193	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the tragic consequences of the tsunami that hit the Sunda Strait on the night of December 22, 2018, causing more than four hundred fatalities, thousands of injured and widespread material damage, particularly in the Pandeglang region, Banten Province, Java. A tragedy that occurs to other remarkable natural disasters in the recent past in the country — the earthquakes in the islands of Lombok in August, and of Celebes in late September — that so many victims and destruction have caused, in parallel with the immense pain caused to the Indonesian people. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest solidarity to the people and to the Indonesian authorities and conveys its sorrow to the families of the victims. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to Vote No 697 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the NAP and signed by PS Members ) — Condemning the departure of Japan from the International Whaling Commission and the return to commercial whaling, which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u195	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last December 26, 2018, Japan formally announced its departure from the International Whaling Commission, an intergovernmental body established in 1946, with the aim of ensuring adequate conservation of whale populations, and since 1986, decreed the end of commercial hunting of these cetaceans as an urgent and necessary conservation measure. The exit of Japan from the CBI, International Whaling Commission, was defined with the aim of the country's official resumption of commercial whale fishing as early as the second half of this year of 2019, calling into question a work of decades advocated by the various governments and the scientific community in the way of preservation and the pursuit of sustainability. This decision was accompanied by many criticisms and disapprovals by the international community, including non-governmental environmental organizations such as Greenpeace and Sea Shepherd Conservation Society. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its disappointment and condemns this decision taken by Japan, calling for this country to return to the International Whaling Commission and comply with the principles of sustainability defined by this body. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u196	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u197	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u198	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u199	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just been adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u200	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We passed to Vote No 701 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Congratulations on the promotion of Regina Mateus General Officer, who will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u201	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On December 27, 2018, a promotion ceremony was held in the Senior Air Force State at the post of Brigadier-General of Colonel Regina Mateus. Brigadier-General Regina Mateus is the first woman to take office as Officer-General in the history of the Portuguese Armed Forces. Brigadier-General Regina Mateus is a doctor and since 23 July 2018 he has been the Director of the Armed Forces Hospital, who has been entering the Air Force for 24 years, and has even promoted the oldest colonel of the Armed Forces. He was born in 1966, in Maputo, attended primary school in Mozambique, Rodesia and Figueira da Foz. After finishing high school, he attended the medical course at the University of Coimbra, completed in 1991, then taking the course of Aeronautical Medicine. In 2003, he headed the military health team for the NATO Tactical Assessment exercise in Ovar. He also headed the Monte Real Air Base Health Centre and the Air Force Aeronautical Medicine Center. Taking part in the qualification of Air Force Protection Evaluator in the field of health, he participated in several NATO missions of this nature in Portugal, Greece, Turkey or Spain. In 2017, women constituted 11 % of the Navy military, 9 % of the Army and 15 % of the Air Force. The increase in the number of women in the Armed Forces was marked by 2000, at which point it stabilized, increasing even more sharply since 2004, the year in which the compulsory military service ended and the recruitment became exclusively voluntary. For the symbolism of this promotion, both for the importance of the Armed Forces and for equality of rights, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the promotion of Regina Mateus to Brigadier-General, being the first woman in the history of the Armed Forces to reach the patent of Officer-General. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u202	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote for the Draft of Deliberation No. 23 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — The fifth amendment is made to Decision No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January ( Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations) and to their publication. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1885 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit to the Assembly the amounts of the Decentralisation Fund in 2019. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, the votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote together three requests submitted by the PS, the PCP and the BE respectively, asking for the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without voting, for a period of 90 days, of the Drafts of Law No 843 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Housing Bases Act, 1023 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Housing Bases Act and 1057 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Housing Base Law. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Bills are down to 11. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 895 / XIII / 3. a ( BE) — Recognizes and regulates the profession of criminologist(a). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u203	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u204	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u205	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u206	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 1054 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the scheme for the professional exercise of criminologists. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 959 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establishs impediments in the decision on processes of institutionalization of children and young people at risk. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 150 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the regime for the exercise of private security and self-protection activity. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the PAN were adopted against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on the Proposal for a Law No 151 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend mandatory safety measures in restaurants or drinks establishments with dance spaces or rooms. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 149 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Consecrates the application of the tax enforcement procedure to the compulsory collection of costs, fines, fines and other amounts charged in court proceedings. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and The Greens and abstentions of the PSD, BE and CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on a request by the PS for a discharge from the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, without a 90-day vote of the Proposal for a Law No 153 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 12. the Commission. Mrs. Members, let us now vote together on the following draft resolutions: Nos 1898 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1912 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1923 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), cease-of-life of Decree-Law No 104 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of citizen care structures[ Parliamentary assessments No 72 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 99 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; paragraphs 1899 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1915 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1926 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), which ceases to apply to Decree-Law No 107 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of public parking.[ Parliamentary assessments No 73 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 102 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ] ; paragraphs 1900 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1908 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1919 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), which ceases to apply to Decree-Law No 100 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of communication[ Parliamentary Assessments No 74 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 85 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 95 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ] ; paragraphs 1901 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1911 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1922 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), which ceases to apply to Decree-Law No 103 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and intermunicipal entities in the field of support for volunteer firefighters[ Parliamentary assessments No 75 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 98 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; No 1892 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1914 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1925 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), which ceases to apply to Decree-Law No 106 / 2018 of 29 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of the management of public real estate without use[ Parliamentary Assessments No 76 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 89 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 101 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ] ; paragraphs 1902 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1906 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1917 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), which ceases to apply to Decree-Law No 98 / 2018 of 27 November, which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to municipal bodies in the field of the authorisation of exploitation of similar modalities of gambling or gambling and other forms of game[ Parliamentary assessments No 77 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 83 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 93 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; paragraphs 1893 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1910 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1921 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), cease-of-life of Decree-Law No 102 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to the bodies of the inter-municipal entities in the field of projects financed by European funds and investment capture programmes[ Parliamentary evaluations No 78 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 87 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 97 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ] ; paragraphs 1894 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1913 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1924 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), cease-of-life of Decree-Law No 105 / 2018 of 29 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal housing bodies[ Parliamentary assessments No 79 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 88 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 100 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ] ; paragraphs 1895 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1907 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1918 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), cease-of-life of Decree-Law No 99 / 2018 of 28 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to inter-municipal entities in the field of tourism promotion[ Parliamentary assessments No 80 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 84 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 94 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; paragraphs 1896 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1909 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1920 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), cease-of-life of Decree-Law No 101 / 2018 of 27 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies and inter-municipal entities in the field of justice[ Parliamentary assessments No 81 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 86 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) and 96 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) ; and paragraphs 1897 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), 1905 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) and 1916 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ), which ceases to apply Decree-Law No 97 / 2018 of 27 November, which implements the framework for the transfer of competence to municipal bodies in the field of maritime, river and lake beaches[ Parliamentary assessments No 82 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) and 92 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) ]. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira were rejected, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] Mrs. Members, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will take into account an opinion from the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-04.u207	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Lamega Labour Court, the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Viseu, Case No 627 / 12.8TTLMG, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr António Lima Costa ( PSD ) to intervene in the framework of the car in question. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 9 January, at 3 p.m. In point one, Law Proposal No 167 / XIII / 4 will be discussed in general. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals. In point 2, we will also, in general, appreciate Law Proposal No 168 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Other procedural arrangements within the administrative and tax jurisdiction. The general debate of the Proposal for a Law No 169 / XIII / 4 shall be followed by point three. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen the rights of suspected or accused minors in criminal proceedings by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 800. of point 4 is the general assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 170 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Establishs permitted uses of works for the benefit of blind persons by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1564 and describes the unauthorized public execution of commercially edited phonograms and videograms. In point five, Petition No 467 / XIII / 3 will be appreciated. a — ( National Federation of Teachers — FENPROF ) — They request the conclusion of a collective contract of work for private and cooperative education which complies with the provisions of the Basic Law and the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education. Finally, in point six, we will appreciate Petition No. 444 / XIII / 3. a (Cyprian Justo et al.) — They request the revision of the Health Bases Act. To all the hopes of a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 32 minutes.]]
