ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Our agenda begins with the discussion of the Draft Resolution No. 1635 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen palliative care. To open the debate and present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social consequences of the ageing population represent one of the most relevant and difficult political challenges facing the country. Today, in Portugal, more than 2 million people over 65 years of age and national projections estimate that in 2030 older people will represent more than one quarter of the total Portuguese population. Therefore, there are obvious risks that this demographic reality entails for the sustainability of our health and social protection systems. However, it is not always visible and evident the potential harmful consequences that complacency, nothing we do, can have in the quality of life of our older citizens, especially among the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u3	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u4	Today, Portuguese people over 65 are living with worse health and worse quality of life than the average of the citizens of the other countries of the European Union. More: we are by far the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) that less invests in the provision of continuous and palliative care. The Portuguese live more and more, but they live worse and worse. For all this, the PSD presents today, through the draft resolution under discussion, a set of recommendations addressed to the Government, with which we want to move towards the humanization of the responses of the National Health Service, particularly for people who live with chronic pain, terminal disease and end-of-life. Living has to be more than surviving. Citizens have the right to a quality of life. A first step that has been systematically promised, but never met by this government, is the creation of the status of the informal caregiver. Once and for all, it is time to recognize the important role of those who support their neighbors. Only in this way will we ensure that people can stay in their homes, with their families, with access to quality and safety health care. Even for patients with palliative needs, such care should be provided whenever possible at home. It is therefore critical that the Government fulfils its promise to put 100 Community palliative care teams into operation, and so far we have only two dozen teams on the ground. In fact, patient access to palliative care is far from universal reality, particularly among children and elderly people. of the 1000 palliative care beds required, we continue with less than 400 in national territory, many of which are managed by the social sector. Honestly, it comes out of interest of love to the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u5	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u6	We need less hollow words and less promises. We need action. In the face of the despair of the patients, we need the government to fulfil its mission and present solutions. It is therefore urgent to invest in the training of caregivers and in improving health care, making them more deserving, humanized and potentiators of true autonomy. It is urgent to respond in an appropriate time, with quality and proximity, to the needs of all those who need palliative care and who are in the end of life. In the face of the poor governance of the National Health Service, there is an urgent need for those who know how to govern. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u7	More inscriptions are expected. This is a project registered by the PSD Parliamentary Group and there will certainly be other parliamentary groups dealing with this issue. There is a tolerance of a few seconds before we move on to the second point, as is obvious. [[Pause.]] Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brings the debate to a draft resolution that recommends strengthening palliative care. We recall that already on 4 October the CFP, also concerned about palliative care provided in Portugal, unanimously approved a draft resolution proposing measures to strengthen palliative care. That is to say, we have also identified the need to intervene and improve this matter. It is true that more beds and palliative care units are needed; it is true that more community support teams are needed in palliative care; it is true that there is a lack of intra-hospital support teams in palliative care; it is true that we need more regulation and training. All this is true, but it is also true that certain measures and other measures have not been implemented so far are needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u10	And it's not just from now on. It is also true that one could and should have made more progress with regard to palliative care, however, this government, opposed to the dictatorship of the deficit, did not do so. The PSD, when he could have done it, have you regulated the law? He didn't. Have you constituted community support teams in palliative care, so necessary? He didn't. Did you create beds in public hospitals, indispensable to respond to needs? Not either. Have you trained and provided palliative care for sufficient professionals? Not either. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not only need human resources and materials. It is also necessary to speed up the reference. There is also a need for greater and better articulation between the different levels of care delivery and among all professionals, effectively functioning as a network. For the PCP, it is urgent that access to palliative care be guaranteed to those who need it most. Urgent answers are needed, because many of those who need palliative care do not have access to them simply because they do not exist. Care should preferably be guaranteed at home. We understand that, in parallel with the development of palliative care at hospital level, it is essential a clear bet in the development of home palliative care. The reduced and insufficient response to home care aggravates access to such care and simultaneously removes the freedom of choice of patients and their families, a right between hospital and home care. We understand, of course, that there must be more beds, more teams, more units. We defend measures that increase the number of professionals, measures that increase the number of Community teams, measures that ensure the necessary care. The establishment throughout the national territory of community support teams in palliative care is essential to ensure that the patient lives in his community and family environment. Support for informal caregivers is essential, developing a network of support for informal caregivers based on public services and training plans for all health professionals of awareness and, above all, early identification tools for patients with palliative needs. Palliative care cannot be left simply by palliative measures. [[Congrats from the PCP and the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Moreira spoke by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's get to the facts. It was said yesterday that this government did not give political centrality to patients in the end of their lives. Looking at this draft resolution, it is fair to ask, given its extension, whether it is the confession that it was, after all, the previous government to leave everything to do. We will not make that conclusion, because the partisan in these matters does not help anyone. It should be remembered that, in the context of the work of the petition yesterday, we have heard from those who rightly deserve the praise that the current government is doing and who makes this initiative redundant. The Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care 2019 - 2020 is ignored, and what is foreseen in it, in particular the extension of the response in beds and household teams and the increase in specific training in these areas. Until December 18, 2017, about 10,200 women and 5520 men, totaling 15,720 citizens, made their living will. And, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, contrary to what she said yesterday, is purely and simply false that there has been no disclosure of the vital will. The Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care places on the training in palliative care of all health professionals at pre and post-graduate level, because it is in this area that we have the real deficit. Let no one doubt that. Currently, with the exception of the Figueira da Foz District Hospital, all hospitals and local health units of the SNS (National Health Service) have an intra-hospital support team in palliative care with external consultation and are operating 21 community or home palliative care teams. On January 2, the competition for the admission of five doctors for the establishment of three new teams was completed at the ARS (Regional Health Administration ). There are 28 palliative care admission units. More recently, four pediatric palliative care teams have also been formed, others are organizing themselves and they are already caring for patients. The Plan allowed the territorial expansion of palliative care with a geographical coverage that is now 100 %. All the districts of mainland Portugal have at least one specific resource of palliative care, but there is still much to do to reach the universal coverage of the population. Thus, in the biennium 2019 - 2020, particular attention and encouragement will be given to the implementation of new community or home palliative care teams and to the greater differentiation of teams currently in operation, with the strengthening of professionals and the greater requirement in their theoretical training and, above all, practice. PSD does not know that by Order No. 3254 / 2018 a committee was set up at DGS ( Directorate-General of Health ) to monitor the implementation of the differentiated intervention model in prolonged mourning. The status of the informal caregiver is being finalized. And, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, statements of love to the National Health Service? Oh, my God! It must be influenced by the statement by Dr. Manuela Ferreira Leite, who said it was the PSD that made the National Health Service. Don't! The National Health Service was created despite the votes against the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u13	For an intervention, you have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First and foremost, I thank the PSD for bringing this debate to plenary. The issue of palliative care and its necessary strengthening and investment is indeed of the greatest importance. It is true that there is an ageing population in Portugal. It is true that Portugal has seen an increase in average life expectancy, which is a very positive indicator, but the last few years of life are usually spent with many diseases, with little quality of life, and these two factors therefore require a greater public response to palliative care. We agree on the causes and agree on the diagnosis. More beds are needed, including public beds in palliative care. We have come to present in this House several proposals in this regard, in particular to take advantage of the availability that exists in some units of the National Health Service, namely buildings that are owned by the Ministry of Health and are not being used for health functions. We want and believe that it is possible to have more public beds taking advantage of these availability and taking advantage of the heritage of the Ministry of Health that is unemployed and returned. We agree that it is also necessary to strengthen human resources, professionals, workers, particularly on Community teams and on intra-hospital teams, particularly on Community teams, because the aim must always be to ensure comfort in the end of life, at home or with their families. Therefore, this investment is necessary in professionals, in teams that can make this household and this follow-up. Of course, all of this cannot be done, nor was it done in the past, with the disinvestment that happened in the National Health Service. Let's be honest. The fact that they cut EUR 1000 million in the National Health Service did not make the investment, did not allow the investment that was necessary in response to palliative care. It is necessary, yes, to invest in the National Health Service and in teams, professionals and beds in public hospitals to strengthen responses to palliative care. That is what we want, too, and we will follow all the proposals that we put forward in this regard. We are very clear about this. I conclude by saying, however, that end-of-life care must be primarily done at home. The Left Block presented a bill to develop the status of the informal caregiver. Therefore, we appeal to all parties that enable, as soon as possible, the approval of this bill of the Left Block to give a very essential response to all people who need these and other care at home. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u15	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They believe that it is with genuine emotion that I greet all parliamentary groups for their interventions so far, but especially the PSD for bringing this initiative. In fact, since 2009 the CDS has been proud to have brought to this House the theme of palliative care, when many still felt it was a matter that did not concern anyone and that it had nothing to do with political decisions. We are truly proud, with humility, of the course we have taken so far, alongside the sick people and their families, to fight for more and more palliative care for all Portuguese, which, unfortunately, is far from being a reality. Therefore, it is good for all the benches to gather to realize that it is also in the hands of this House to do more for the dignity of people, to help them live with more quality and comfort to which they are entitled, because these are not second care, they are not minor care in the health system. It is a true national plan to talk about palliative care and how we treat the most vulnerable, so I would like to greet health professionals who, today, are dedicated to palliative care, the Portuguese Palliative Care Association, the National Palliative Care Commission, because they are indeed an example of resilience, particularly in the last three years. Indeed, we are told that palliative care is a priority for this government and there is certainly work and effort in this regard. But that is not what we are judging, it is the shortage of resources that are still being put at the disposal of these teams, because, yes, it is possible to announce coverage in all districts; however, for 100 patients, there are only 1 doctor and 1 nurse. Therefore, in the interests of truth and rigour, it is necessary to realize, indeed, that the human resources that exist are insufficient to ensure the quality of care. These patients are not second patients, they do not need second responses. It is justified and deserves to be treated by truly trained and trained professionals and not if they are offered successive or second responses, with a care package that often has nothing to do with palliative care. So, yes, we will insist that human resources are insufficient and that we need to give means, because otherwise it is inconsequential. It is not enough for the government to announce a priority and not provide these media teams. In fact, the national strategic plan itself provided 100 teams in the community, where, as they said well, patients may be in good condition, if supported — they and their families — but, for a target of 100 teams, we arrived at the end of 2018 with 19. This is not to show priority, by any means! So we want to insist, in line with what the CDS has done, with the law of the rights of people in the end of life...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u17	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, in line with what the CDS has done, with the law of the rights of people in the end of life and with the status of the caregiver, in which, since 2016, we have been insisting, we have asked the PSD and also other parties that do not cease to bet in this area. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u19	To close this debate, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u20	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mr João Dias of the PCP, Mrs Isabel Moreira of the PS, Mr Musa Ferreira of the Left Block, and Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto of the CDS, for the questions they raised. I must say that we do not know at all the results of the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care for 2017 - 2018, defined by the Government, because they have never been published, despite the deadline ended on December 31st, and we do not find the strategic plan for 2019 - 2020, as much as we try to look for it, because it has never been published. This is not a priority for this government, and unfortunately this is in the eyes of all. In fact, the PCP and the Block presented various projects to make this matter a priority for the country and the PSD voted in favour of them. And what did the government do with them?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u21	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u22	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u23	He completely ignored them! And what did the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block do before that? They approved Budget after Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u25	It was essential that, at the time of the Budget, this matter should be taken as a priority, which was not. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u26	What did you guys do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u27	More: Mrs. Isabel Moreira came to say that the PSD didn't do anything. Well, if today there is a National Palliative Care Network, it is thanks to the previous government. More: if we are to see, in the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, that gives a lot of response in the area of palliative care, more than 2000 beds, of the 8,000 in total, were opened in the time of the previous government. More: this has been done during the time of the troika, before the four years of your government, which is supposed to restore all social peace and solve the problems of our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u28	Mrs Isabel Moreira, as Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto said, we have serious human resources problems. In fact, the government has published training requirements, but we continue with only 62 doctors with specific training in this area and we have support centres that provide palliative care without doctors or nurses with specific training. So the time has come!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u29	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u30	I'm done now, Mr. President. With regard to end-of-life responses and social responses, in a context of demographic ageing, it is essential that we join in this House. As for the status of the informal caregiver, which the Government has never met and which now wants to comply, they approve the proposed basic health law presented by the PSD, which also includes it, so that we can solve this matter once and for all. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u31	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of draft resolution No 1635 / XIII / 3. the, we move to the second item on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of the draft resolution No 1939 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — National Investment Programme 2030. To open the debate on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The national investment plan translates designs and objectives for strengthening the development of the country, reflects the desires and desires of the living forces of Portuguese society and regions across the continent, supported by hundreds of public hearings and more than 1500 contributions, and assumes a commitment to the recent past, integrating initiatives and projects defined by another government, with the certainty that Portugal has no profit by spending energy and installing a debate that spoils the planning effort and compromises the genuine desire for consensus. PETI ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ) was the multi-year investment instrument created by the PSD/CDS government. The PS did not oppose the Plan and this government, after correcting some structural deficiencies, being the most problematic financing deficit, assumed the essential of projects as theirs and as a will of many Portuguese. Therefore, Mr President, the first major step towards consensus was taken by the Socialist Party by taking PETI as an integral part of this project. The national investment plan is thus a robust plan, which ensures several levels of articulation, either at the global level or in the European framework, or also in line with the national planning instruments and the public policies programmed. Therefore, this national investment plan is not the Government of the Socialist Party, it is a plan of all Portuguese and for the whole country. It is a plan that will move into the hands of at least three governments — a whole decade — which, regardless of the party colour, will be able to carry out, with the eyes set in the future, the best for the citizens of the Portuguese continent, with the assurance that the best scenarios and the best alternatives have been studied, within the framework of an uncompromising budget restriction. It is a decisive planning exercise to ensure that investments are well executed. It is an effort to correct the cost of hesitations that over many years have compromised decisive projects for the development of the country. We all know what it costs a non-decision and, indeed, the Portuguese know that they would live better if the structural decisions of the major projects for the country were taken at the right time, with the broad consensus for their balanced execution and without any controversy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u34	What motivates this government is to be sure that planning is no less important than executing and that good planning is a way to build well. The new airport project is one of the examples that reflects concerns about the consequences of profound differences of opinion on what to do and when to do and well portrays the cost of a decision in the right time. The aim of the Socialist Party's Government is to contribute so that something similar does not happen again, for the sake of the country and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, Mr President, the national investment plan is not just an arbitrary list of projects and investments, it is the right alignment to make good use of nearly 22 billion euros financed by the State budget, through the European Union and private funds. The national investment plan takes into account the strategic designs that I think are already consensualized — cohesion, competitiveness and innovation and sustainability — and the four most appropriate axes to give body and content to these designs, which should not raise any controversy about their currentity and relevance: mobility and transport, the environment, energy and recreation. Those who read the Government document may understand the tremendous effort to ensure that investments in these areas respond to the diagnosis of the state of the country in each of the sectors or subsectors and trends associated with these sectors, in order to ensure measures, initiatives and investments in line with trends in the future. It is also natural that such a plan requires options, that it sets criteria and that, therefore, it cannot be all that everyone wants. But this being the reality, which is anchored in the country's obvious difficulties of not having money for everything, there should be room for manoeuvre, ability to adapt and review, in order to prevent a good plan, still largely consensualized, from being a vest of forces. We believe that the 10 years to implement a stable plan and commitment between parties should not prevent combinations from changing contexts that help to do better, in line with future trends and perhaps with less and more efficiently. It is in this framework that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is not indifferent to the demands of the various banks to promote the enlargement of the debate, to deepen the options and to establish the appropriate conditions for a robust majority associated with this national investment plan. Therefore, with the nature with which the Government has integrated the PETI, with the normality with which it has received the contributions of Portuguese society through its most representative institutions, and with the certainty that it has drawn the strategic path and the objectives of this plan, in conjunction with the commitments set out in the external and internal frameworks, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, as already mentioned by its President, considers that there are conditions for a more fine discussion in the respective parliamentary committee. There will therefore be more time and more capacity for analysis among other structures in the country, so that Portugal can have an investment strategy that removes the partisan noise and the ongoing controversy that distracts those who execute and compromises the effectiveness, efficiency and added value of the major infrastructures in the country. It is in these terms that we fully agree that this draft resolution goes down to the committee responsible, to initiate the final round of inter-party debate, before its submission to the Higher Council of Public Works for approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u35	Mr Pedro Marques, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country's difficulty in building consensus around major public works is well known. Each Government tends to tear down the plans of the previous government and make new plans which, ironically, often do not differ much from the plan that had previously been broken. As a result, the large infrastructure projects the country needs have been successively postponed. How long did Alentejo wait for the barrier of Alqueva, what do we know today to be so important to its development? Oh, my God! The country needs and the Portuguese require of us agreements and commitments around the large infrastructures. That is why, when we arrived at the government, we made a firm decision not to break the previous plans just to make plans with our signature. It was because we took this option to execute PETI that the works were not postponed again and after we carried out the studies and projects that we did not find when we arrived at the government, we launched the contests and put on the ground the works that are modernizing Portugal. Well more than half of PETI's projects are completed, in work or in the process of work, and on the day we move forward to one of the consensual projects but which, curiously, did not end up in the final version of PETI, the mobility system of the Mondego, I also want to remind the Members and the Ladies. Members who started the preparation of the National Investment Programme, which then defines investment projects for the next decade. in this sense, in July last year, we started a wide process of civil society auscultation, with the aim of collecting contributions to the National Investment Program. This participatory process has certainly enriched the work of the Government and of the public administration institutions and can thus gather much information and broad support from economic and social actors, which is what we expect in the future. But we have also been working for a long time here to reach the broadest political consensus. I said this from the first hour and we took the initiative to schedule a debate here in the Assembly of the Republic and invited political agents to present their proposals and their vision for the National Investment Programme. We held meetings with all parliamentary groups, in which we presented the National Investment Programme and we agreed that the country needs strategic infrastructure for its development. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are pleased to hear the intervention of the Socialist Party expressing openness to create conditions here, in the House of Democracy, that this extended and consensual vote is at least a real possibility. The country needs and the Portuguese really require this commitment capacity between the parties, among the political actors. This National Investment Programme implements strategic development options, already defined in the strategic agreement defined for Portugal 2030, where we incorporate a development strategy for the next decade. With regard to this strategic planning instrument, this preparation of the European negotiation was already possible to establish a broad consensus, which we value and which involved the greatest party to the opposition. The National Investment Programme is thus an instrument for implementing this strategy, defining projects, their budgets and their sources of funding and ensuring that all projects there have sources of funding allocated and is not just a list of wishes of any government or majority of parliament. It is a Programme that promotes the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy, through investment in railways and ports, which responds to such decisive areas as decarbonisation or energy transition and also the capacity and capacity-building of the Porto-Lisboa railway axis or the bet on public transport. The Programme also promotes the modernization and electrification of railway lines, which strengthen territorial cohesion, such as the Alentejo Line to Beja or the Douro Line to Pocinho. It also creates essential investments for territorial cohesion now in the road sector, with projects such as the IC35, the IC31, the Via do Thamega, the linkage of the capitals of the districts of Portalegre or Beja to structural pathways or, for example, the construction of the investment between Sines and A2. But it also includes the important programme for the development of cross-border, rail and rail links to be coordinated with the Spanish Government, and an extended programme for missing proximity links that reinforce territorial cohesion. The National Investment Programme is therefore a decisive programme for territorial cohesion, to bring the most distant populations closer together and to make Portugal a more just and more cohesive country. We therefore hand it over to this Parliament, which is convinced of the responsibility of this act and of the discussion that follows. We believe that the work of the Members of Parliament and of the Members of this House will be done. Members will be decisive in this desire to continue to build a better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u37	Six Members are registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The Minister has informed the Bureau that he will answer together. Thus, to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u38	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, today Mr Minister does not really bring us a National Investment Programme, he does, yes, bring us a national plan of intentions...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u39	That's what you always presented!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u40	...and what is serious is that the government has not done what it should have done and is now promising what it will not definitely do. And, Mr. Minister, the country has memory,... [[Here, here!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u41	...the country still remembers this style. You are copying a style that was the style of José Socrates, the government of which, in fact, was part,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u42	... that he is now doing school with Minister Pedro Marques! Mr Minister, I will raise a number of questions. On Railway 2020, we are talking about a EUR 2, EUR 7 billion plan that should be implemented by 2020. At present, of these EUR 2, EUR 7 billion are implemented EUR 158 million — 7 %, Minister! I even bless you: we know that there is a difficulty with the European Commission on the Aveiro-Salamán line. If we take that line, the implementation of the Programme is about 9 %. What does Minister Pedro Marques do? In all the openings, in all the works that he says he will perform appears with the helmet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u43	Did you want it to be without a helmet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u44	...but then, work done, nothing! The Minister came to such a ridiculous position that, when the Nine-Barcelos line was electrified, the catenary was linked to the Minister's train ride and then, that afternoon, it was shut down and it is not being used. [[PSD laughter.]] You know what the Barcelos Journal said, Minister? He said the Minister had gone to Barcelos "to play trains"! Mr Minister, in the railroad we already know what your legacy is: little work, a lot of bullshit; little work, a lot of bullshit; little work, a lot of shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u46	But, Minister, let's talk, then, about the current programme, to PETI 3 +. Again, we are talking about a programme that had a global allocation of EUR 6068 million, which was to be implemented by 2020, plus the n3, and now says the Confederation of Construction that of the EUR 6 billion are executed 539 million. We're talking about a 9% execution. So many promises, few works! [[PS protests.]] And in fact, we already know this style. It was the style of the government of José Socrates, who now makes school with Minister Pedro Marques!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u48	What is this plan? This plan is the future promise of what Mr. Minister does not want to do while he is in office. Let me give you three examples. First example: IC35 is a very important work that links Penafiel to Entre-Rios, an essential work for the district of Porto, which was foreseen in PETI 3 + and which should be completed in 2017. When you arrived at the government, you suspended the tenders that existed. I asked you here in Parliament when the work would be completed and you said that this work would be completed until 2018. What is the government doing now? Promise this work by 2030. Place the IC35 in the missing links until 2030. Second example : the IP3, which should be completed by 2019, what does the government now say? That will conclude it until 2028. Third example: the West Line, which should be completed by 2019, what does the Government say now? In the national plan of intentions, it goes to 2025. Therefore, Mr. Minister does not do what he should have done, promises what he will not do, and Portugal has seen this style, was the style of José Socrates, whose government you were part of and who now teaches school with Minister Pedro Marques. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Minister speaks a lot of consensus and I want to ask him a question: he is available to take this plan and say, work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u49	He's not gonna say anything! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u50	... when will he launch it, when he makes the contest, what word will he put on each of these works? It is that the CDS has already presented its programme here, through a draft resolution, identifying which works and investments we consider to be priority. The government is available not to say that there is a payment for the missing links, but to inform which works it will perform and when? Oh, my God! It is because otherwise, Minister, once again, we know what will happen. The country knows this style, it was the style of José Socrates, who now teaches school with Minister Pedro Marques. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u51	Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u52	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Minister and his team and the Socialist Party on the presentation of the draft resolution on a subject which is highly relevant to the future of the country, a matter which the Socialist Party itself classifies, and well, of strategy for the next decade. Mr. Carlos Pereira said right here, in front of us, that it is a plan for three governments and what is most surprising is that the legislative initiative presented is a draft resolution which, with some kindness, the Socialist Party agrees to go down to the committee to be discussed in the field of expertise. This circumstance actually causes a lot of perplexity, because, Minister, a National Investment Programme for a decade, 2030, needs a lot of reflection...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u53	A lot of study!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u54	... and with much participation of civil society, needs a lot of reflection on the alternatives that exist for each investment project and needs a lot of political debate. Mr Minister, this political debate on the knee, I repeat, made on the knee, with the argument that there is a need to find political consensus has a number of problems. The first is that Mr Minister, in order to avoid what previously happened, which was the lack of strategic reflection in the country, in which each party enters a kind of public tender to see who is proposing more investment projects here or there, in a kind of unbridled competition which has no strategy behind him, Mr Minister, I repeat, said that the Government took a strategic initiative - that of a strategic nature too - that was to create the Higher Council of Public Works, which in its joint approved by the Government, says in particular in Article 4. the, which the Superior Council of Public Works has an obligation to issue a non-binding but mandatory opinion on investment projects of more than EUR 75 million. Mr Minister, the financial envelope that the Socialist Party announces in the draft resolution it presents is EUR 21, EUR 9 billion, thus well above EUR 75 million. The question I ask you, Minister and Mr. Members of the Socialist Party, it is in the sense of knowing where is the mandatory prior opinion that the Higher Council of Public Works should issue. of the Superior Council of Public Works, what is known is that it has only taken possession of its President, Eng. Natercia Cabral, who, in fact, is very priced and valued as a transport technique, but where are the others? Where are the other members of the Higher Council for Public Works, whose powers, by decree of the Government, are to issue a mandatory opinion on investment programmes of more than EUR 75 million? Mr. Minister and Mr. Members of the Socialist Party, that is, as it is usually said, "take a larger step than the leg". But when you take the greater step than the leg, as Mr. Prime Minister says, well, we run the risk of stamping ourselves in the next corner. What the Socialist Party presents as an enunciation of the National Investment Programme 2030 is a series of titles, of statements, in which part of them already included the Railway 2020 programme. The Minister, in the National Investment Programme 2030, announces for the transport and mobility package an amount of EUR 4 billion. The question I leave...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u55	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, but the permitted regime tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. The question I leave is the following: of this value, what is the money that passes from the Railway 2020 programme to the National Investment Programme 2030? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u57	Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, Minister, a national investment plan is a single instrument for cohesion and development of Portugal and Portuguese. It is an instrument for promoting equal opportunities among all, there is no doubt, and this national investment plan, with more than EUR 20 billion, is not a cohesion plan or development plan for Portugal. More: the Bragança district, in particular, where I was elected, receives no more than a few migalhas. Forgetting, drifting, omission, is what the populations of the Bragança district and their autarchs feel, in particular, as regards this investment. For example: the Vinhais and Vimios roads passing through Bragança, Vinhais-Bragança and Vimio-Bragança, despite their already planned and developing study, do not appear in the investment plan. As for logical works, which would be to complete, in the Valley of Vilaireça, IP2, nothing is said and, in connection with the links, in the district of Bragança, transnational to Spain, nothing is mentioned. Mr Minister, this national investment plan for the Northeast is indeed scarce. So I ask: what does this government have against the populations of the Bragança district not to make the investment it should make? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u59	It is the time of Mr Luís Testa, PS, to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Minister, the Socialist Party today decided to bring this debate to the Assembly of the Republic in order to raise the need for consensus and a commitment on the real needs of the country in terms of public works. The Socialist Party and the PS Government assume this need as frank, true, reasonable and necessary. The PS Government has made commitments to all parties and to all parliamentary groups. instead, we have seen the debate, the other parliamentary groups already think about the post-PNI, they already think about the post-2030, they already think about the post-Legislation and admit that they will continue to be part of the opposition, because not even if they want to compromise with the current challenges of the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys, the will of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to refine measures necessary for national development is a commitment established from the first hour. You have the assurance that we, in this House, try every day that this commitment is on the agenda. Well, it remains for the PS Parliamentary Group to ask the other parties, the CDS-PP and the PSD, what they want to do in the future: establish commitments with the PS and with the current government or remain intertwined with the one who has been a VV reduction. Ex., i.e. opposition to the opposition? I also ask the Government whether it will or will not go the way in establishing the commitment and acquiring greater wills than the mere will of the political struggle, which is redundant in the legislation itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u61	Also to ask for clarification, Mr. José Carlos Barros, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, with this government proposal on structural investments to be launched in the next decade, the Algarve has again had bad news. As an example, we see a fundamental subsector for the mobility of the region: the railway. In 4000 million of the Railway Programme, zero for the reformulation of the Algarve Line, in an area where investment would be structural and structural. This programme could only be bad and territorially unbalanced, but, Minister, in the case of the Algarve, it is insulting! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u63	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u64	Mr President, Minister, a plan of this nature as is the national investment plan 2030, and because we are talking about objectives that we have at national level and that are fundamental to pursue, like that of territorial cohesion, it is crucial that, when building a plan of this nature, the impact that it can have on a priority national objective, which is, in this specific case, territorial cohesion, namely the fight against regional asymmetries. I would like you to tell us whether the impact assessment on the necessary territorial cohesion that we have to build is made through this 2030 NIP, as you think that in 2030 the country will be different in this respect and how we have contributed to reducing regional asymmetries through a set of planned investments. On the other hand, the Minister knows by colour that the Greens consider rail to be a decisive tool in combating regional asymmetries that are fattened by the country. in this sense, it is decisive — we said it and worked for it from the beginning of the legislature — to reverse the logic of the past, which was to devalue the railway, close the railway lines, dismiss the populations and territory of this means of transport, fundamental to, for example, contribute to the fight against climate change. Thus, if it was important to leave behind what was the logic of the past, of closing and devaluing the national rail network, then a political will was needed for a financial reinforcement in the investment of the railway. In fact, this 2030 NIP brings this financial reinforcement, but it is not enough, Minister, it is not enough, because we need to realize that the financial package, if not implemented, is worth little — and it does not shrink the shoulders, Minister — it must be executed. More: it is essential that you be ambitious. We understand that the government is sinning because it does not have the ambition that the country needs. It speaks in many studies and in little realisation, necessary for the reopening of some railway lines that have been closed and that are well needed for the populations. It is not ambitious, for example, when it proposes electrification of the railway line Casa Branca-Beja, but does not extend this extension to Funcheira. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u65	Mr Minister, this ambition is fundamental, this strategic vision, because in 10 years much can be done, but 10 years is already there, Minister! So, basically, we need to put our sleeves together and get us to work. But if this strategic vision remains so short, then, not in 2040, not in 2050, and we need the dynamics of the territory and that ambition. Even at the end, I wanted to say to the Minister the following: do not make decisions like the one the government wants to take regarding the new airport that the government wants to see located in Montijo. It is necessary to make decisions with awareness of the social, economic and environmental impacts and it is essential that, in the works of this grandeur, we say so, and of this scale, several locations are studied at the same size...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u66	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u67	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, it is necessary to study several locations at the same size, be correct, so that they do not cost us too much in the future, because, Minister, speed is not a criterion for sustainability. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u68	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I do not know whether you find my answers interesting or whether your questions were merely a parliamentary report, but if you want to stop with the parliamentary reports and pay attention to the debate, I will be available to clarify it and I think that would be very interesting.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u70	Minister, even patience has limits!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u71	The honourable Member has come here to make a political 'number', which is customary in himself and in his party, because that is how they make the parliamentary dispute. It is legitimate, it is the way the CDS works and makes politics, but, honourable Member, in the National Investment Programme, it cannot find the type of comparison it has made. In fact, the density of our road network did not justify including, for example, new road concessions with tolls, as you wanted to do with IP3, and this was one of your examples. The honourable Member asked a question about the IP3. The IP3 has been hired, but we did not do a motorway with tolls, as you wanted to do when you left the government in which, despite launching a first stone, what was done there was to launch a previous study for a road map with tolls. However, that is not what the Central Region has claimed from us. For the IC35, they left a contest for a work launched in which it circulated in a roundabout and turned back because they did not allow the connection to EN106. It was your way of doing works! Let's talk about execution. PETI has a performance of more than 50 % in terms of completed works or works being carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u72	It's so Socrates you don't even study the file!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u73	Ferrovia 2020, which is in the middle of its implementation—now I must say that it is ill-informed, because it only read the news of the newspaper—, goes up to 2021 in its programming; in fact, that information was in the plan from the beginning. If I had gone to see the plan and not just the news from the paper, I would have seen it. You know that Portugal 2020, as you just said, is called Portugal 2020 and is implemented by 2023. Why did you call it Portugal 2020, Member of the Commission? You see you missed a good chance not to make that comparison? You missed a great chance! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, Ferrovia 2020 is in the middle of its implementation, 2016 - 2021, and we have 40 % in the process of work, ongoing works or completed works. We have 40 percent.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u74	7% executed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u75	Mr President, is it normal to have 40% in the middle of the implementation process when the first two years were dedicated to carrying out the projects that we did not find in the Ministry? I don't think it's a bad execution! In the middle of the implementation period of the Programme we have 40 % of works launched, works in progress or works completed. Mr President, I have taken it that many of the works that you wanted to schedule at PETI so that they would have left them in terms of implementation! Mr Adam Silva, it is with all my sympathy that I am telling you that you are wrong because I have already received the CIM-TTM (Intermunicipal Community of the Lands of Trás-os-Montes) and told you, just as you must have said, because you must have also received them in Parliament, which made all the sense that the works for Vinhais and Vimios were discussed and evaluated. Territorial cohesion programmes of EUR 500 million are there. I myself told the CIM of the Trás-os-Montes Lands that it made sense that this kind of work was included in a EUR 500 million programme that is planned there for the missing links and for territorial cohesion. Mr. Member, cross-border links? EUR 200 million is provided for in the National Investment Programme for cross-border links. I told the CIM of the Trás-os-Montes Lands — I say it with all clarity and I believe that the honourable Member will say the same — that they had to be understood in terms of autarchs and territorial planning and, instead of wanting three or four connections to Castillay León from the Bragança district, we should fight for one or two. And let's make these connections in coordination with the Spaniards so that we don't have what happened to us in Quintanilla, where we did the highway to Quintanilla and stayed there. We want to work in consensus on the territory and also with the Spanish Government, and that is why the challenge is being launched to ensure that we all understand the stage of hearing, including with the opinion of the Superior Council of Public Works... Mr Deputy, I do not understand your astonishment. We have received hundreds and hundreds of contributions at the previous hearing phase that we have made and, before submitting the government document, because it is the Government that has the power to submit to the opinion of the Higher Council of Public Works, we decided politically to launch the challenge so that this Higher Council can evaluate the document with the greatest political consensus not to be the document of a party or a government, to be the most consensual document to be assessed by the Higher Council of Public Works. We want economic and social consensus and, of course, until we have a strategic environmental assessment of this document, we do not want the Government A or Party A document to be evaluated. We want it to be as much as possible for all of us not to be making a public assessment of a document in which we do not see ourselves politically, in which such division would remain...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u76	Attention to time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u77	Mr. President, I'll be done. In fact, we are in favour of consensus with concrete information on the issue of rail priority, which is in fact the largest programme of the National Investment Programme. It is our strategic bet, once again, in particular, the transport of passengers, in particular on regional cohesion and on the Porto-Lisboa axis. And, Mr President, with regard to the Algarve, you must do your best to see the programme better because there is the link of Faro airport to the rail network. And there's no reformulation of the Algarve line. You know why? Because this investment is to launch this year and is part of the ongoing investment in Railway 2020. Projects are launched, projects are under way...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u78	That's not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u79	I'm sure it's serious! It's investment to make now; it's not to do in the next decade! It's to do now! Our wager in the Algarve, in the revitalization of EN 125...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u80	Minister, I don't know what it's gonna be like, but I don't know how to stretch the time...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u81	...and at Faro Airport is happening now, sir! The same is true of the mobility system in Mondego, which was in fact our priority, whose competition we will launch on Monday. The same is true of the works of the Tua line, Mr. Adam Silva. Our priority in Bragança district...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u82	Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u83	... you see in the works of your line, which will finally advance; you see in Bragança's air career, in which we launched the competition for four years—the government of your party was interrupted for three years. This is the difference in the priority we give to the inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u84	We are moving on to the intervention stage. Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: A national investment plan is a relevant and important instrument, which shapes the policy options for a long time, which deserves a broad debate, which should encourage the participation of all in its definition, which requires consensus and which implies very strict in its options, at all levels, so that it can really be achieved. For this reason the PSD is available, as always — indeed, this was what we did in the adoption of the plan which was in force until 2020 and which at the time deserved a broad parliamentary consensus. It was about a year's work involving the participation of all partners at national level. when we start to define a new plan it is important to realize what has failed. Yes, a lot has failed to ensure that, within one year of the final deadline of the plan in force, only a little more than 20 % is implemented. In Ferrovia 2020, already rescheduled by this government in 2016, we have a physical execution rate of the very small and incipient work and, as the current majority does not like, the fact is that the abandonment to which this government voted public investment in this legislature is the main responsibility for this tiny execution. It was a political option to bring public investment to the lowest levels in recent decades in 2016 and 2017. They spoke a lot, they announced a lot, but they were incompetent, incompetent and they did not. Thus, the national investment plan for 2030 cannot be a document to hide this inability to carry out. This story of "now it will be" does not convince anyone and does not even dignify political action. We are three months away from starting the first electoral campaign of the year and the country is confronted with this urgent need to approve an investment plan for 2030. Why is it so fast now? They say there was a wide debate and work carried out throughout the country. Is half a dozen meetings the mirror of a broad national debate? It does not seem to us or the authors that the PCP is listening to in this process. Autarchs elected by various parties, who have claimed, loud and sound, that have not been attended, that this proposal does not compete for the interests of their populations and much less for the strengthening of national cohesion, which should be one of the main objectives of such a plan. For example, the CIM (intermunicipal communities) of the lands of Trás-os-Montes or the CIM of Douro, which publicly rejected the Government proposal. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the options are well-founded technically and that have faces that are technically and financially responsible for the projects; it is still necessary to know and understand why the explosion of the projects that have been proposed and that are absent from these plans; and it is essential that a schedule of physical and financial execution, year by year, of the projects, that which is absent from this document and that, as such, is no longer a starting point for a process that, in our view, is far from being completed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a contradiction in the agenda: on the one hand, the government that has not done what it should and is now in a hurry to announce a plan, which has a temporality that goes through this government and at least three more governments; and on the other hand, the agenda of those who consider that a policy instrument like this should favour the interests and future of the people. The PSD is not responsible for this contradiction and does not understand or accept that there is a sort of ultimatum in Parliament for 'the horse slaughter' to be pronounced promptly on this matter. I repeat: for a rigorous process of choices, based on clear options and shared by different partners we are available and motivated; for a simulation of debate and a multitude of options without the involvement of local and national partners we are not available. You, in this government, have not been able to execute a little more than EUR 6 billion, but now want to create the illusion that it is possible to move forward to a programme with more than EUR 20 billion where many technical justifications and a dubious and at least optimistic funding schedule are lacking. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I wanted the Socialist Party to rush and force this debate, so it is up to him to decide whether to continue in this unbridled rush or have the ability to do what the Government did not want or was able to do: to involve the country in a decision that conditions the investment options by 2030, without propaganda and without electoral proposals, but only on behalf of the future of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u86	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Portugal needs investment, especially public investment, capable of responding to the development needs of the productive apparatus, mobility of people and goods and the use of national resources and potential, territorial cohesion and environmental protection, combating dependencies, inequalities and injustices. over dozens of years PS, PSD and CDS converged in a direction of devaluation of this decisive component of national development with disastrous consequences on the economic and social fabric of the country, contributing to an increasingly unequal territory, to a fragile productive apparatus, for an economy that, over the last two decades, has average annual growth compared to GDP less than 1 %. In fact, public investment has been profoundly sacrificed in the billions of euros of public money that are delivered to economic groups on bank scandals, public-private partnerships and debt interest. At the present stage, the same submission to the euro and the European Union, which are assumed by PS, PSD and CDS, does not allow the country to decouple this reality: the increase in public investment, which should be a central option for the development of the country rather than being dependent on the tenths of the deficit in public accounts, as has happened. The so-called national investment plan by 2030, which was presented, although it focuses only on investments over EUR 75 million in transport and mobility, energy, water and environment in Continental Portugal, reflects an overall idea of the larger investments that the Government is planning for the next decade, where it is clear the insufficient and limited character of the global levels of public investment planned for such a long period, about EUR 21 billion, and which results in the postponement of a large number of investments over 2030. It is also evident that the mark of subordination to the interests of the economic groups is visible in various dimensions, such as the maintenance of so-called public-private partnerships as a basis for several planned investments and the strategic control of multinationals over this sector. The National Investment Programme 2030 ( PNI 2030 ) assumes that the management of the network of motorways, ports and airports, as well as the electricity network, is carried out through concessions to economic groups. It is urgent to break, clearly and decisively, with this State policy, followed for decades, of dismantling and privatization of functions that are theirs, with serious consequences for the country. The set of investments announced for the energy sector basically indicates new transfers of costs of investments in electricity and natural gas networks to consumers and shows the government's expectation that private capital, 80 % of the announced investment, will continue to invest in the business-incentived sector with high incomes and risk-free. As regards water and waste, the values indicated in the 2030 NIP are clearly insufficient for the temporal horizon to which they report, and the areas of the renewal and rehabilitation of networks together with the amount of intervention in a network of hydraulic infrastructures and action on the quality of the water masses are the main aspects to which attention should be given. The CFP participates in this debate constructively, with concrete proposals and today also presents its draft resolution, which will be a contribution to this discussion that continues in the Assembly of the Republic and the Country. We therefore propose, among other central issues: the realization of a rigorous and detailed balance sheet of the investments planned in PET ( Strategic Transport Plan ), PETI 3 + ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ) and the 2020 railway with a reasoned explanation of the delays and ions to be withdrawn ; the redefinition of the 2030 PNI, considering a systematic approach to investments and strategic options that are urgent and indispensable and that we deepen in our document; a policy that gives priority to collective and public transport, valuing it on individual transport, with the promotion of the reliability and security of the operation, strengthening intermodal character and metropolitan articulation; the commitment to priority to rail mode, in particular to the modernisation and elector of the railway; the reactivation of the merchant navy; the reconstruction of a strong public sector, universal and quality, as a condition for the development and sovereignty of the country, with the restoration of its public infrastructure, with the supervision of its public infrastructure, and the restoration of its strategic control. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The importance of many of the investments in the 2030 NIP is not denied or denied. Many of them correspond to the old demands of the populations, local authorities, of the national productive fabric, works whose realization, in many cases, will only sin because it is late. But a national investment plan is much more than a list of infrastructures; it is an opportunity to project the country that you want to have in the first half of the twenty-first century ; it is a time to enhance and extend the potential that this type of investments contains for the development of the national production apparatus, to free the country from dependence and subordination to the interests of monopolistic groups, to promote cohesion throughout the national territory, to respond to the fundamental problems that have been dragged and aggravated for years at the environmental level, to promote the project capacity, engineering, research and construction of our country. This is the meaning of the CFP proposal, for more and better investment, infrastructures, national production, options for a future Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u88	Mr Heitor de Sousa also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The Socialist Party is proposing today a discussion on the National Investment Programme 2030 which, in its understanding, will define the strategic investments that the country should launch in the next decade. We do not doubt that this plan cannot happen and be carried out in the best way possible, but that we believe that the decision of the Socialist Party to raise the opinion of the House on a pronouncement of this strategic programme is at least strange and, above all, extemporaneous. Strange, because it was the Socialist Party itself which, by the hand of Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, proposed and approved Resolution No. 34 / 2018, which created a possible committee for the definition of « Portugal 2030 strategy », within the framework of the multiannual financial framework of the European Union post-2020. However, this committee is still in the preliminary stage of drawing up a contribution to the definition of the « Portugal 2030 Strategy ». To define, now, such strategic investments for the country in the next decade is to pass a declaration of futility on to the works that the possible committee is trying to produce, regardless of what we may think of as correct or as inconsistent with what we know. I am talking about both the content of the report and, above all, the enormous constraints of European policy that are weighing on the process of defining the next multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027, which is the stamp of the current European Commission. This is extemporaneous, because apparently the Socialist Party, in this draft resolution, takes as good and definitive all the intentions that the Government announced in the wording of the proposal of the 2030 NIP, which was recently completed with several investments in the main areas of its statement, namely: mobility and transport, environment, energy and irrigation. But what is most disturbing to us is that it is the PS itself to claim, in the explanatory statement of the draft resolution, the need to submit the 2030 NIP to the Higher Council of Public Works for consideration and opinion, disparaging this statement in the following paragraph because it is intended that the 2030 NIP will meet with broad consensus before submission to the Higher Council of Public Works. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Socialist Party seems to reveal is very quick in approving its proposal, and this is contrary to what it says and even what it does or above all what it does not do. But by doing so, it violates its own rules adopted by the Government on the competence and responsibility of the Higher Council of Public Works. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, if the Higher Council of Public Works does not serve to give prior opinion on strategic projects of such great importance, then it is better, simply, to end with the Higher Council of Public Works and to begin to discuss and vote in this Parliament, the proposals that the Government has to offer us. Finally, in conclusion, on the proposals that the Government has to offer us, we can perhaps agree with many of the statements, but we already know - and we have come to receive immense complaints and contributions from all over the country - that many of their statements and titles are not consensual.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u90	Mr President, I ask you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u91	We need to discuss, clarify and, above all, confront the various alternatives to the various strategic projects that can serve our future in the next decade. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u92	Mr Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u93	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members: The Minister and the Government call it 'national investment plan' ; I call 'CL-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i. This could even be a document to be taken seriously, but to three months of elections, Minister, it smells of pure 'bath of the cobra', pure propaganda. It is a true electoral manifesto of the Socialist Party, but as a national, it has nothing! I could tell you about the IC6, the IC7, the IC37, but I don't talk about it; I'm talking only about the line of the Beira Alta and the railway, which the government likes so much. Mr. Minister, for the Government, the Beira Alta line starts in Aveiro and ends with this plan in Mangualde. Look : it ends in Mangualde, it doesn't even reach the Guard District! What I want to say to you is this: it is true that the Minister wants to fly to Europe. It's good, 'cause if it was a train, I'd just stay in Mangualde! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u94	So it doesn't work for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u95	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: At the end of this discussion, I think we can conclude that we do not have a plan, that is not national and that is not investment. I'll explain why. As has already been said, it is not a plan, because something that defines the future of the country for the next decade deserved a broad consensus, a deep discussion, an analysis of the Higher Council of Public Works, and soon at the beginning of the legislature. It is not a plan for other governments, for others to execute it. From what has been said here, it is not national – the islands say, Bragança says, the center says, the south. There is a lack of work evenly distributed by the country, because it is concentrated only in two elections, where the Government intends to cast votes. And it's not about investments! I'm not the one who says it, it's the finance! In 2018 you anticipate an investment of 22 %, but say the finances that remained at 3, 6 %. It is clear that you have fallen far short of the necessary investment, very short of the promised and far behind the intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u98	And if we compare with the previous governments, they were always below the investment that the Governments of the majority PSD/CDS achieved. It's proof of failure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u99	Failure? Compared to you! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u100	That is to say, this plan is a failure confession, because the Minister has not been able to overcome the fact that there is only 8% implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u101	40%!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u102	And 8 % of implementation for whom — the government and management — voluntarily presented Ferrovia 2020, for whom he scheduled the works, put the intentions and priorities, is the confession of failure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u103	40%!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u104	It is true, and it is a shame that Mr. Minister is the face of failure. As has already been said, you are the face of that old school of José Socrates — a promise here, an obedient there, a promise here, an obedient one there. Therefore, Mr Minister, he hoped that this plan would be like that of Spain, with more than 32 % increase in investments in 2018, very security-centred, very focused on the renewal of railways and roads, very focused on sustainability and mobility in the whole country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u105	That's just paleio!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u106	But what we have here today is a plan that is, in fact, a missed opportunity to transform the country in a sustainable way, so that we can even get out of the areas that have to do with the railway or the roads.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u107	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u108	Mr. Minister, paleio is that of Mr. Secretary of State! We have climate change, we have a possible committee that has defined the future Community framework, in which climate change has been central. And what does Mr. Environment Minister say? He says: “Not one more word for dams! No more money to handle the drought! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u109	It's just paleio!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u110	That's pale! It's an irresponsible government that seeks consensus, but it doesn't...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u111	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u112	Mr President, I conclude by saying that, in fact, this plan is only and only an electoral programme, an election campaign programme, which has very little to do with what must be a strategy for the country and its future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u113	Mr Hélder Amaral is already elected to the European Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u114	Mr Pedro Alves, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u115	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members : Calling « National Investment Programme » to a notepad can only be a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u116	At least they're smart notes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u117	Or else the Minister has a very restrictive concept of what the country is and what the investments each region needs. Mr President, there is no reference to the ambush which is the duplication of the IP3, the modernisation of the Beira Alta line, the conclusion of the IC12, the construction of the IC26 or the internationalization of the Douro line. Therefore, Minister, accept this modest contribution as another note that can be placed on your block, since they put the Viseu district on the map and on public investment priorities for the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u118	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister and the rest of the team: I begin by talking about a procedural issue, which I consider to be of the greatest importance and which has already been explored in this debate, which is the question of the method. from the point of view of the method, I believe that political action and political decision should have as a precedent economic and financial technical studies. Therefore, it seems obvious to me that, before this National Investment Programme was presented, there should have been, as has been mentioned here before, opinions of the Higher Council of Public Works. The creation of this institution, which I have done in the past, fulfils this function. This is an institution which does not intend to be political and which intends to pronounce itself on the strategic issues of the country's public works. That said, let's go to the substance. In December, on 24th. the United Nations Climate Summit, the Secretary-General, António Guterres, once again warned of the dangerous effects of climate change, calling for concerted action to ensure a sustainable future for all. The urgent response to climate change calls for decarbonisation to be made one of the main structural factors of economic policy in Portugal for the next decade. in this measure, I welcome the fact that the National Investment Programme 2030 enshrines the decarbonization of the economy as one of its structural areas, with over 66% investment in areas that contribute to the objectives of the National Energy and Climate Plan 2030. The investment of EUR 21, EUR 9 billion, divided by four strategic axes of the NIP, should be rigorous and transparent in terms of planning and physical and financial implementation in order to avoid spillovers, both financial and time-consuming, which have both characterized Portuguese public and private works.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u120	Attention to time, Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u121	For this, the existence of a timetable, which does not exist, even if indicative, would be extremely useful. I underline some urgent investments and have long, long, late, such as the southern international corridor, the new Sines-Grándola link, a decisive work for the development of the region and the country, and the connection of the abandoned and degraded line of Cascais to the Lisbon belt line and to the other national rail network.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u122	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u123	I've been using it for 20 years and it's getting worse! To conclude, Mr. President, record the government's correct option for investment and public management of the Cascais line, removing past intentions of privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u124	Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u125	However, in this and other investments, in which the State is the main promoter, the business sector of the State must be in line with responsibilities, which has not always happened in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u126	He also spoke for an intervention, Mr. PSD Member Antonio Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : The Alentejo represents about a third of the national territory. It is very much territory for so little investment of this government! In addition, the government is known as the investment government drops the drop, which presents the investment and PETI 3 +( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure) to penguins. It presents, but executes little — it is true! With regard to the future, the National Investment Programme, what we have here is a lot of propaganda, a lot of project presentation, a lot of initiative, a lot of crochet, too, but little investment, Mr Minister! That's what we have on the ground. In fact, in a territory as large as that of Alentejo, what we have, Minister, is a huge lack of investment. It is not only the PSD that says so, but also the civic entities of the region say so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u128	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u129	For example, AMAlentejo well notes that the National Investment Programme does not serve the Alentejo, but also says the Alentejo Platform and the Beja Merice More movement, as many other civic entities in the region. The truth is that Alentejo deserves more and this government is not doing what it has to do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u130	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: At the end of the debate, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group must say that, after all, the unexpected happened. Of course, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group still hopes, with great hope, that this is only a matter related to pre-election animation. But the truth is that the PSD and the CDS did not resist the temptation to make the National Investment Programme a political weapon, and that means lack of responsibility. In fact, I must say that the CDS Member did not want to do an analysis of a national investment plan, he wanted to make a visit to a roadmap, which had already been completed, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u132	It was fast, it was very fast!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u133	But that is not what is being discussed here; we are discussing a national investment plan and planning. With regard to the PSD, Mr Emídio Guerreiro certainly wrote his speech before the intervention by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, because the PS said that it was available to bring this draft resolution down to the Commission and, with a great sense of responsibility, genuine, to be able to discuss which way of generating what we should all want in this Parliament, which is a robust consensus,... [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] ...so that in the future, the investments of the country are not subject to commitments like many others we have seen in the past. It is true that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group could bring here many criticisms of the past. We could remember that in PETI, the plan that you created was missing EUR 1400 million; there was a list of works, but there was a shortage of EUR 1400 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u134	And there's 20,000 left here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u135	We could say that you have so invested in the railway that the country today has 16. the railway of Europe and 31. The one in the world! That is why, today, we have as priority the railway and not the highway, which is more robust. We could also say that in the past you have made an attack on public investment. I am glad that they have now returned to the debate on the importance of public investment. That is good news for Parliament and good news for the country. But we didn't do anything like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u136	It's true, they didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u137	We have come to this Parliament to say, with a sense of responsibility, that we are available to deepen the debate, broaden the debate and find solutions so that this plan is balanced and can respond to the country's challenges with great consensus, with a robust consensus, which can secure the next governments that govern Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u138	We move on to the third point of our agenda, which is from the evaluation of the Draft Resolution No 1931 / XIII / 4. a (BE) — Recommends the adoption of measures to ensure the access of all public transport users to the tariff reduction support programme in pendulum movements. Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for a presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents to this House a draft resolution that wants the Government to adopt urgent measures that guarantee access to all public transport users to the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction (PART) in the pendulum movements that occur daily throughout the country. Our fear is that the rules adopted in the State Budget Act of 2019 are insufficient to ensure universal access throughout the national territory to the programme to support tariff reduction in public transport. This is because, according to the very articulation of the State Budget Act, today, 31 January, it is the last day that the government's order on the implementation of the implementation of the PART to the inter-municipal communities (CIM) and metropolitan areas should be sent. It is true that we have not yet reached the end of 31 January, and we have high expectations that, at least until midnight - so until the end of 24 hours today - the government, as we have been used to at some times, will issue this order. But even if I do so, what is set out in the State Budget Act is quite not concrete and leaves many doubts in the air as to the application of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, mainly with regard to the financing of tariff reduction in transport outside the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. What is set out in the State Budget Act also raises legitimate concerns to whom, in order to go to work, it moves between different intermunicipal communities or between an intermunicipal community and a metropolitan area. The orders to be issued shall determine the rules to be observed by each CIM in the application of the amount to be paid to it, taking into account the offer in kilometres provided by the transport services managed by them in accordance with the 2019 State Budget rule. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is evident that several CIMs do not often manage means of transport used in the pendulum movements of their populations. For example, the CIMs of Lezíria do Tejo and the Middle Tejo do not manage rail transport, guaranteed by CP ( Trains of Portugal ), which is one of the main means of moving people from Santarém district to Great Lisbon. We could also repeat this example for Braga, in which case also the pendulum trips to the Metropolitan Area of Porto and vice versa are made by CP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u140	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u141	In our understanding, these people cannot stay out of the tariff reduction, under the penalty of creating a serious inequality between populations, depending on the administrative divisions of each territory. The 2019 State Budget imposes April 1 as the day of start of the new reduced tariff in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. On the other hand, in the rest of the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u142	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u143	I will now finish, Mr President. On the other hand, in the rest of the country until that date, only the form of application of the funds to be received under the PART shall be defined. For this reason, the most important proposal is that the Programme for Support for Tariff Reduction be promoted and that the start with the new reduced tariff should be on 1 April for the entire continental territory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u144	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I can even agree with the rush of time for the speeches, but I am not the one who marks the times at the Leaders Conference. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first idea we want, however, to emphasise here is that it has been worth and is worth fighting for the right to mobility and transport as a public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u146	It's too bad to be so bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u147	over the years, a long, firm and persistent struggle was developed by the populations and the PCP, with several bills that were successively plunged by PS, PSD and CDS — the last of them in November 2016 — by the expansion of the social pass with fairer and more attractive prices. In 2016, all the municipalities and almost all the Fregueses of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon (AML) approved motions submitted by the PCP claiming the extension of the intermodal social pass. The decision of enlargement is taken by the 18 municipalities of AML, the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, with a marked date to start next April. This enlargement of the entire AML has been accompanied by a significant reduction in expenditure for users and populations. This was only possible thanks to the approval of the proposal of the CFP in the State budget for 2019, by the extension of the funds of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction. What is decided, at least in AML, is that this reduction will correspond to a metropolitan pass with a cost of 40 € and a pass to the municipality of 30 €, maintaining only the current titles with a lower cost. These values represent a significant drop in costs for most users and will still allow the mobility offered to all of them in this region. The PART is a national programme that, in its implementation, will now have to take into account the specific situation of the pendulum movements to the metropolitan areas of the neighbouring municipalities. In the case of AML, these pendulum movements are made with monthly passes whose prices range between 90 € and around 200 €, in the case of road connections of private operators. It is now necessary to guarantee two things: that these users have a reduction in their tariffs proportional to that which will be recorded for AML, and that these reductions, to apply to users of pendulum connections, do not exhaust the PART money from their CIMs in order to allow all users to benefit from the tariff reduction. In the case of rail transport, the transport authority is the Government itself, which should facilitate the process. But this implies that the COP is compensated by the government for the establishment of the new tariffs. In the case of road operators, they will have to establish protocols with the metropolitan areas or CIMs to guarantee the rights of these users and they also need to safeguard the tariff reduction throughout their internal network. Same situations exist, of course, in the connections to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, in the pendulum movements of and for neighbouring municipalities. While taking into account the possibility of reducing the prices charged by private operators in many connections, the tariff reduction will always entail a significant cost, which should be taken into account in the application of resources. Thus, there are three central aspects that need to be highlighted. First of all, consideration of the distribution of the funds of this PART, in order to ensure the means necessary for the tariff linkage between metropolitan areas and CIM thresholds, to enable tariff arrangements, extension or complement to the pass, which include territories with these significant movements to the area concerned. Secondly, I stress the strengthening of the financial resources that are necessary for this measure. Thirdly, it is important to highlight the definition of CP guidelines for tariff reduction in its signatures and for the consideration of combined steps that link rail to new intermodal crossings...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u148	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u149	I will finish, Mr. President. It is necessary to provide guidance to the COP for the consideration of combined passes, which link rail with new intermodal passes, safeguarding the due financial compensation to the CP for this tariff reduction. For that reason, this is the meaning of the PCP proposal embodied in the Resolution Project No. 1943 / XIII ( 4. ( a). [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u150	You have the floor for one speech, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens consider — as we have often reaffirmed here in the Assembly of the Republic — that the bet in terms of transport should be precisely on collective mobility and therefore on investment in a good network of collective transport, which responds to the mobility needs of populations, especially in their daily pendulum movements. For this reason, it is essential that this collective transport network is of quality, that it has an adequate supply to the needs of the population, that it has therefore perfectly suitable schedules and bearable prices. This is a very important issue. For this reason, the Greens have worked, in this Parliament, to ensure that this tariff reduction was made, under various models, in particular the end of the application of the 4 /NP 18 and also of the Sub23 Pass, the condition of resources, i.e. to extend the 4 /NP 18 and the Sub23 Pass to all the young subjects. On the other hand, by submitting a proposal, which has been approved, which allows all families acquiring passes for their mobility to deduct all VAT (value added tax) within IRS ( income tax for natural persons ). That is to say, we have taken a number of mechanisms, various models, which have enabled families to obtain a reduction in the costs they have monthly with transport, particularly with the social pass. That is why the Greens, of course, look carefully at what Mr. Minister and Mr. Prime Minister here have already assured, on several occasions, that the Government must guarantee the financial means for this Programme to support the reduction of taxes to be applied effectively to what Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Prime Minister here have already ensured when asked by Members of the Assembly of the Republic: their application to the whole country. In other words, we cannot accept that we have first and second citizens in this area, some who will benefit from the programme and others who will not benefit from the programme, depending on where they live and work in the country. In fact, the pendulum movements, particularly in the metropolitan areas, are well known and we cannot allow the peripheries to remain outside, generating walls around the metropolitan areas, as if this connection of the territory was not made, as if we were unaware of these hanging movements of the citizens. What we really want to ensure is that the financial resources are in fact available — and the government guarantees that they will — for the implementation of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction and that this programme applies to the whole country. On the specific issue of the CP, which has been put here — and well— as a concern not to be left out, we, Greens too, consider that the government has a duty to ensure...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u153	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. We believe that the government has a duty to ensure that the COP is not out. We therefore consider this Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction to be another fundamental complement to encouraging the use of collective transport. It cannot be applied in part but, in full, so that it will have good results. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u154	Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, has the floor of an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would say that this measure has been aimed at covering good intentions. It gives correct incentives to improve air quality, improve mobility in cities, reduce the import of fuels and automobiles. It thus contributes to the reduction of the trade balance deficit. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this measure, to be taken seriously, must be linked with improving the supply of public transport, more and better trains, better boats, better meters, best management practices of these companies that are completely underfinanced and victims of government captivity. Finally, and no less important, measures should be extended throughout the country, without exception, even to areas where, today, citizens do not have public transport as a possible, viable or desirable option.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u157	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 2019 State Budget is a strengthened instrument of socialist government electoralism. But the cherry on the top of the cake of this voting hunting tool is the program to support the reduction of the value of passes, perverse and unequal, unfair and unjust, because it leaves out six million Portuguese who do not live in large urban centers, but who have to pay. It costs taxpayers when these resources could be used in alternative policies that favour public investment and benefit populations in general, such as investing seriously in public transport whose degradation of the current ones jumps to the disarmed view, especially on trains falling to pieces throughout the country, despite recent promises of acquiring trains for two thousand and twenty-one.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u158	That doesn't make sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u159	But since this is only for two thousand and twenty-one, she doesn't vote for this year. So we had to take advantage of the small growth of the economy and the biggest tax burden of ever to carry out a campaign of voting. Therefore, Mr President, the PSD refuses that the State budget be a machine of electoral calculation. As such, there are questions to which the Government must answer and whose answer has so far been zero! What will be the estimate of additional demand that this measure will generate? What is the operational response to this same demand? Will the meters stop having technical problems? Are you guys getting any more carriages? Do ships stop being suppressed? Why doesn't the School Navigator give to the CP? What's with the billet? There are only about 1600 different titles in Lisbon! Where do integrated solutions, such as Gira's apps, troutettes, Uber's, come in here? What about the parking at the gates of the big cities? What about interfaces with other modes of transport? And the agreement on the unique social pass in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon? Even recently, the municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon did not agree. Ladies and gentlemen. Socialist Members, what will become of popular prices if there are no transports? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the deadline for the government to issue the orders that will implement this reduction ends precisely. There are still doubts as to how the reduction will be applied to the whole country. The tariff reduction in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and Porto is marked: 1 April.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u160	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u161	Already in the rest of the country the operation will have to stay for the calendars. Mr President, the Socialist Government creates inequalities in promoting first and second citizens. There is no concern about promoting universality, equity and social justice. Anyway, we have a real election breaker loose. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u162	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start by congratulating the Left Block, but I have some difficulty.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u164	Because it's the Left Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u165	I believe that demagogy, deceit, political falsehood must have limits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u166	I think so too!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u167	And I refer to what the CDS said about this part of the State Budget. [[BE's protests.]] At the headquarters of State Budget, we warned exactly of the risk that now the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, in a very low tone, will not spoil the electorate of Great Lisbon and AML, come to say that there exists. We have always warned, and even voted in favour of the increase in the funds proposed by the CFP for the PART. We all voted and said here they were all paying for just a few. Everyone pays, because there's a CO2 emission component. We said it was a lie to say that this tariff reduction plan was for the whole country! It has now been explained that it is not for the whole country, it is for the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon, because there are many areas of the country that do not even have public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u168	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u169	Question: How does someone who lives inside where there is no public transport have access to the tariff reduction plan? I ask: how is it that, for example—and the Communist Party, and well, has raised the question— at the CIM of the Tejo and the Tejo Medium and the CIM of Braga, the CP, which is a substantial part of the mobility of these regions, will be compensated or will be able to have this tariff reduction plan. Therefore, the PCP votes in favour of the Budget, the Left Block votes in favour of the Budget, the Socialist Party votes in favour of the Budget and now they say: "We in the Budget only wanted to prevent the right from reaching power, because we have quality transports that are public."
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u171	You are responsible for the worst public transport that there is memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u172	You shouldn't know what you're talking about, but if you know it's still worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u173	You are responsible for the degradation of public transport, as users say, and as workers, business presidents such as CP, Transtejo or Soflusa also say. You heard us! Perhaps the unions do not say that and perhaps you do not want to take a step that has to be rigorous, which is to have a national transport plan, of equal mobility for all. I can even go further: even with the words that the Communist Party, with the vote of the CDS, managed to put in this plan,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u174	The CDS started on train two days ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u175	... if we withdraw Porto and Lisbon, 83 % of the Budget, there are little more than EUR 700 million for the other 21 CIM. Question : What do CIMs do with this value? How are we going to get intermobility, interoperability, tariff reduction for everyone? I understand that the intention—and here's the ambush— was to avoid more traffic, with that kindness, with which we agreed, of reducing emissions, of bringing more people to public transport, of bringing more people to integrated transport services, but this presupposes having quality transport, regularly, safely and efficiently all that you have done in just three years. That's why I say that this debate today is about propaganda, about voting, not serious,... [[Protests by PS Member André Pinotes Batista and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]] ... little solidarity with the interior. I will even refrain from talking about my district, where there are only one or two municipalities with public transport. CIMs themselves are called upon to assume responsibilities that the State does not want to take on, but with which it wants to advertise. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] Mr André Pinotes Batista will speak next, so I ask you a question: how is the problem solved in Mafra and Torres Vedras?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u176	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u177	Tell me how it's going to work out! There are more users in Torres than there is in Mafra ; those in Mafra have a plan and a tariff ceiling, those in Torres do not have and will have to pay, if the CIM is able to pay with the little money that you gave him. Tell me if only in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon did not create an inequality and if you do not create Portuguese first and second! Have the courage to answer, if you know! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u178	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to greet the Left Block for the scheduling of such important discussion. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the tariff reduction plan, and allow me a note — I would not say this, but in view of the debate we have had here, I will say: the right, lost in its maze of internal divisions and populisms, can demand that the price of public transport be lowered where it does not exist. It is the demagogy that you have and a contradiction, even with what you say you believe! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Mr Hélder Amaral: with better public transport! But that's not your ideology. That's a job we've done. But let me also tell you: for many years we have been talking about this matter, studying it and considering it and now, at the initiative of the left-wing majority, we are doing it! Do you understand the difference, Your Honor? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] We're doing, which is absolutely different. But, Mr President, let me tell you, in order to be clear, because there were doubts and we need to clarify: we will have this measure applied throughout the national territory, we cannot only reduce the rate of public transport where they do not exist! You know, it's a problem, because your demagogy goes down to these limits of the small intelligence of the political argumentary. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Let me tell you, Mr, not to lose ourselves only in political rhetoric, that this measure has enormous positive consequences... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Let me continue, Mr. Deputies! I understand your irritation. But now I am going to show you a map, while the honourable Member calms down: this was the stimulus that the right has given — where you see €0 and the blank map has been the stimulus that the right has given to what is public transport! What's blue and 104 million is what most of the left will do for public transport! This is the difference, honourable Member, between speaking and doing so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, 104 million are in question, as has already been said, and they are not only for the metropolitan areas. Don't lie to the Portuguese! It's all over the national territory! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] We trust the local power and the supra-municipal entities, Mr! Let me just remind you: these EUR 104 million are for nine months and this is the first year! I know that for whom, for 45 years, nothing has done, like you, this can make a huge mess. But to understand, I'll tell you that in nine months we're going to have 104 million and then we'll do the analysis of what we have to do. Let me also tell you, Mr President, that there is another important issue: all of us — and to record the praise of the PSD Member — are concerned about the decarbonisation. This is a double form. On the financing and budget of the State, allow me to clarify it, Mr President. This is a very intelligent way of decarbonizing, because, on the one hand, we penalise the bad practices and where there is more CO2 emissions, and, with taxation, with this tax on who most emits CO2, we will decarbonize by stimulating collective transport. It is not very difficult to understand how this is financed. It is not very difficult to understand the intelligence that is underlying. But I would like to say to the Left Block, if I may, that we cannot — and it is clear from this debate — take a shot at our feet before this right hand, we cannot demean the achievements that we have had. It was the Left Block, the PCP, The Greens and the Socialist Party that achieved this enormous conquest. A Miss do Barreiro, in her concern for protection, said: «I confess that I do not know whether the birds are buried wrong or if I rule them wrong, but the truth is that they always die». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not gonna let the little bird die! We will not allow these gentlemen, with this cheap demagogy, to devalue a measure that is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u180	Sir, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u181	Let him speak! Let the little bird talk, she's talking good!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u182	I shall finish, Mr President, with the same tolerance that has given the other parties. As far as the issue is concerned with the network, the PSD Member may also be resting. If you have looked carefully at the articulation of the law, you will know that 60% of this money is for low tariffs, the other 40% are to improve the network. Mr President, I hope, from now on, that you will find it on the side of the one who defends public transport, on the side of the one who defends the user. Honestly, PSD and CDS lost an opportunity to make history with us, but this is a problem of their identity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u183	At the end of the debate, Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Responding to some doubts and objections that were raised in the debate, I would begin by reassuring Mr André Pinotes of the Socialist Party, about how we assessed the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport, which was approved in the Budget Act for 2019. We have no doubt that this tariff policy has nothing to do with the tariff policy for public transport followed by the previous Government, the PSD / CDS. One of the first measures — we are well aware of this — is that the Minister for Economic Affairs of Lima and his Secretary of State for Transport Sergio Monteiro took it was to increase the price of social passes in the country by 50 %. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was to increase the rate of public transport by 26 %! [[Congratulations from the BE and PS MP André Pinotes Batista.]] That, sir, is the political fraud! The political ambush is Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, and Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS, say that they agree with the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction, with the reduction of public transport tariffs. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, with the increase in public transport tariffs, your goal was to expel people from public transport, was to open the way for their privatization to offer such a bad service and for so few people that it would be best to privatize them because there would be redemption of public transport policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u185	Even palm bats!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u186	We don't papa, sirs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, this charge of fraud! What we say is that for the promotion of public transport it is essential that such transport be competitive in relation to individual transport. And there's nothing better than there's a radical reduction in your price on the way to something else, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u187	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u188	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I said that there is nothing better than a radical reduction in the price of public transport, on the way to something else, which is already being done a little in the European Union: there are already several countries and cities in the European Union where public transport is totally free of charge to everyone. That's the way we have to walk. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this item is now closed. Before we move on to the next point, I ask Secretary Emília Santos to make some announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 1093 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July, including in the list of essential public services the passenger transport service, which falls to 6. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 103 / XIII / 4 was also included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 124 -A / 2018 of 31 December amending the legal regime applicable to the contract for the carriage of passengers by rail, the legal regime applicable to the CP-Trains of Portugal, E.P.E. and the management and use regime of the national rail infrastructure by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 2370. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u191	We pass on to the assessment of Petition No 501 / XIII / 3. a ( André Pinto Mourão Ferreira Julião et al.) — They request the urgent realization of structural works in the Grouping of Schools of the Portela and Moscow, together with the Resolution Projects No. 1862 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the High School of Portela ( Arc-Iris ), in the municipality of Loures, and 1863 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent re-qualification of School EB 2, 3 Gaspar Correia, in Loures County. To present these initiatives in the context of the examination of the petition, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, I begin to greet the thousands of citizens who are concerned about the current state of the EB 2 School, 3 Gaspar Correia and the Portela High School and who, through this petition, claim urgent and structural works for these two schools of the Loures Town Council. In fact, and similar to many educational establishments in Portugal, these schools have not known, throughout their existence, any deep works, which, of course, resulted in a set of problems that condition their normal functioning and compromise the well-being of the school community. The problems of these schools are numerous and are recorded in the report that resulted from a survey carried out in 2017 by the Health Delegate of the Public Health Unit of Loures-Odivelas. Following this survey, this report clearly shows several anomalies, such as painting degradation, cracks and humidity, damaged fibrosis coverage, problems in the sewage system of sanitary facilities, levelling and poor flooring, lack of heating system, damaged beverages, lack of hygiene plan, among many other problems. It is recalled that at the Portela High School there was even a fall of fiberglass plates and metal structures, which fell from the ceiling of the gym, which forced, in fact, the interdiction of this space. And if it is true that these schools are not under the responsibility of the city, it is also true that the repair of the flag of the Portela High School was, however, promoted by the City Hall of Loures. It happens that all other problems remain, being emphasized that the investment for the requalification and modernization of the Portela Secondary School integrated phase 4 of the Modernization Programme of the secondary schools. However, in 2011 the previous Government of the PSD and the CDS determined the suspension of project contracts and the initiation of new projects to be carried out under this Programme, thereby canceling the planned investment. As for the Gaspar Correia School, although it integrates the list of the implementation contract for the transfer of competences from the Ministry of Education to the City Hall of Loures, the same contract is very clear when determining that the transfer will only take place after the intervention in school facilities that, as you know, has not yet occurred. In any case, the fact is that these schools urgently need substantive intervention and it is precisely in this sense that they point to the two legislative initiatives that the Greens bring to discussion today, recommending to the Government the creation of the necessary conditions for the proper functioning of these schools and the safeguarding of the safety and well-being of their school communities. On the other hand, these two legislative initiatives aim to meet the demands, objectives and concerns of the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u193	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition that we are discussing today brings together education officers, former students, teachers and other educational community — some of whom are present in the galleries and those to whom we meet — and asks the Assembly of the Republic for the measures necessary to carry out structural works in two educational establishments, EB 2, 3 Gaspar Correia and the Secondary School, both of the Group of Schools of Portela and Moscow. The text of the petition reports numerous problems: asbestos in coverage; lack of drainage of rainwater; damage in kitchens; lack of lighting, which brings security problems; electrical problems in schools; lack of air conditioning; unconditional sports pavilion. The CDS visited the School and I myself was present in a panel organized by the petitioners on 16 April, with other Members present here, and we discussed this with an educational community very committed to restoring the conditions worthy of their schools. of the various interventions of this day, I held a mother, who said she did not realize why other schools deserved the attention of the Ministry of Education, for example, schools in historical buildings, and these two in particular did not even have indication of timing or some type of intervention. And he also said that if these schools were visited by ASAE (Food and Economic Safety Authority ) or by any health and safety authority, they would probably be closed at this time. In the meantime, there have been some news from here. In July 2018, around €120 000 was awarded for the benefit of the EB 2, 3 and the Chamber, in fact, did some work on the Secondary Pavilion, but were not resolved and the contractor's visit is still pending. Mrs. Members, it is true that, in particular, the Secondary Office was scheduled for intervention in 4. the phase of the School Park, which was stopped for known reasons... Members always say that they have already turned the page of austerity, but I would also like them to turn the page of the calendar, because we are no longer in 2011 or 2015, we are in 2019, four years have passed and, in fact, nothing has happened. Therefore, we can assign collective responsibilities, because no one has been able to make reality advance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u196	So instead of going here to debate who did and who didn't, the truth is that responsibility is shared right now. [[PCP protests.]] No matter how much it costs the gentlemen. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party, the truth is that they did not achieve anything better than the previous government did.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u198	No one did, neither the current government nor the previous one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u199	The situation is this: in 2019, the EB 2, 3 had 120 000 € of works—and spent four years—accumulated up to now and the Secondary School is still waiting. Therefore, the situation of structural degradation remains in both schools and, therefore, we will follow the two Green resolution projects, in order to insist either on intervention or, by means of minimums, on the presentation of a timetable, so that education managers and other educational community know what they can expect. It's the least you can give them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u200	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Socialist Party, not only to welcome the petitioners who have subscribed to the petition, in a relevant exercise of democracy and participation, but also the parents, mothers, students and the entire educational community of a school, a space, of equipment I know well. In the Parliamentary Group, we recognize and believe that education and strengthening public school are fundamental and decisive for social cohesion and justice. We also defend in this Parliamentary Group that public school is the guarantor and promoter of equal opportunities. That is why we have been investing permanently in public school and in strengthening it over the past few years. In addition to strengthening all State budgets over these three years in school social action, equity, we have also been increasing the human resources affected by school and combating precariousness, linking teachers. In promoting success in school and inclusive school, we have also put all our effort and all our investment and, in parallel, have launched a set of public works that is marked by the country, with the support of the local authorities, which we also recognize. A short time ago, in a 15-year debate, Mr. Prime Minister said that « In education, investment in public schools by 2020 amounts to a total of EUR 735 million, having already started works in 217 public schools throughout the country ». Therefore, it is appropriate to dismantle the permanent rhetoric on the right, that no works have been done in the school park, which has not been invested, because the truth is that, throughout the last State budgets, we have made investments in infrastructure and also software, in the educational project and in the promotion of school success. We must always talk about history, we must always talk about the past, because the mistakes of the past compromise the present and the truth is... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u202	You're going to talk about Socrates, finally! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u203	... — I would like to be allowed to intervene, even because I am quite singular, with an amidalitis — we found a movement of works and a forced stop of them in the school park where the requalification of the High School of Portela was registered and that the Government of Passos Coelho decided to interrupt and suspend. He cancelled Phase 4 of the Programme and also interrupted Phase 3 of the Programme. It is also worth recalling that in schools in 2007 we had EUR 2000 million for works in the school park and that in Portugal 2020 there were only EUR 350 million under negotiation. They did not guard the negotiations of Portugal 2020, they did not caution the creation of funding sources for both schools, the object of signaling and priority investment and therefore both the Portela Secondary and Gaspar Correia, despite signs, did not have the necessary investment by the previous government. Therefore, it was necessary to redeploy, rebuild, design, compete, award necessary and unsuited works, continuing to requalify in schools. But I also wanted to point out that with the socialist management of the City Hall of Loures, from 2002 to 2013, an investment of EUR 42.7 million was made in the school park. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Four new schools...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u204	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u205	Therefore, Loures schools are not forgotten, when, in Loures, the management is of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u206	Less at Portela!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u207	More: with DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ), there have already been interventions in four basic schools in Loures, in Gaspar Correia, in 2016 and 2018, and in the coming months more urgent intervention will be made at the Portela Secondary School. Both schools have already completed a project for a comprehensive modernization, so necessary for these schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u208	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u209	I just want to say, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, that they have with us for this claim, that it is legitimate on the part of the petitioners, and we are aware of the need to continue to value the school park, as we have been doing here, because we believe in Portugal better, with more schools and more investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u210	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Portuguese Communist Party, I greet all the subscribers of this petition and, in particular, all students, all workers, teachers and non-teachers, who in the Group of Schools of Portela and Moscow, as in so many other schools in the country, study and work in very serious conditions, waiting for decades for works that are necessary. The Portela High School is 31 years old, the Basic School 2, 3 Gaspar Correia is 45 years old and therefore it should not be difficult to perceive the level of degradation of these facilities that have never had structural works and, as has already been said, today have problems related to asbestos, with plumbing, with sanitation, with flooring, with heating, therefore, are serious structural problems that do not sympathize with punctual interventions. That is why the demands of this petition and the struggle of this educational community are fair and why we would also like to value the two proposals which the Greens Ecological Party brings here today and which we will obviously follow. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portela High School, as has already been said, has joined the Modernization Program of the School Park and much is irritated by the PSD and CDS when it is said that the project has been suspended. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't say it's been moving forward! The project was suspended.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u212	We're not angry at anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u213	In addition, in the previous Government, Minister Nuno Crato, with a State Secretary of the CDS, decided not only to suspend the works as maintaining a board of directors to receive their salaries every month without guaranteeing support to schools. He held a board of directors in the School Park, but works, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u214	And now it's so different? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u215	We understand that it is not acceptable that, at the time when it was necessary to do works, if I had taken this decision, which is contrary to what was necessary: the realization of structural works.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u216	And the board of directors resigned? I don't think so!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u217	More, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not doomed to choose between the bad and the bad. contrary to what the CDS wants, the country, students and public school are not condemned between choosing the worst government ever and the bad government of the PS in this matter. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] What is very evident is that in the month in which this petition entered the Assembly of the Republic in April 2018, a draft resolution of the CFP was adopted here requiring the Government to send to the Assembly of the Republic the list of schools that should have works in the Lisbon district. He also proposed that, in conjunction with the educational community, a priority timetable for intervention in all schools should be identified and that this should also take into account the specific projects of each school, the pedagogical projects and the urgent realization of the works. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, until today, zero! Not only did the government not deliver, as the need for structural intervention in many schools in the district of Lisbon and in particular in this Group of Schools of Portela and Moscow continues. Mrs. Members of the CFP can count on the following: regardless of the government in power, they will always count on the people, they will always count on the workers, they will always count on the students and teachers with the solidarity of the CFP and the demand for works.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u218	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u219	Education is not a business, unlike PSD and CDS want, education is a right! Therefore, the State has an obligation to perform works and to guarantee minimum operating conditions, which are not guaranteed today. Therefore, the CFP will be here to force the current government to comply with what has been approved here and, as soon as possible, to begin the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u220	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u221	I shall finish, Mr President, by telling Mrs Susana Amador the following: four years have passed. It's too late. More funding for debt renegotiation was missing for schools and for investment in education. And that is a debate that we will continue to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u222	Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt of the PSD Parliamentary Group continued to use the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Social-Democrat Bank, I should like to congratulate the petitioners on the submission of the petition. This is because, in fact, throughout this legislature, there have been numerous times we have discussed works here, particularly for schoolsEB 2, 3. We know that the district of Lisbon has an effective shortage of structural works in schools, we have visited several and we have accompanied many draft resolutions presented by other banks, including what Mrs Rita Rato mentioned here, and in fact the government does not respond—does not respond to a timetable and to the structuring of an effective plan of priorities. I have to say that, as rapporteur of this petition, I have had the opportunity to visit these schools and this group of schools and to speak with the direction, with some students and with some teachers, and with, in the report, because, often, the image is worth more than a thousand words, to put images on the concrete reality experienced by this educational community. Today, this debate of the Canal História in relation to the past, which is more than clear, and the Court of Auditors' report on what the management of the School Park has done is elucidative for those who want to revisit this matter, but what is true is that we are in the last year of the Parliament of a Government which is of the Socialist Party, supported in this House by the PCP and the Left Block. Therefore, by making all budgets viable, it is not now worth saying that they have not made this issue viable. During this year's special discussion of the Budget, the Social-Democrat Bank and I had the opportunity to question the government about investment in schoolsEB 2, 3, in particular in the Lisbon district, to which this petition also refers, and nothing was said by the Government. We asked for the investment plan to be made available to us. It remains curious that the government will be investing in a spa that needed works, indeed, but is investing, destroying the existing spa, building a new one, when there are classrooms where it rains, where students do not have classes, where Loures health reports refer to fibration cracks— fissures that are not cracks, are authentic holes, as is portrayed in the report I have drawn up on this petition. The priorities with which the government intends to invest in schools in the district of Lisbon are still dramatic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u224	It just started raining today!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u225	Therefore, more than the « Canal História », it is urgent that the Government find solutions to problems not only in the Lisbon district, which are very lacking in them, but also in all the councils. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u226	Thank you, Madam Member, in particular for managing your time. For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u227	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to greet the educational community of the Group of Schools in Portela and Moscow by the national example they gave in the struggle for the requalification of these basic and secondary schools—are more than 4,000 petitioners. I had the opportunity to be in one of the demonstrations that the students and the students made at the school door and I would like to greet them, as well as the management, the teachers and also the teachers in charge of education, who were together in the struggle for the requalification of these schools. The Basic School Gaspar Correia and the Portela High School have a school population, as it has already been said, of 1800 students and students and have problems that are common to schools with this age and that have not had interventions over decades: fibrosis structures that are degraded, that have not yet been replaced and that scare the school community from the risks that they mean to the school population; infiltrations in the buildings; schools where it rains; problems in kitchens with equipment failures; poor elimination and also some deficiencies in the outer space, in the case of the Basic School. In the case of the Portela Secondary School: there are fibrosis, problems of degradation and safety in the electrical installations; there is no heating system, which, in these cold waves that we have sense, much lacks; infiltrations and rain in the sports pavilion. We also know that, over the past two years, something has been done, but very little: punctual interventions that have only allowed the bathing; the lighting of the gym, in the Basics, and the recovery of one of the most rainy pavilions in the Secondary. We are still far from structural intervention. These two schools of the Group of Schools of Portela and Moscow need works that can recover them and give conditions to those who work there and to those who study there. We know that the rehabilitation of schools, so that students study in the best possible conditions, is an imperative of awareness of those who defend education and those who defend public school. But this imperative of consciousness, on which we all agree today, cannot fail to correspond to a hand in the conscience of those who, for four years, paralyzed all the works in schools in Portugal and did not rationalize, for example, in association contracts, where he could have gone looking for money to do works. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The members of the government who cut much more in education than the troika has ever asked now have no moral or conscience to come to talk about the need to recover these schools. [[Continued PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The Left Block is here, because we think the rehabilitation of these schools is a step in the defense of public school. Without a quality school, also with regard to buildings, there is no defense of public school, there is no right to education, as the Constitution recognizes. Therefore, we will not fail to present a project, which will be discussed in committee, by the rehabilitation of the Gaspar Coreia Basic School and the Portela Secondary School, also called the Arco-Iris School. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u228	Let's now move to point five on the agenda. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, the Bureau will only give the floor to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen of a great deal of faith, depending on the subject we are going to deal with. That is, the assessment of Petition No 465 / XIII / 3. a ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology of the Port) — They request the creation of the National Day of Hope. Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u229	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating in a very effusive way Dr. Orange Bridges and all the subscribers of this petition, some of which are present here. They are more than 6511 subscribers to the Portuguese Institute of Oncology of the Port, which, as we all know, is a reference health unit for the diagnosis, treatment and research in the field of oncology, and allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, without any favour, add a reference unit to the cure of many patients. It deals with more than 10,000 patients annually, one of the 10 largest European centres with around 2000 employees. And what do these petitioners propose to us? The creation of the National Day of Hope, which aims to be a day of celebration of life, and which aims to remember the importance of the role of clinical trials in access to therapeutic innovation. It is in the hospital and in the hospital that the word "hope" is recurrent in all services, but in clinical trials units and research units it is even stronger! We must remember the importance of research in cancer treatment. Participation in clinical trials is a design of this Institute, but also of many hospitals in the advanced world. It is also a very noble act of patients who are prepared to test new treatments, new therapies, new surgeries, new medical devices. It makes all the sense, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, add the word 'hope' to cancer, a positive message, a message of confidence! Signing a positive message of hope makes all the sense, because hope, as Mr. Orange Bridges said, does not hurt or cost. I call on the honourable Members to see that this petition can have consequences. to petitioners, professionals, patients, their families and friends, I thank you for helping us to have hope, to believe in hope. I am sure you will have one day and it will be the first day of spring, which was not chosen by chance. It is in spring that time begins to improve. It's a good time to think about hope! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u230	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u231	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome and greet the many petitioners, in particular—and will not hurt me if I do so— Dr. Orange Pontes, who is in the galleries, and who was perhaps the main spokesman for this idea that today we are debating in the Assembly of the Republic, the idea of creating the Day of Hope. Hope, as the petitioners say, to honor caregivers, professionals and particularly the cancer patient. Hope in the fight against cancer, because the fight against cancer is made of that same hope. Hope in scientific evolution, hope in more cancer survivors, in more quality of life. Hope that a cancer diagnosis is not a fatality. We therefore agree with the petitioners and with what is proposed to debate now in the Assembly of the Republic. What is proposed, after all, is a day to speak in an unsurpassed way about cancer, to fight stigma, to destroy prejudices, but also to speak of the stories of survival that give that same hope. A day to talk about the disease and its treatment, to talk about the patient and his dignity, to talk about life and quality of life. We all know that oncological diseases are increasingly prevalent, and they will be - they will be even more so in the future, and so we must talk more about them. They are part of the day-to-day process and, we also agree, they must belong to the public debate from day-to-day. Therefore, on the side of the Left Block, we would also like to see the consequences of this petition which has already been mentioned here. We really think it would be very interesting and very important that all parliamentary groups in the Assembly of the Republic, in consensus and unanimously, could achieve the object of this petition. On the left side of the Block, we are available to participate and contribute to this and, without wishing to anticipate the interventions of the other parliamentary groups, we are also in the belief that all parliamentary groups will be available and therefore we will go to this work. of our part, we are available to do this work, to create the Day of Hope that is proposed by the petitioners. [[Congratulations from BE and PS MP Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u232	Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing petition No 465 / XIII / 3 today. the initiative of the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ) of the Port, through which more than 6500 citizens – including Dr. Orange Bridges, who, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, took advantage of greeting – asked this House to create the National Day of Hope. With this petition, of which I have had the privilege of being rapporteur, the petitioners intend to honor cancer patients as well as their caregivers and health professionals who dedicate these patients to the best of their knowledge and dedication. This petition is of high significance, worthy of reflection, because the reality on which it affects all of us, citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, oncological diseases have seen a significant increase among the Portuguese population, increasing at a constant rate of 3% per year and already being the second cause of death in our country. If the increase in the incidence of cancer results mainly from the progressive ageing of the population, its main causes can be found in factors such as genetic predisposition, but also in others that are primarily related to lifestyles and risk behaviors, some of which have a significant impact on the incidence of cancer, as is especially the case with tobacco consumption. It is true that forms of treatment of oncological diseases have undergone marked evolution in recent decades, increasing the rate of success in the treatment of these diseases. Now, it is all this reality that makes us share the purpose that inspired this petition and that leads us to defend the need for the change of the paradigm in the fight against cancer, in which fatality must give more and more place to hope. We therefore also associate ourselves with what has been said here by the PS and BE parliamentary groups. Indeed, PSD is also available to embrace this petition and this solution from the IPO of Porto. But for this, more than creating these days, it is necessary to bet on prevention and early diagnosis, modifying lifestyles and increasing oncological screenings, in order to reduce mortality associated with predictable tumors. But for this, it is also important to act on the treatment of oncological diseases, in particular by ensuring the fairness and accessibility of citizens mainly to relevant therapeutic innovation. Having said that, it cannot fail to recognize the effort that the National Health Service has made in the search for the best answers to the needs of patients with oncological diseases, in particular by welcoming the abnegation and high competence of health professionals who are dedicated to these patients. in this context, the creation of a National Day of Hope may favor national awareness about the social reality involving oncological diseases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u234	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u235	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I cannot finish without leaving a word to the patient associations, our IPOs, our hospitals and their professionals, that every day they give their best in behalf of all those who suffer from cancer, because these professionals allow our patients to wake up every day with hope and with renewed will to win. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u236	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting and congratulating the nearly 7,000 petitioners who have signed this petition and brought it to this House, as well as the Porto Institute of Oncology, who took the initiative. I would also like to congratulate the Institute and all its professionals on their daily work with patients, their family members and caregivers. It is the work that they develop that allows to increase the hope of patients, the hope revealed in the concern of caregivers and health professionals with the cancer patient. Hope represents, above all, the certainty that scientific progress is the path that will enable us to find more and more innovative, effective and successful treatments for cancer. There is no other way to discover new medicines or treatment options, but it is important that these medicines are effective, and only with knowledge can we do so. But in order not to lose hope, it is important not only to create the National Day of Hope, but to make that day a need for daily intervention. A need for daily intervention because of the importance of developing not only new drug studies but also new surgical procedures, new techniques and, in particular, new disease prevention studies that not only happen to others.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u239	But it is also a need for daily intervention by the requirement of more health professionals, more training for health professionals, more resources and means for SNS ; more and better access to consultations, treatments and examinations. Mrs. Members, the vertiginous pace of scientific and technical progress in the field of health, and in particular in oncology, has contributed, and much, to survival. But we must not fail to mention that there are drugs that are not innovative and are very effective and often lacking in health services. The CFP argues that the medicinal products and health technologies to be used in the provision of health care must be in accordance with the latest scientific knowledge and technical developments and, at the same time, with the use of studies demonstrating the relevance, cost-effectiveness and economic advantage of their use in the context of the public health service. We also demand the investment necessary for the units to be equipped with means to provide quality and timely health care. We reaffirm: to do the National Day of Hope, more than one day, a daily and continuous intervention! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u240	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u241	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, in the person of Prof. Orange Bridges, to greet all petitioners and to take this opportunity to greet, congratulate and thank the commitment of the IPO do Porto, of all IPOs, of all the institutions that treat people with cancer at all stages of the disease, and to say that your work is proud and that the country is grateful for what they do. The CDS has always been present in the field of monitoring cancer and therefore can only welcome this initiative with a subject that is particularly grateful to us, hope. Indeed, hope — and I would like to make the most of it — is important in all stages of life, whether we are sick or not, and it is important to remember that it is a positive expectation to achieve one goal, whether it is healing or another. There is no hope only when there is a cure; there is hope, and it must be promoted at all stages of the disease. Therefore, for us, the promotion of hope must be a reality in all services that treat people with cancer, whether they heal or not. What really matters is the management of expectations. What matters is to have adequate communication and not to foster unrealistic expectations, in the pretense hope that, yes, it promotes hope. It is important, in fact, at all stages of illness — to allow me to insist, to promote hope proactively. But more than one day's creation, which we will all certainly care for, will be concrete and consistent actions that will foster the hope of people with cancer, the hope of professionals. And unfortunately, we have to say this, promises that are not fulfilled and uninvestment in this area do not increase hope for patients. It has already been said, and it is not worth squaming the truth: the asymmetries in access to treatments and innovative medicines, the increase of waiting times for consultations, screenings and surgeries, the lack of support for caregivers, the delay and the postponement of additional diagnostic tests do not promote the hope of our patients. Therefore, we recommend that this Government really create ways to, in a concrete and effective way, promote daily hope, without prejudice to all of us in this House — and with certainty that we will do so in the Health Committee, from the Working Group on the Monitoring of Oncological Diseases - we will take the measures we understand necessary and appropriate so that cancer patients, whether they want to be cured or not, hope to come to have a quality life waiting for them and with the greatest dignity that health services can offer them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u242	On the day when the Assembly of the Republic will evoke the Holocaust Memory Day, it is very good for all of us that we can also look forward and prepare ourselves for the creation of the National Day of Hope. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Bureau associates itself with the petitioners, greets them and greets them. We move on to the last point of our agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 468 / XIII / 3. a ( João José Roque Batista Fael et al.) — Regulation of the career of Health Assistant Technique, together with, in general, the Bill No. 1073 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Regulates the Occupational Health Assistant Technique. To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners of this initiative. With the review of the career regime of workers who perform public functions, by Law No. 12 -A / 2008 of 27 February, the category of medical action assistant is no longer defined autonomously, becoming included in the career of operational assistant. The inclusion of health assistant technicians in a general category made it impossible for functional content inherent in the performance of their functions to be defined, leaving to the free will of the heads the designation of tasks of their competence and obligation. This situation, in addition to causing conflict between the various professionals, also has the consequence that health assistants end up performing tasks that are not of their competence, thus jeopardizing the quality of care provided and the safety of the patient. In view of the high obligations and risks arising from the exercise of the profession, it is essential that health assistant technicians have regulations that are compatible with the functions performed. It is necessary to value and dignify these professionals, as well as to recognize the specificity of their functions. Thus, with the NAP bill we are discussing today, we intend to regulate the activity of health assistant technician, clearly defining their technical skills, career structure and functions performed, conferring greater dignity on this profession, which is of the greatest importance for the National Health Service, representing 20% of SNS staff and being the third productive force in hospitals and health centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u244	Mr Moisés Ferreira of BE has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u245	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who address the Assembly of the Republic claiming something very fair, which is a career. A career for those currently operating assistants in the field of health, but who should be health assistant technicians, with their own career that recognizes the specificity of their work. There are about 25 000 professionals who work as operational assistants in the National Health Service and who should be health assistant technicians in the National Health Service. Without them, the National Health Service does not work, it is not possible to provide health care. Without them, there are no surgeries. And how many times do we know that there are surgeries, even scheduled, that are postponed because there was no operational assistant available for, for example, ensuring the cleaning and sterilization of the room. These professionals are very important to ensure an effective fight against hospital infections. Without them, there is no provision of care for users, because they are the first line of such care. Without them, it is also not possible to have an admission in the various hospitals with quality, with the quality required to the National Health Service. They are therefore health professionals — the final point! And, therefore, they must have a career that recognizes this — that is, they are health professionals — that recognizes their differentiation, that they recognize the specificity of their work and that they recognize its importance. Now, the truth is that the general career in which they are currently inserted as operational assistants does not allow any of this, does not make the fair recognition, the fair appreciation and the dignity of this profession. For this reason, the Left Block has also presented a bill to create and regulate the career of health assistant technician. They are health professionals and, if they are, they should be treated as such, because they have very specific skills and functions and therefore cannot be lost within a general career that does not recognize these same very specific skills and functions. Therefore, on the side of the Left Block, we will give consequence to this petition and we will fight here, in the Assembly of the Republic, for this appeal so fair that it is made here, to create this career and to dignify and value these professionals, who are so essential to the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u246	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u247	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would also like to warmly welcome the more than 4000 petitioners who, in a laudable civic attitude, presented this petition to the Assembly of the Republic, being some of the subscribers present here. The CDS recognizes the unmistakable relevance of health care assistant technicians in providing health care to users. These professionals deal daily with thousands of users and hence their professionalism and humanization in the care they provide are undoubtedly decisive. In fact, as has already been said, they are responsible for combating hospital infections, a problem that confronts us all and that robs public health and quality in the hospital environment. We therefore want to greet them alive and gratefully. We understand that the purpose of regulating this profession is not only of high relevance, but also of establishing justice. But the government has not listened to its demands and proof of this are the various manifestations and strikes of these health professionals we have been witnessing. Still last week we watched another strike. Health care assistants have been unjustified over the years. First, they included him in his career as an operational assistant in 2008. After correcting this error, the category of health assistant technician was created in 2010. But the fact is that this fundamental problem has not yet been solved and these professionals continue without a properly regulated career. We remember that we are talking about health professionals who are integrated into teams every day dealing with thousands of users. These professionals are essential to the proper functioning of health units, whether they are hospitals, either within primary health care, or in the context of continuous or palliative care. In all these types of care, the functions they perform in the teams of health professionals that integrate are crucial. They do not deserve to be discriminated against negatively, which is what has happened. Health care technicians perform their duties under great strain, since their fair expectations have not been met. In addition, in order to respond to the needs, with the passage to 35 hours, they should have been hired, according to the Independent Health Techniques Union, plus 3,500 professionals. Thus, it is not only the doctors, nurses and senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians who are exhausted, worn out and frustrated, but also these technicians, due to their expectations being constantly disappointed. So they deserve and have all respect for the CDS. Regarding the draft law of the NAP, recognizing its more than just claim, raises some doubts as to its form. in this sense, we understand that it lacks to be worked and improved at the site of speciality. Moreover, the public discussion process of this project has not yet been initiated and, in our view, this public discussion is essential, as it may be crucial for the final outcome of this legislative process. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u248	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u249	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to welcome the petitioners, those who are present here in the galleries and those who have not had the opportunity to travel here, as well as the thousands of health assistant technicians, more than 26 000 of the SNS, and many more of the private sector and the social sector that, daily, care for the well-being and health of the Portuguese. We are debating a petition signed by 4658 citizens requesting the regulation of the career of health assistant technician. This problem originated in 2008 when the government of then decided to end the career of medical action assistants, who had more than 50 years of existence, and integrate these professionals into a general career, that of the operational assistants.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u250	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u251	These workers are responsible for ensuring a fully functional set, essential to the well-being of health-sector users, in the fulfilment, with full technical autonomy, of food, hygiene, transport, comfort, among other functions for which they acquire their skills. Health care technicians perform differentiated functions that, as is the case with other health professionals, justify the existence of their own career, which they have already had.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u252	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u253	They are professionals whose reintegration into special health careers cannot continue to be postponed by the government. It must be acknowledged and affirmed that the Socialist Party has not only created the problem, as it has not resolved during these three years, despite its promise in the last election campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u254	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u255	It also refers to the silence of the Government. To prepare the report on this petition, Parliament asked the Government to take a decision on the replacement of careers. It took more than half a year and the government did not respond, so it did not commit itself to any solution, nor did it even give any explanation to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u256	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u257	The only position that is known was the vote against the replacement of the career of the Socialist Party, during the discussion of the State Budget proposal for 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u258	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u259	The replacement of the career of health assistant technicians concerns the legislative responsibility of the Government. Moreover, there is a special political responsibility on the part of the Socialist Party and the governments that the Socialist Party has supported. This responsibility is based on the political option that a former Government of the Socialist Party, led by Eng. Socrates, took up when he was in office between 2005 and 2009, and which extinguished the career of medical action assistants. Now, at this moment, there is a historic opportunity to contribute and replace a question of justice. This act of contribution from the Socialist Party is what professionals and PSD demand from the Government and the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u260	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u261	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We congratulate all the signatories of the petition, which seeks to regulate the career of health assistant technician. The demands of medical action auxiliaries are legitimate. Since 2009 medical action auxiliaries have required the regulation of their career, as they did last January 25, with a great struggle journey. Medical action auxiliaries are essential for monitoring patients, sterilization of material and hygiene of spaces, and are essential for combating hospital infections. Despite such relevant activities, they have no career, they are integrated into a generalist career. The absence of a career stems from the changes introduced in 2008, in which it would be known as Law 12 -A / 2008. With this legislation, the career of medical action assistants, like others, was destroyed, which had only one purpose: to destroy careers and to devalue the work and the workers of the Public Administration. The CFP believes that the discussion, replacement, change and creation of new careers in the Public Administration is a matter of collective bargaining between the representative organisations of workers and the Government. It is a matter that must deeply involve workers and trade unions. However, the Government has not been able to meet the legitimate expectations of workers, nor has it fully fulfilled collective bargaining with the representative structures of workers. The Assembly of the Republic may and should point out this need, which is also indispensable for strengthening the quality of public services, but there is a proper and irreplaceable space, which is that of collective bargaining. Moreover, the CFP has always denounced and demanded compliance with this constitutional right. in this sense, he delivered today a legislative initiative that proposes that the Government take all the necessary steps towards the successful development of negotiating processes, the replacement and creation of careers in the Public Administration, including that of medical action aid.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u262	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u263	This proposal also aims to take into account the specificities of the functions performed in the various services, to ensure the valorization of careers and workers, to ensure progress and the recovery of remuneration and to promote the improvement of services. On the proposal from the NAP, we cannot fail to say that it does not comply with a principle which is very important to us, the principle of public consultation, in which the representative structures of workers can speak about the content of the NAP. On the concrete content, we have serious doubts. We are confronted with solutions that, due to their complexity and specificity, must be defined as a body of collective bargaining. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u264	For an intervention, Mr Luís Soares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u265	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and in them by complimenting all health assistant technicians who in fact perform decisive functions in what is the provision of care in the National Health Service. We discussed today a petition, but also a draft law of the NAP. If, as far as the petition is concerned, the Socialist Party follows the legitimate claims of the petitioners to see their career regulated, we must say that we do not follow with the favourable vote the claim of the NAP to regulate access to the profession. The Government has done, with concrete actions, the defence of this professional class, increasing the number of professionals and, as Mr. Miguel Santos said, including in its electoral programme precisely the regulation of career as one of its commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u267	The term of office is not over. There were mandates that ended, and on this matter we have not heard anything at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u268	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u269	But why do we follow the petitioners' claims? First, because they are legitimate and fair claims. Health assistant technicians are an important profession in the provision of health care and, despite being integrated into the general career of the State as operational assistants, the Socialist Party recognizes that the functional contents of these professionals, previously referred to as medical action assistants, are substantially different from the functional contents of the other professionals integrated into the general career of the State. On the other hand, the PS also recognizes that these professionals, because they perform functions in the field of health, specific functions, are subject to different functional duties, more demanding than those of the general career that is in force. Moreover, it is understood that in 2010 the Republic recognized this differentiation, with the creation of the professional course of health assistant technician. In conclusion, if we do not agree with all the dimensions of the petition, the Socialist Party follows the main, to which the privileged petition, which is the claim of career regulation. But why don't we follow the NAP bill? I don't know if the Members and the Members. Members have noticed, but what the NAP bill defends is different from what the petitioners claim. The PS cannot follow this initiative for a simple reason: because it does not actually meet what the petitioners want. On the contrary, what the project advocates is not career regulation, but regulation of access to the profession. And, in the PS's view, there is nothing to justify, there is nothing that bases the conditioning on access to this profession. Therefore, the Socialist Party says 'yes' to career regulation as soon as possible, but we do not want conditioning in access to the profession. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-01-31.u270	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the joint assessment of Petition No 468 / XIII / 3. a and draft Law No 1073 / XIII / 4. a. I should now like to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will start at 10 a.m. In the first point, we will have the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1788 / XIII / 3. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the National Register of Multiple Sclerosis ( RNEM ), 1664 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the implementation of a common, uniform and comparable hospital registry in the National Health Service of people with multiple sclerosis, and 1813 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a national registry on multiple sclerosis. In the second point, we will have the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 829 / XIII / 3. a ( PCP ) — Establishs criteria for non-emergency transport of patients, 805 / XIII / 3. a ( BE ) — Exemption from non-emergency payment of patients ( tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November) and 887 / XIII / 3. a (The Greens) — Non-emergency transport of patients. of the third point is the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills Nos. 929 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — eliminates the deadline for dismantling end-of-life vehicles in slaughter centres ( amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December) and 1075 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — End of one year to dismantle vehicles in certified centres. The fourth item on the agenda relates to the assessment of Petition No 236 / XIII / 2. a (UVP — Portuguese Federation of Cycling) — They call for measures to be taken in order to defend the right to pedal safely, together with Resolution Projects Nos 1872 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government update the school insurance regulation to include accidents occurring with motor-free speeds, 1927 / XIII / 4. a ( The Greens) — Extension of the scope of coverage of school insurance to bicycle travel and 1940 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing road risk on bicycle users. At the fifth point, we will have the assessment of Petition No 246 / XIII / 2. a (Cristina Maria Tavares Coelho da Silva Alves et al.) — Legislative amendments are requested with a view to the consecration of the right time of service for the cancer survivor. At the sixth item on the agenda, motion for a resolution No 77/ XIII/4 is scheduled without time for discussion. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Extradition Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, signed in Lisbon, on 25 October 2017. At the end of the debate, we will have a scheduled vote. Nothing else to deal with for today, I remember all the Members and all the Members. Members who will then proceed from the Lost Steps, and with the presence of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, the Evocation Ceremony of the Holocaust Memory Day, beginning with the opening of an exhibition. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 8 minutes.]]
