ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I ask that the galleries be opened to the public. of the first item on the agenda is, without time allocated for discussion, the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the devolution, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 293/ XIII — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes, which is of the following content: « 1 — The House of Douro was born in 1932 in full military dictatorship, integrated into the corporate organization of the State, with the nature of the trade union Federation of Vicitors of the Douro Region. As it resulted from the logic of the political regime and state corporateism, it was a public entity, compulsory registration and with the powers of this institutional framework. 2 — With Democracy, the House of Douro has encountered difficulties in adapting to the new political and social context, financial strangulations and significant heritage sacrifices. The situation was dragged, with the concern of many associates, at the same time that the panorama in the world, in Europe, in Portugal, in many wine regions and even in the Douro, changed rapidly. 3 — In 2014 the existing parliamentary majority opted for a private association formula. 4 — The diploma now submitted to the promulgation or to ‘ restore’ the House of Douro as a public entity, of compulsory registration, and chooses the nature of public association to do so by transferring to the public sector materials and goods held by private entities, in different terms generally provided for in our constitutional framework. 5 — The step taken raises several doubts. Why does it not opt for an independent Federation formula, at the top of a network of local associations, wine cellars and cooperatives, covering the Demarcated Region, which is compatible with almost all the tasks provided for in the diploma? Why, by choosing the path of a public entity, does it not adopt the model of a House of Agriculture, identical to those existing in several European countries? 6 — The preference for the nature of public association raises, in turn, several problems which cannot be ignored. First, it is a public association without any of the powers that characterize public associations, such as those of regulation and professional discipline. Second, as a public association, it should not intervene in collective bargaining, thereby involving the exercise of trade union or employer functions. 7 — In other words, the diploma creates what has already been referred to as ‘square of the institutional circle’ by qualifying as a public association what does not, in fact, seem to be, and wanting to be, by giving it powers that should not be committed to it. 8 — For the purpose of trying to avoid or at least minimize the risk of a major opportunity, I ask the Assembly of the Republic to: First, if it should not give priority to a broader reflection on other formulas, such as those set out above, that is, different from the option called ‘ restorer. ’ Secondly, if, in maintaining this option, you do not want to rethink the qualification as a public association, in the terms in which it is made, or by densifying it, or, alternatively, opening up space for another advertising qualification as well. Thirdly, if the qualification is to be maintained as a public association, in so far as the adopter is not available to at least expurgate rules which clearly do not fall within that nature, as is the case with the employer's intervention in collective employment. 9 — for this purpose, I shall return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 293/ XIII — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the message of Mr Exa is read by the President of the Republic. Before we move on to the second item on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco has several fundamental communications to make to the House. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Law No 202 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the arrangements applicable to the inventory process, which goes down to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 93 / XIII / 4 were also introduced. a ( GOV ) — Approves Convention No 188 on work in the fisheries sector adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation at its 96th meeting. the Session, held in Geneva, on 14 June 2007 and 94 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Instrument for Amendment to the Constitution of the International Labour Organization adopted by the International Labour Conference at its 72. the Session, held in Geneva on 24 June 1986, which goes down to 2. the Commission. Bill No. 1218 / XIII / 4 also entered. a ( BE ) — Free school textbooks for students who attend compulsory education in the public education network of the Ministry of Education ( second amendment to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August ), which falls to 8. Resolution Projects Nos 2167 / XIII / 4 have also been entered. a ( PSD ) — Ensures the right to vaccination protection in public schools and recommends to the Government the monitoring of the vaccination status in public educational institutions in the country, with a view to protecting all children from preventable vaccination diseases, which falls to 9. the Commission, 2168 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — By retraining and modernisation of infrastructure and by introducing a quality service in the West Line, which falls to 6. the Commission, 2169 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government move forward with the modernisation works of the West Line even during 2019, which goes down to 6. the Commission, 2170 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure the modernisation and public control of the state emergency communications network, which falls below 1. the Commission, 2171 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government classify seahorses as protected species and raise shrines in the Formosa River for their recovery, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2172 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a plan to combat territorial desertification, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2173 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government consider the ecological footprint factor in public procurement, which falls to 11. the Commission, 2174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Code of Conduct of Deputies to the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, 2175 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends support for the Portuguese dairy sector, which falls to 7. the Commission, and 2176 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Strasbourg. Finally, Parliamentary Appreciation No 137 / XIII / 4 was introduced. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No. 71 / 2019 of 27 May, which changes the regime of the special nursing career as well as the nursing career regime in public business entities and health partnerships. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u4	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u5	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u6	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u8	Mr President, from the next item on the agenda there is an up-to-date debate on the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal ) and the critical time of the rural fires, and since the Minister of Internal Administration yesterday answered several times that at the moment the Ministry of Finance had the negotiations on the current SIRESP, I wonder if we should not wait any longer for someone from the Ministry of Finance to be present at the session, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u9	Mr President, it is not up to the President to answer this question, which is certainly very relevant, but who is here can do so on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u10	If we try to connect to the SIRESP network, we get the same result!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u11	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore enter the second item on the agenda, which consists of a current debate required by the Block on the Left, under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, about the SIRESP and the response in critical times of rural fires. To open the debate, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal, SIRESP, is the pillar of emergency communications in Portugal and plays an absolutely crucial role in the security and protection of populations. However, the history of problems, failures and failures of the SIRESP comes from far away and is well known. And we all know that what is born wrong is late or never straight!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u14	The SIRESP is a good portrait of the last two decades in Portugal : the portrait of a country which has delivered to the private strategic and essential functions of the State ; the portrait of a country whose elites have become drunk, when not enriched, by the virtues and charms of public-private partnerships(PPI) ; the portrait of a country which has paid dearly for private incompetence, which, for the profits of a few, has harmed the country,... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ... not only from a financial point of view, but also with regard to its main responsibility, the guarantee of security and protection of populations. If the doubts about the transparency of awarding the competition for the creation and implementation of the SIRESP help explain the mistrust of Portuguese and Portuguese in relation to this system, reports and complaints of failures and non-compliances, not only by the populations but also by so many authorities, makes the State's intervention in this area irreversible and unacceptable. The conclusion is obvious: the SIRESP must be rescued from the hands of the private, ensuring its public protection, in the name of the public interest and the safety and protection of all. In July 2017, and following another role of failures and non-compliances of SIRESP, without which responsibilities have been established or sanctions have been applied, the Left Block presented an initiative for the State to take over the public control of SIRESP. This project was accused of extemporaneousness and rejected, with votes against the PS and abstention from the PSD and CDS. However, shortly thereafter, the Government acknowledged that part of the problem lies precisely in the private management of this strategic communications system, announcing, in a statement by the Council of Ministers, in October 2017, the intention to assume most of the social capital of the company SIRESP, SA, specifically, 54 % of the capital of the company. And, on that day, the long story of a government that wants to send to the SIRESP and to a private person who is getting bored to the government and to the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u16	The government wanted to follow a path that placed the rights of private shareholders in front of the declaration of public interest and, as a result, instead of going out with a majority position, it was the Altice who took on this role. Once again, the conclusion seems obvious: Mr. Minister of Internal Administration went to buy Milan and ended up in a tosquiat. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The State has only taken up the position of Galileo, with 33 % of the capital, and guaranteed the right to indicate two of the seven directors of the company and was unable to buy the shares of ESEGUR and Datacomp, because the Altice crossed the front. The government promised that the state would be a majority, but it did not. Worse: it has paid but it does not send anything, because the guarantee of the presence of the administrators indicated by the State also remains to be fulfilled, and, moreover, it has promised to lay down responsibilities and charge fines for non-compliances but, so far, nothing. The government promised, but it didn't. The failure of the Government's strategy has resulted in a strengthening of the Altice's position, which now does what it wants and what it fully understands. It is well seen that he even felt at ease to threaten the country with the suspension of satellite connections, the essential mechanism of redundancy of the network, and in the middle of fires in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u18	Almost two years after this statement from the Council of Ministers and this intention from the Government, the negotiating attempts for the State to take over the control of SIRESP, SA, remain endlessly in sight. On 13 May, Mr Prime Minister announced that the conclusion of the negotiation process would be 'for hours'. However, more than two weeks later there is no conclusion. Once again, the government promised, but failed to do so. We have reached this worrying and perfectly avoidable situation: in the critical period of fires, the conditions for the effective functioning of the emergency communications network remain unsecured. The conclusions that have been drawn from all of this are, once again, obvious. The first is that the management of SIRESP failed in the protection and security of populations and was ruinous to the public record. We continue hostages of individuals who have already failed is to insist on an unacceptable mistake, it is to give a bonus to those who put profit above the defence of the country's populations and security. The second conclusion is that only a public-interested management can meet this safety and protection plan in an uninterested way. The third is that the government has to amend its hand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u19	Mrs Deputy, from now on, the time of your intervention begins to discount the available time of the Left Block. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, the third conclusion is that the government has to amend its hand, recognize the mistake and catch the road. We are in the critical stage of forest fires and we must ensure the maximum safety of our populations. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration said yesterday about his justice at hearing in 1. the Commission, having all arguments justifying the public protection of SIRESP in its hand. But the government is still wrapped up in Altice's webs. And the Minister said more: he said that the framing of the negotiations was not his responsibility but rather the Ministry of Finance. Let us hope that Mário Centeno understands the message, since he has taken an absolutely central place in this bad picture where the government is staying. The absence, in this debate, of the Ministry of Internal Administration or of someone from the Ministry of Finance may leave the « fava » for Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Protection, but makes clear the heavy consciences of the Government. For the Left Block, it is urgent to act and ensure the safety of populations. We therefore insist: if the Government protects, the Left Block again delivers the decision to the Assembly of the Republic to urge the Government to urgently withdraw the contract with the SIRESP Society, SA, by rescuing the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal to the State. By the Left Block, the defence of the security of the populations will be played on account of the profits of the private. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u21	Madam Member, as indicated and combined, the most time you have spent will now be discounted at the stage of the debate. You now have the floor by the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: As we know, the SIRESP results from a public-private partnership and, as is the case in public-private partnerships, also in this public interest stayed behind. Far back! It is a good business for the private, it is true, but it is a disastrous business from the financial point of view, but not only for the state and for the taxpayers. in this case, in fact, it is enough to remember that the Portuguese are paying five times more than the value spent by the consortium on this emergency communications network. But the SIRESP process is still a process with many highlights since its creation, or even before its creation. It is a very untransparent process, obscure and with many strange elements to mix. Let us see: this was a public-private partnership created by a PSD/CDS management government, with opinions from the Attorney-General of the Republic saying that a management government did not have the power to approve a business with the importance of SIRESP. More: this was a case with acts which were annulled, with the Court of Auditors doubting the legality of the invitation to tender and criticising the deadline given by the Government of Durão Barroso for the submission of tenders to the invitation to tender, which was only 52 days. It was also a competition where only one competitor appeared, Motorola, in partnership with the Lusae Business Society, a contest in which the Government of Durão Barroso allowed the only competitor to reform his proposal because it was initially said that it was inappropriate for the public interest to continue. That is to say, when we look at the entire SIRESP procedure, in particular for the short term given for the submission of tenders for invitations to tender, at the time of the Government of Durão Barroso, probably even to remove other competitors, when we look at the ability that the same Government has just given to the competitor to reform his proposal, rather than open a new invitation to tender, we have the idea that this contest or this business was exactly done to the extent of Motorola and the Lusa de Negócios and not to the extent of the public interest, as is required and as it should be. However, this situation completely distorts everything that is intended to safeguard with public tenders, in particular the transparency of contracts, but still departs from the public interest, which should be the greatest premise in these contracts and also in these tenders. It was therefore a very strange process. But in addition, we still have the fragility that SIRESP has been demonstrating over time. Unfortunately, everyone knows the SIRESP, but knows him, above all, for the worst reasons, because of its failures, its weaknesses and its inadequacies. Moreover, the very shortcomings and weaknesses that the SIRESP has been demonstrating over time, with regard to the continuation of the responsibilities arising from the contract, have been a constant, are the rule and are not even the exception. We are talking about fragility that not only began with the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande but that goes back at least to 2014, right after the tragic events of Carregal do Sal. And it is not only the reports of the populations that indicate failures in the SIRESP, it is also the authorities who tell us about the failures in communications, not only during fires but also in simulation operations. The scenario is even worse if we take into account that the State does not have the power to, for example, require the consortium to require a maximum time of replacement of the emergency network if it ceases to operate in a given area. That is to say, in an emergency situation, if the network fails, the state is bound by feet and hands, and this is absolutely inconceivable and much less in emergency situations. However, in such important matters as emergency communications, the State cannot depend on the private and much less be subject to threats of satellite signal shutdown. It can't be! The Greens therefore consider that, given the importance that the integrated system of emergency networks represents for the country, it is necessary to bring the public interest for the equation and, in this sense, we continue to defend that the State has to call upon it the responsibilities that are currently given to the consortium that manages the SIRESP. And if the SIRESP is obsolete, as it seems to be, the best would be until the State itself implemented a new root system, on an emergency and security basis, which could embrace and take advantage of more recent technologies and be able to cover the whole territory. In conclusion, the Greens consider that the SIRESP has been ineffective and therefore unable to guarantee the safety and protection of populations, for which, and on behalf of the public interest, we believe that the State should call upon it the responsibilities that are currently being given to the consortium that manages the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u23	The Bureau no longer registers. There are several parliamentary groups that have time, PSD, PS, Left Block, CDS-PP, PCP, and also the Government. I hope that someone will soon sign up; if we do not move on to the next item on the agenda. Let's wait a few seconds. [[Pause.]] For an intervention by the PS, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The issue of the fight against fires and the ongoing integrated management, which is increasingly approaching the prevention of combat, were, in fact, the topic of the 15th of May debate, by the impulse of the Prime Minister, in a clear demonstration by the central government that civil protection has occupied on the government agenda and also in the Socialist Party. In addition to the 15-year debate yesterday, for more than 5 hours in 1. the Commission, the Minister of Internal Administration was present to discuss these matters and to provide all information and clarifications, either in the context of firefighting or in the context of the SIRESP, in particular. from the Socialist Party and its parliamentary group, it is never too much to discuss these issues of the fight against fires and the SIRESP communication system, until we are at the forefront of this process, since we have come to work tirelessly in the robustness of the civil protection system, either at national level or at European level, where we have been decisive and active in strengthening and amending the European civil protection mechanism, with the rescue mechanism( plan the strongthen EU civil protection responds to the disaster). We have come to invest and train professionals and also the SIRESP itself has come to be robust. In addition, its resilience was doubled with the acquisition of four new mobile stations in 2018, being now available eight mobile stations, which doubled the resistance and resilience of the system. It is also important to remind the Democratic Social Party and the CDS that, knowledgeable of problems and inadequacies, nothing has been done to solve them. In time, they commissioned a report and implemented only two recommendations in a total of 20 proposals that were then submitted to the previous Government. What matters is that it was with this government and with the Socialist Party that very important issues were resolved, with satellite communications redundancy solutions at 451 base stations, now being available 18 mobile generatorspre positioned and firefighters have 100 % coverage in the GL SIRESP (geolocation computer application). As mentioned yesterday at 1. the Commission, by Mr Minister of Internal Administration, have held very productive meetings of the SIRESP network user council, which have come to recognize the operational capacity of the system, which has been filling the failures that were evident in the 2017 fires but which in 2018 were in fact resolved with the redundancy solutions I just mentioned. It is in the public domain, of course, that there are legal and contractual problems, which are in the process of being resolved because Portuguese security must always be a priority — and it is! — for this parliamentary group and for the Government. Likewise, Altice has come to say and ensure that the security of the network will never be called into question. It is also important to know the technical assessment to SIRESP, which has been entrusted by the Government to an independent entity whose report will be presented here in the Assembly of the Republic, as it was also mentioned yesterday, and in this parliamentary group we always prefer to decide on a basis rather than precipitate ourselves on solutions that are not based on knowledge. The negotiations under the aegis of the Ministry of Finance are taking place, are of an urgent nature, as we know, and have a great objective, which is to ensure the continuation of the security that the SIRESP brings to the national system and to the Civil Protection and to ensure the public nature of the network. That's what we're betting on. The state must have a decisive and control role and that is the way we are looking for and that we certainly want to guarantee and place confidence in this ongoing negotiating process. As mentioned in the last 15-year debate — and we are talking about the SIRESP but also about the fire fighting season — it is good to remember that we are making a significant investment on the three pillars of Civil Protection that changed the system we had, a system that was very focused on fighting, where we lived with a neglected territory and where risk behaviors abounded, which required a model change and a systemic reform. That's what we're doing. The paradigm began to change, from then on, with the forest reform, which started in 2016 and continues to consolidate itself: in the area of prevention, surveillance and monitoring, two thirds of the budgetary reinforcement of EUR 212 million has been affected, cleaning up land in an increasing way, with an extended network of forest surveillance posts and video surveillance which will cover 70 % of the territory; in the awareness-raising and self-protection of populations and in front of investment and in the face of the fight, with more human resources in the GNR, in the National Civil Protection Authority, plus 200 forest guards and 500 forest-steam teams, and more equipment and vehicles, a firefighting device that will have the greatest ever number of means involved in all phases of the commitment, with emphasis on strengthening the effects, transport and air resources in the months from May to October.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u25	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u26	I conclude now, Mr President. The Fourth European Conference for Adaptation to Climate Change is taking place in Lisbon, where rural fires and scientific incorporation and innovation are also discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u28	It is a debate and a cause that brings us together and the new generations have already told us that we need to act differently. It is necessary to act now and now and that is what we are doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u29	Mr Jorge Machado, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State: When we talk about SIRESP it is important to clarify that we are talking about the emergency communications system for all security forces and services and we are talking about a network of communications that also serves what is all the civil protection in our country. Therefore, we are talking about a network that is absolutely vital for the normal functioning of all security forces and services in our country, so it is obvious to the CFP that this communications network could never be in the hands of privates and conditioned to the profit perspective that the privates have. It turns out that, when the SIRESP was built, it was through a public-private partnership, an option of a PSD/CDS-PP management government, with a minister who had particular links to the SLN/BPN group to take particular importance in the negotiation. Therefore, the SIRESP was negotiated by the PSD government / CDS-PP, a complete national disaster, having assumed a ruinous business for the state. The result of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry to BPN, we know that SIRESP cost the State EUR 485 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u31	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u32	... but we also know by this Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry which, at most, cost privates EUR 80 million. I repeat the figures: the private have spent EUR 80 million on the network and the state has paid EUR 485 million. More than EUR 400 million was right for the private pockets that the PSD and CDS chose to set up a network, even above with major inadequacies from the point of view of its operation. Therefore, SIRESP was a brutal business for the private, with enormous losses to the public record. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, it makes no sense that this communication system is in the hands of the private, and therefore the State must take public control. And it is important here to highlight one aspect which we referred to yesterday in 1. the Commission and which is not of little importance: the SIRESP was built with BPN / SLN, but also with BES, via ESEGUR, and with PT, which was also privatized. However, the option of successive governments, PS and PSD / CDS-PP, was to privatise PT and nationalize the losses of BPN and BES, but never nationalized the assets of BPN and BES. If we had nationalized the assets of BPN and BES, as proposed by the PCP, today we would be in substantially different conditions to talk about SIRESP. But no, once again the option of PS, PSD and CDS-PP was to favour the private, the negotiation, and not to defend the public interest. Today, Mr Secretary of State, the CFP Parliamentary Group has already submitted to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution recommending to the Government measures to ensure the modernisation and public control of the emergency communications network for the State. And we talk about modernization because we are aware that the current SIRESP model is obsolete; 15 years in communication technology is a long time and requires a modernisation of the SIRESP network. We believe that it is unacceptable that the State is now promoting the acquisition of SIRESP. That's all I needed! After we paid EUR 485 million for a network that cost 80 million to mount, after we paid about EUR 40 million a year, which we injected into the pockets of the private who failed in their responsibilities, now the government is promoting a purchase, i.e. buying and delivering more money to the private for a network that has been ours for a long time? Oh, my God! We've paid for it five, six, seven, eight times, Mr. Secretary of State! Therefore, the State must take public control of the network without paying more than 1 cent to the private, who have not fulfilled what their contractual obligations are. That is what we clearly defined in the draft resolution, and even with the aggravating that a working group has been set up, whose presence in 1. the Commission has already requested the CFP to discuss the future of the communications network. Now, the state is buying a network today, injecting more money into privates, and then discussing a new communications network, without realizing the role that SIRESP and its technology will have in this same communications network. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, once I've wasted my time, I still want to say that SIRESP was a brutal business for the private. We need to defend the public interest, we need to modernize our country's emergency communications because there are indeed many gaps to close. The CFP is committed to making the solution found a solution that promotes public control of the emergency communications network. PSD and CDS-PP will now say that they don't care whether it's private or public, what matters is that it works well, but it's a lie. What has always mattered to the PSD and to the CDS-PP was the negotiation and this government has to put "a foot in the brake" with regard to this emergency communications network business. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u33	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have discussed the SIRESP — it is not the first time that we do it and probably will not be the last — for a very simple and very obvious reason: it is that, after the tragic fires of 2017, especially after Pedrogon, this communication system and this public utility network were immediately pointed out in the protection the failure that was ultimately related to the tragedy and what happened. In fact, it was not only this, because we know that there were other incapacitys, other failures and other incures in the tragic accidents of 2017, but there was a focus on the SIRESP network on the part of this drama and this tragedy. It must be noted that, immediately after that, we have seen here, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, to Prime Minister Antonio Costa, starting with a very radical statement, shooting at PT as a company, and saying that "if PT does not ensure, we will have to look for another company", i.e., looking soon to do what this government does better, that it is to shoot somewhere, trying to shake some water from the hood and pretending that, in any event, it is nothing to the government and the government has nothing to do with anything. We then saw the company's attempt to hold the company accountable and then saw the Minister of Internal Administration, today our colleague, Constance Urbano de Sousa, announce that the company SIRESP would be highly penalized and would pay serious fines, relevant, for the non-compliance and for the failures it had suffered. That was the announcement that was made at the time. It is true that these fines have never come anywhere, however, even if we know that the government was, at some point, in a well-known and credible opinion, a society of lawyers, Linklaters, which supported the possibility of these same fines. But they didn't happen, and they didn't happen because the government failed in its goal. That is apparently the government's data were not true, so they would be wrong, as we know today. The already Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrito, came to say that there were about 9,000 hours of failures of the SIRESP, but apparently the failures were not those, were not the company's responsibility, and therefore there is the first obvious and obvious failure of the government — or the second, if we consider the Prime Minister's criticisms. From then on, the Left Block, also at that time, brought to plenary a project, which today resumes, of nationalization—so to speak, and I hope not to be abusive in my expression—of this system and that the network will become public. We said at the time and we repeat today that we will clearly not vote against this project — as we did for the first time, again — because for us the question is not whether the network is public or not, the issue is in operation and taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u36	This is because, Mr President, of course, we do not have any kind of ideological obsession, we do not want to transform Portugal either in North Korea or Venezuela, and we do not think that everything has to be public, but it does not scandalise us that a network of a protection system can have, and have, public control. Moreover, Mr. Jorge Machado will be well reminded that this was precisely the announcement of the government. What did Prime Minister Antonio Costa say? What did Minister Eduardo Cabrite say? They said: "We will guarantee the public majority. Let's take the stakes and it's going to be public'. Again, what happened? They failed, they failed, they forgot that the Altice could exercise preference, they forgot that little detail, so they failed again. Next, what did you say? As usual in the government, they said: "This went well. We have 33 % and so, with 33 %, we have administrators; with administrators we will take control of this and, therefore, the problem will be solved" — again deceiving us in this matter! Then there was a lot of news from newspapers: « Government hides fire document for more than a year» ; « CDS and PSD require documents » ; « Government does not present reports ». The government has not been transparent, it has hidden information on this matter and has therefore failed again. To finish, and to date, two aspects that are fundamental: this system is essential for the fire season that is approaching and what do we know? We have a threat from the company that, based on investments that will have been made in this redundancy network, in satellites, which are contractually supported, requires payment of a debt — finally, we can discuss the amount, if there are 11 or 13 million, in this case it is not the most relevant – and says that the system can stop because of that same debt and we have a Prime Minister who says that the problem is being solved. On the other hand, yesterday I asked Minister Eduardo Cabrite, who was in fact here, as Mrs Susana Amador said, but the Minister did not respond to anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u37	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u38	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Yesterday, I asked the Minister how the government's history was that 1,000 km of cables would be buried. The Prime Minister realized that they were 600 but, as far as we know, they are 100. The Prime Minister told us: «The solution is for hours». From that moment until now 372 hours have passed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u39	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u40	We have no answer, it is once again a horrendous failure of the government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u41	Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u42	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: First of all, it is important to put here some truth that the CFP and the Greens have tried to hide about the SIRESP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u43	How?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u44	The current SIRESP contract was signed by the current Prime Minister, then Minister of Internal Administration, António Costa, in an Eng.o José Socrates government. I have here the office of the Council of Ministers. It's always good to remember not to be nervous. [[PS protests.]] And it is also good to know who is that at the time represented SIRESP in the negotiation, who represented Motorola... PS and PCP protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u45	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the speaker to speak. Please, Mr. Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u46	Mr President, it is true that during the debate that took place yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Minister of Internal Administration was unable to answer any of the questions about SIRESP without having « dispatched » to the Minister of Finance. Whenever there's a problem, it's another minister's fault. The planes are the fault of the Minister of Defence, the problem of SIRESP is the Minister of Finance. The truth is that the government has committed itself to keeping most of the capital of the SIRESP and has neither met nor justified itself. The government announced to the country that it was going to penalise SIRESP for its failures and did not penalise or explain why this did not happen. The Prime Minister has yet to promise the burial of the SIRESP cables to protect them and has not buried them, has not resolved, has not answered. We continue here 383 hours later, waiting for Mr. Prime Minister's promise to be fulfilled, when he said that this agreement was for hours. For us, the important thing is not to know whether the state has the majority or minority of capital, for us the important thing is that the SIRESP works and does not fail exactly at times when people are most lacking. We must remember that this communication system is vital, especially in the hours when everyone else has already failed, but it is at this very moment that this system has also failed the Portuguese. The government promises to solve this problem, but it never solved it.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u47	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u48	The State, the Government of Antonio Costa, failed again in the SIRESP, failed again in the preparation of civil protection for the time of fire. Today, this is a subject we cannot hide. The Minister of Internal Administration yesterday admitted that 16 more air vehicles would be hired by direct adjustment. This is not only due to an increase in the alert but also to the incompetence of a government which has failed once again in the early preparation of the fire season. The Minister of Internal Administration has even said that, this year and this stage, there are already more means than last year, and he has denied that last year, at this stage, there are no means. As Eng.o António Guterres would say « It is to make the account». Therefore, either lied yesterday or lied last year, because last year there were supposed to be 32 air vehicles, this year there was supposed to be 38 at this stage and, by the way, there are still 16 missing. But juggling is not just this and it will be good to remind Mr. Secretary of State that the year in which there were more air resources until it was in a socialist year in 2010 in which there were the same as this year. What this government is doing is again manipulating, because it accounts for the means of recognition and observation rented and of the Air Force as means of combating fires, when, in fact, they are not, as there are no more means this year, there are the same ones that happened in 2010 — that if they all arrive and stay in office. in this regard, the Portuguese cannot rely on the Government, but the PSD, its parliamentary group and the Portuguese people trust the Portuguese firefighters, to whom the Government owes at this stage EUR 35 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u49	That's right! Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u50	It's a bald government,... [[You son of a bitch! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u51	...which owes the firefighters, who is the one who needs the most. Every day letters arrive to us and today we are one more of the firemen of Mourão, to whom the government does not pay in due time. We trust the Civil Protection, we trust the GNR, we trust the municipalities to fulfill the role that the government does not prepare in due course. The Portuguese can trust firefighters, they can trust the security forces; we cannot trust the government to do what it deserves in time and time to give the right answers and, much more, when it hides the truth to the Portuguese, when it tries to manipulate the truth and when it holds the Court of Auditors responsible for delays in preparing for its responsibility, especially because of incompetence of management. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u52	You now have the floor by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Protection, José Artur Neves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thank you for the opportunity you give us to talk about SIRESP, this robust state network. It is important to clarify in this debate some wrong ideas about SIRESP that have been installed in public opinion and that are also very much from what we have heard here. It is important to say that a wrong first idea that always appears is that the SIRESP network is only for fires. Nothing more wrong! There are about 40 000 users who daily use this network, distributed by more than 125 entities, to which the operations of 433 firefighter bodies are added, processing more than 35 million calls per year, i.e. about 3 million calls per month. Last year, the increase in the circulation of calls by fires during the summer was only 8, 9 % of the number of calls compared with the average of the months from January to December. The second wrong idea about the SIRESP — I have heard it here, as it is often heard — is that it is an outdated network. Nothing more false! There are 35 countries in Europe that use TETRA (Terrestrial Trunked Radio) technology as an emergency and security communications technology; Portugal has the most modern TETRA network among all, in software and hardware. The SIRESP network supports various modes of communication, with secure and encrypted communications, including private calls, group calls and direct radio calls. It allows sending text messages and having a georeference service through the SIRESP-GL system, which we introduced last year, allowing commanders to have the georeference of all operations. It also allows an operator in difficulty to load on the help button and, immediately, to be cared for and rescued. The third wrong idea about the operation of SIRESP is that it is a network that has failures. In 2018, the Government installed in the 451 antennas of the SIRESP network distributed across the country all the systems of redundancy via satellite and still all the conditions for, in less than 6 hours, precisely in the period when the battery has the capacity to have energy, a generator that supplies energy to them arrives. The best examples were last year, in the Monchique incident and in Hurricane Leslie, where the service worked with 100 % availability, without failures or interruptions. More than a million calls were processed, all commercial networks failed and the SIRESP network remained operational. It is therefore this set of actions that have been carried out and that allows us to transmit to the Portuguese that we have a robust, safe, capable network. Therefore, it is clear to all that this network allows different modes of communication and different services, which support the operational activity of State services on a daily basis. It is a network of resilient, robust emergency communications that ensures the safety of Portuguese. At last year's and this year's meetings of the User Council, there was no single failure, no complaint, only the registration, in particular of the National Association of Municipalities, of a request for rapid certification to more municipal chambers to use the SIRESP network. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u54	I don't know if the PSD wants to use the time it still has. On the contrary, we are moving to the final stage of the debate. [[Pause.]] Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government had the opportunity to participate in this debate and, as yesterday, did not respond to any of the concerns of both the Left Block, the PCP and the CDS, or the PSD. The Government does not explain again what happened in the negotiation, the Government does not explain again how the SIRESP will work and how it will be paid what the Court of Auditors denied was paid by the Government. Mr Secretary of State presented himself here as the great defender of SIRESP, saying that it works beautifully, which is a very different image than Portuguese and operational ones have. I therefore leave here again a question for the Government to have the opportunity to explain to the Portuguese: at the very point where the negotiation of the SIRESP is, how it will work this year and also the truth about the operation of geolocation or georeference. The system always had this possibility, but that does not mean it was working on the ground. In fact, Mr Secretary of State, despite all the government's propaganda in this area, what is true is that firefighters on the ground continue to fight fire in the same way, without technical support for operational decision, without more renewed and more qualified means. The government did not invest in firefighters, it only invested in propaganda, conversation and creating a reality that does not correspond to what we know on the ground. There are more clean areas, there is more government commitment, it is true, but this does not translate into the reality of the direct fight against fires in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u56	Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Protection, José Artur Neves, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u57	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, the operation of the network is ensured as described. In addition, one of the reference shareholders of the company SIRESP, SA has already publicly stated that the established redundancy solutions will continue to operate and Mr Finance Minister — as he said yesterday, Minister of Internal Administration — reported that he is developing negotiations for the state to take a position of control of the company. But the most important thing in this process has to do with redundancy, with the operation of the network and we guarantee it, as last year, in two major events, we guarantee the safety of Portuguese when no mobile network has been operating. The Minister of Finance has already said that it will not be in the public square that will discuss these matters and in due course will transmit the outcome of these negotiations. It is also important to say that the SIRESP-GL was increased last year in all firefighter bodies, with the collaboration of the Portuguese Fire Force League, of all federations in all districts, so that, through this system and with a very small investment that made all the difference today, we could have all control of the operators on the ground. Therefore, I would like to say that knowledge has been introduced here, with decision-support cells, with the collaboration of AGIF (Integrated Rural Fire Management Agency ), of collaborative laboratories of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature and Forests) and the GNR in particular but of all civil protection agents, in close cooperation whose results are those we know: less 68 % of burned area compared to the average of the last 10 years and less 44 % of ignitions compared to the average of the last 10 years. Mr President, I therefore believe that the conditions for all civil protection officers are more than guaranteed to continue to work and to ensure the safety of Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u58	Have you paid the firefighters or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u59	To conclude the debate, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the House, Mr Secretary of State : Of course, SIRESP not only serves communications in operations theatres during fires, of course it serves everything, but it helps even more to the idea that it is an absolutely strategic and essential communication system for the country, for the security of the country and for the protection of populations. With regard to the failures and non-compliances of SIRESP, we all know and are widely documented and explained in the various reports that have been made on SIRESP. This is not an issue of opinion, it is facts that are documented and proven. Mr Secretary of State, the SIRESP was indeed a business for private individuals and we hope that we will not now be attending another business in this new negotiation process that tells us that the government is taking action to hold the majority position in SIRESP, SA. Mr Secretary of State brought here a number of compliments and explanations on the SIRESP, but did not respond to what needed to be answered in this debate. Mr Secretary of State, he did not answer why there are still no State administrators in the SIRESP, as the government has undertaken. Mr Secretary of State, he did not answer why negotiations have not been concluded, as the Government has committed itself, and that they have already come from the Council of Ministers communiqué of October 2017, i.e. two years have passed without this process being completed. Why? Finally, Mr Prime Minister said on 13 May that it would be for hours to complete this process. Why does it also continue without being completed almost two weeks ago? Why does the State not effectively hold the majority of the company’s share capital, as it has undertaken? Mr Secretary of State, he also did not bring us here guarantees—as yesterday the Minister of Internal Administration failed to do so in 1. The Commission — whether we are really prepared for this period of fires already under way. We know that SIRESP is for the whole year, but we know as well as the fire season is especially demanding, and all the conditions for the protection of the country's populations and security must really be ensured. With the failures and failures we have been accustomed to seeing in the SIRESP, which call into question this security and protection, and which also question and are damaging to the state safes, we cannot rest. Today too, we have not been able to obtain any concrete answers from the Secretary of State. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u61	We will move on to the third point of our agenda today, which is intended for political declarations. The first political statement on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will be made by Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are serious challenges that Portuguese face and remain beyond the foam from day to day. And it is not just a right that is a fundamental duty, it is a duty for all of us, in this House, to scrutinize and monitor what the government does not do, because when the government does not do what it should, it puts us all at stake. We all know that the ageing of the population is a reality in the world, aggravated in some countries, such as Portugal. The United Nations reports, for example, point out that in 2050 Portugal will be the nation with the highest average age on earth. According to data from the INE ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ), in the last Territorial Portrait of Portugal, the aging rate, between 2011 and 2016, increased by 95% of the Portuguese municipalities. In Portugal, for every 100 young people there are more than 150 elderly people, a disproportionate proportion has grown over 50 % in the last 20 years. There are several municipalities with aging rates of 250 %, 300 % and even 400 %. And the question that has to be put is very simple: how do these people live? Who's holding them? What answers do we have to give them? The Social Charter, a report coordinated by the Ministry of Social Security, reports annually on the set of social responses for older people. What is evident in this Social Charter is that, unlike the 2000 to 2015 cycle, there has been a consistent increase in social responses, since 2015 this evolution practically stagnated. In Portugal — it is a fact, it is not a political sophism —, between 2015 and 2017, has decreased the coverage rate of social responses for older people. This means something very simple: people who ask, for example, to go to a home or to have home support wait longer, too often even get desperate. This is the reality of the country. When the state fails, it is the closest family members who have to leave, so many times, everything to deal with theirs, who are dependent on them. It was also so urgent for the government to move forward with the status of informal caregiver for people who cared for dependents, whether older people, chronic patients or people with disabilities. The importance of the status of the informal caregiver was, moreover, recognised consensually by all parties, here, in the Assembly, and the CDS presented two consistent and balanced proposals. by the government, however, virtually nothing. in this, as in the social responses, the government is the face of stagnation. in the same way, in other proposals which the CDS has put forward, in particular through a policy that strengthens the general prevention of crimes against the elderly, the government has limited itself to doing nothing. About a year ago, the APAV (Portuguese Victim Support Association) recalled that this reality of crimes against the elderly corresponded to a silent and invisible fire, increasingly deflaming with more force. We therefore proposed that criminal policy should be reviewed and that an expanded network should be promoted in the territory in order to respond closely to this scourge. The government, however, and again, did nothing. To make this whole situation worse, this whole omission, which occurs in terms of the allocation and payment of the first social benefits is absolutely regrettable, it is even shocking.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u64	Since the beginning of the Legislature, we have followed the serious situation that the delays of the National Pension Centre are causing thousands of people. Despite our insistence, the Government does not even provide basic information: statistical data on expectations, the evolution of demand numbers and the average response time. The CDS has already requested this information more than 10 times! There was even a request to the President of the Social Security Institute ( ISS ), subscribed by all parties. So far, nothing! Where's Dr. Rui Fiolhais? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u66	Months have passed without replying to this House, despite the requests of the Members and the insistence of the committee's services. The truth is that withholding information is not innocent. The government does not want to know what people are suffering and how long they wait to see their pension entitlement granted. The Government does not want the size of its incapacity and incompetence to be known. In the absence of official data, the Ombudsman has been the echo and voice of those who do not have time: 40 % of the 60 daily complaints she receives are related to the functioning of social security, related to the allocation of pensions, which leads her to identify this as the first problem of administration and services in Portugal. Only in respect of delays in the granting of pensions was an increase of four times the number of complaints. The stories that come to us are from despair of people and families. If people lose any income for months—in some cases, years! — How do you think they can survive? Oh, my God! The shocking situations, from a human point of view, in which so many find themselves are absolutely contrasting with news that account for social security structures taken by partisan comrades...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u68	...that funds the State without fulfilling its most basic mission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u70	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is proving to be totally incapable of responding to the needs of all and, in particular, those who need it most. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u71	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u72	I will finish, Mr. President. The government has been disinvested in social responses, has failed in relation to informal caregivers and, above all, has disregarded the urgency of requests for pension allocation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u73	Mr President, four Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u74	Mr. President, I will answer individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u75	Therefore, you have the floor, first of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, this issue is of particular importance and the Socialist Party attaches to it so much importance that it considers that it should be treated very strictly and with much truth. in this sense, I am surprised to hear from Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, if we take into account the practice of the party to which he belongs, when he was part of the government. I would like to remind you - of course, with only a small note, of some measures that actually led to the replacement of the incomes that the Socialist Party carried out, and that they had been cut off - or even, some of them, even suspended - during the management of the PSD / CDS-PP. I refer, for example, to assistance from third parties. The honourable Member asks 'how do these people live? Who's holding them? And I tell you that this is a good question, for which you, for a long time, have had no answer and have not bothered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] I also tell you that these people, what they need, essentially, is to be treated with dignity and respect. [[PSD protests.]] I also tell you that we increase pensions and support for the elderly. Do you remember this benefit? It was one of those you have reduced and the Socialist Party has restored. We therefore receive no lessons from anyone regarding solidarity and attention to the older ones. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue of the status of informal caregiver, the Socialist Party has this issue on the agenda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u77	It's on the agenda, it's on the agenda! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u78	... will present a proposal and I have no doubt that the status of the informal caregiver will indeed be a reality. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] With regard to the issue of the processing of the first pensions — which you have referred to, although slightly — it is good to know that the National Pension Centre has already been equipped with around 80 workers, through an internal competition, 64...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u79	Mrs. Deputy, you've reached the limit of the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u80	So I will just conclude, Mr President. Mr President, what I would like to ask you, and because, indeed, the issue is of great importance to the Socialist Party, is whether, in fact, the CDS and, in this case, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, who brought these questions here, has the difference between the practice of the previous government and the current one. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u81	You have the floor to answer Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u82	Mr President, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, thank you very much for your question. Madam Member, I believe that the first thing we have to do, when we are discussing a matter of this importance, is to remove a speech that looks like a football story between two teams: the previous government and the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u84	It is, Madam President, what we are talking about here is a situation that concerns specific people. I ask you: did you or did you not sign a request for information to the President of the Social Security Institute to provide us with information on delays at the National Pension Centre? Did you sign up or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u85	Yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u86	Subscribe! I was there! So far, weeks and months have passed, we have not received an answer. I was expecting the Socialist Party to apologize or to step up this request. [[Protests by PS MP Maria da Luz Rosinha.]] You know, Mrs Deputies, today, to speak on a partisan perspective about these issues, after the scandal — that the Portuguese knew yesterday — that is happening in certain district centres of social security, of fellow partisans, is not a good idea, Mrs Deputies! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u87	And who fired the people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u88	It's no good idea we'll take the matter there! Mrs Deputies, what is true is that we currently have the Ombudsman saying that there is a right to information that is requested, and that the CDS has requested, that it is a right of everyone, and the Government does not give that information, and that the situation is truly dramatic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u89	Dramatic!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u90	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, it is not the occasion here to make reports of previous governments and current governments, what is needed is to respond to people's problems, and the government is stalling the answers on various matters. That's what I'd like to hear from the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u91	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Mercês Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia and the CDS for bringing these issues to the colloquium and discussion, all of them of great importance. In the short time I have, allow me to address the problem of aging. Our society is aging, we must look at these people, and at their families, with great respect and seeking the most appropriate answers. Does the honourable Member believe that this has happened? It is that, in aging, the absence of answers is loud about the hospitalization of people in hospitals, people, those, who stay there, often for the time they shouldn't stay, because that's not the place,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u93	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u94	... because institutions do not have the conditions to receive them, since the State pays them late and bad hours. I remember that the National Network of Integrated Continued Care is scarce and of late response. It is often due to the goodwill of many institutions which are due to their operation, in particular the response of palliative care. With regard to the delay in pensions, Mrs Rosinha, of the Socialist Party, said that I very much regard and respect that the past was the cause of the lack of employees. O Mrs. Member, we still saw yesterday on TVI, who wanted to see,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u95	A disaster!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u96	...that the gentlemen. Officials, some, with all due respect, have time to go to parties during the normal working hours, encouraged by many of their leaders. There's not so much lack of staff! There's not so much shortage! In addition, almost four years have passed and that is no longer the case. We must respond to those who wait, find answers and those who are unable to have to take on the difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u97	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u98	Mr President, answers have to be given, especially to people with mental illness whose situation is shocking and the government has not looked at them. There has been nothing in the budget of the plan itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u99	Not a resignation, not an apology!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u100	Does the honourable Member believe that this is a policy of support for aging, of respect for people with mental illness, of respect for patients?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u101	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u102	Do you think this is a social policy or is it just talk, a lot of promise and nothing done? Oh, my God! Thank you for your understanding, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u103	You have the floor to answer Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u104	Mr President, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, thank you very much for your question. It is really extraordinary what we have witnessed and that has been disseminated in the media, without any movement in order to apologize, to hesitate, to try to correct what the whole country has witnessed. at a time when exponential delays occur, which we have not been able to determine as much, because the government sounds the information that is requested, but we know that there are, because we have several known cases, even of our proximity and of citizens who write to us that they are waiting for more than one year, in some cases two years, in other cases for more than three years, without the response of social security services, we simultaneously see shocking images of social security structures totally outside the reality of the citizens they have to serve,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u105	... only in fully incomprehensible partisan comrades, and there are no ministers, State Secretaries, responsible, to assume any responsibility. In view of this, the only response given either by the Socialist Party, or often by the other parties, is to refer to the responsibility of the previous government, as if they had arrived three years or three months ago to the functions in which they are. Minister Vieira da Silva arrived at the Ministry, with government responsibilities in 1999 ; he has worked as an adviser since 1995 ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u106	It's true, it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u107	...you know that house like nobody else. And, in fact, what we see, on the PS side, is about aging, but about aging in places, because they only deal with them, not giving the answer that people need, that people demand, because they are the most in need that they are concerned and there must be satisfactory answers. Unfortunately, it has already been seen that this government is unable to do so. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u108	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u109	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, in fact the lack of employees in social security has had a gross impact on people's lives. And it has had gross impacts either at the level of delay in payment and at the allocation of pensions, either at the level of payment of maternity and paternity allowances, either at the level of payment of funeral allowances, at the level of medical leave payments and at the time of follow-up of adoption procedures, which is justified only in the same way: there are no public employees else, social security has fewer public servants and they are all needed and the reinforcement of all those who are missing. The CFP has been monitoring in particular the situation of the National Pension Centre not since 2019, not since 2018 nor even since 2015, is since 2011. Since 2011 the CFP has warned of the structural shortage of employees in the National Pension Centre, because the situation with which Portuguese people have been confronted, either in terms of the payment of pensions and the allocation of pensions, or in terms of the payment of other rights, is unacceptable and raises fundamental rights. That's why we've been alerted to that. It is necessary to ensure the recruitment of all professionals who are missing and it is also necessary to take immediate action, as has already been taken, and the CFP has repeatedly compared the Prime Minister with this need, to ensure time and time response in the allocation of old age pensions. But, Mr President, we cannot fail to ask you here a question. If it is true that the problem in social security is structural, you should look at two lines behind you and ask Mr Mota Soares if he regrets that, when he was a minister, he had sent 700 social security officials for requalification. [[PCP applause.]] to the CDS it is only right to do one thing, admit an error and admit that firing 700 workers did not at all help the very serious problem of structural deficiencies of workers in social security. Mr. Deputies, it has been worth listening to you here, and you know why? It is good for the CDS to stay on this side, it is good for the CDS to leave the government, because as soon as it leaves the government it begins to notice where there are public officials at least, since, when it is in the government, it only signals where there are more public officials and promotes layoffs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u110	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u111	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, thank you very much for your question. Madam Member, we could be here having a debate on this government or the previous government, as if this were a football report, but people who have the receipt of their pensions are not strictly getting anything from that. But there is one thing I assure you: at the most difficult time, when we were in the government — probably the most difficult time since April 25 — you have not heard any Ombudsman make complaints about late pensions as you now hear. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u112	So we didn't hear? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u113	You haven't heard, Mrs. Deputy! [[PCP protests.]] You did not hear, Mrs Deputy, because there were no delays that exist today. In fact, the honourable Member speaks of the reduction of employees in social security, but, if we really consider the reality that the Minister for Social Security brought us here, to the committee, he knows perfectly well that the fall came from 2010 and extended until 2017, therefore, is also the responsibility of this government. We can discuss if more employees are needed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u114	They're necessary, as they were!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u115	... but there is one thing that is necessary, whether or not more officials are needed, which is organisation and moral, because what we have seen, in social security, about parties—and we have not yet heard any government officials distance themselves — has not seen in the previous government. This is serious, it is very serious, because, as long as they are not responding to the people who need it most, they are spreading resources into partisan comrades, absolutely unacceptable. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This, on our part, Mrs Deputies, can be sure that you will not have any provisions and will always have our voice of complaint. But I also tell you, Mrs. Member, the lady, who says here that there is a lack of staff,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u116	And there isn't? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u117	... for three or four years he supported this government and supported the State budget with the reduction of employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u118	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u119	Did you or did you not support it? Oh, my God! Now, you want to distance yourself from the government... Let's hope it's not too late, Mrs. Member! For our part, we do not support this government nor when it has allowed the reduction of employees, nor when it allows these delays to continue, and it is not just a question of number of employees, it is also organisation and management.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u120	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u121	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, if we see Mrs Justice's statements, it is clear: at the moment, in social security, there may be a lack of officials, but also a lack of organisation and management, and that is why this government is being absolutely incompetent. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u122	The honourable Member is preparing little for the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u123	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u124	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, fortunately, as it has been mentioned here, we are not in the time when the CDS proposes the cut of 600 million euros per year in paid pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u125	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u126	A CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u127	... nor are we in the time when the CDS... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u128	A CDS? Oh, my God! Are you sure? So tell me where you saw that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u129	Yes, the CDS! I'm sure! Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, there's news at the SOL, you can consult. Nor are we in the time when 70 000 supplements have been cut off for the elderly, which is a fundamental benefit to combat poverty among the elderly, and, fortunately, we are also not in the time when the CDS fired — through Minister Mota Soares, who is behind him — 700 workers of social security, due to the figure of requalification. It is true that we are far from justice all that is due to those who have worked a whole life, but we know that the path that has been made is in the background of the CDS path: instead of cuts, the increase in pensions; instead of disrespect for those who have long contributing careers, the possibility of reforming without penalty. In Braga, in the Marisa Matias campaign, there was a Mr. Carlos Peixoto who came with us and presented his case: he had had 44% penalty in his pension, with the rules of Minister Mota Soares. It was one of the thousands injured by the CDS and Minister Mota Soares! But I wanted to talk to you about a very concrete measure, which has to do with delays in pensions. It is a measure that concerns us and that results from the explosive combination between the possibility of early reforms and the reduction of 40 % of the workers of the National Pension Centre, personnel doing heroic work and which in the period of the Government of the CDS / PSD, has been reduced by 40 %. Dir-CL will-me that in 2016 is that it began to recover.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u130	And how many years are it taking to solve the problem? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u131	This government needs 10 years to solve the problem, because 4 is not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u132	All right, it was in 2016, but until then there was a 40% cut in the staff of the National Pension Centre and now, at the same time, instead of being suspended the possibility of early reforms, there was an increase of tens of thousands of pension requirements, because the rules are more fair and a regime for long contributing careers has been created. But what I wanted to tell you is that we...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u133	You've exceeded the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u134	Mr. President, I am just going to ask the question. We have been discussing this morning a project of the Left Block to complete the competition and extend the territorial reserve; to assign temporary pensions, at the end of three months, to pensioners who are waiting; and to establish stays of social security teams in countries where there is immigration. This is to solve the problem of people and therefore I ask you whether the CDS will follow the Left Block, as it seems the CFP and the Socialist Party will follow in the vote we will make here on Friday on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u135	Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u136	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, if the question you have asked me is to know whether we follow the Left Block, I want to tell you that no, the CDS does not follow the Left Block. The CDS is on the Antipods of the Left Block and, uh...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u137	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u138	... in particular in matters such as those mentioned here — for example, the elderly and the social responses of social security spread by the country — we do not follow the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u139	Cut your pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u140	... in the ongoing doubt that has led to this legislation, for example in relation to the action of private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u141	Are you going to vote against the left block proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u142	We are not like the Left Block, which sees in the IPSS the « business», as they constantly call it, as if the IPSS are not the institutions that are more beside those who need it, especially the elderly. No, sir, we do not follow the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u143	Are you going to vote against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u144	Nor do we follow the Left Block in political hypocrisy, Mr President! We do not follow a party which, during four budgets, supports a government and allows it to implement a policy that represents a reduction in social responses, which represents a forgetfulness in relation to informal caregivers and which represents a delay in pension payments.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u145	You're so wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u146	It is that we do not support a government one day and then we came here to make a speech as if we had nothing to do with that government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u147	At the time of talking to informal caregivers, the Left Block moves, calls them and has legislative initiative, but we well know that when it comes to negotiating a budget with its government — its government! —, leaves informal caregivers at the door,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u148	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u149	... completely forgotten, and pretends to be two different entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u150	What about pensions? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u151	Therefore, Mr President, on our part, on the part of the CDS, you can expect consistent action, determined and recall the reality of those who do not live in the Lisbon media circle, older people, who are waiting for the response of this government and who are absolutely forgotten with the convience of the Left Block, which supports this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u152	What about pensions? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u153	We don't follow the Left Block, we're on the other side. And if it depended on us, surely the elderly side would also be strengthened and have another response from another government. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u154	Mrs. Members, let us move on to a new political statement, to which Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation in public transport, the problems that are being felt every day by the people, users and transport workers demand that the Government finally give concrete answers and stop blocking the application of urgent and indispensable measures that have long been identified in the industry. over the years, we have introduced measures for a fairer, more coherent and integrated tariff system with more affordable prices and without discrimination. We have made a decisive contribution to the progress achieved, with cheaper transport and more comprehensive passes. But at the same time, since the first hour, we have always said and repeated: it is essential to strengthen the response capacity of transport companies, more investment in fleets, infrastructures and maintenance services and the hiring of workers to deal with the demanding staff shortages. In view of the situation that is occurring somewhat throughout the country, the reasons for these alerts remain, are confirmed and accentuated in an obvious and undisputed way. As the CFP has always warned, for the development and promotion of public transport, the extension of the pass and the reduction of prices was only one of the conditions, the other, and fundamental, is the increase in supply in quantity, quality and reliability. And it is urgent and indispensable to do so in two areas: in the short term, with measures that may reduce problems and, in the medium term, with the advance of essential investments, but which will take a few years to be achieved. Unfortunately, the latter governments have limited themselves to multiplying the announcements of medium-term measures, which end up being cancelled and replaced by new announcements. The best example is the purchase of trains, where the last seven contests — seven! — were cancelled before the trains arrived, that is, soon after the election periods, and the National Plan for Rail Traffic Material, proposed by the CFP and approved in this House for a year ago, has never been implemented. In the meantime, there is a need to make decisive progress with public investment in public transport. There are many projects missing or late, from the modernization of the West Line — that we will still talk about today — to the Algarve or Alentejo Line, passing through the Cascais Line, or the expansion of the South Tagus Metro. But from now on, at an immediate point of view, the government has to put an end to the lockdown on the hiring of workers in lack of public transport. About 20 % to 30 % of the CP fleet ( Portugal trains ) is inoperative due to lack of maintenance. The government itself has already admitted more than 100 workers in the EMEF (Train Equipment Maintenance Company) but does not hire them. And the result is in sight, with daily suppressions and trains that do not arrive!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u157	Let the CP users say so on the Sintra Line, but also the Soflusa users, with the ships that are suppressed. There are no workers in all areas — whether in the railway, or indeed in the various companies. This was confirmed in this House by the administration of Transtex and Soflusa. The Minister of the Environment, today in the Parliamentary Committee, said that, and I quote, "the contracts being made correspond to the needs of companies". Before that, he had said that there are four new masters in the Soflusa and there are four masters in prolonged bass. However, nothing answered about the lack of staff in all sectors, or the precariousness of workers in the tips, or the delay of works in the terminals. In 2009 the Lisbon Metropolitan had 52 stations and about 40 km of network, and had 1641 workers. Last December, with more than 4 stations and about 5 km of network, the metropolitan had less than 233 workers. And the Minister says they only hired three people for maintenance, because they didn't find any more technicians in condition! We are clearly faced with a question of political will and political options. For these days, the IP — Infrastructures of Portugal is closing the road maintenance posts in Alfarelos, Nine, Régua and Esmoriz. The IP workers who have so far ensured this function are being invited to terminate contracts by mutual agreement with the payment of compensation. Deep down, the IP is investing in creating more business opportunities for private groups, continuing to ignore GISAF's own alerts (Office for Security Research and Railway Accidents) on the consequences, for security, of this IP policy. And the IP continues to invest in replacing qualified jobs by subcontracting, increasing the actual costs and the risk of the operation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not moving forward, this is moving back!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u159	And it should not be said that it is because of budgetary constraints that the government and the companies in charge are carrying out these policies of restriction, blocking and constraint. On the contrary, what happens is that the Government is not applying the funds, investments and measures to strengthen the public service that have been approved, even if they fall short of the proposals of the CFP, which PS and PSD have rejected. The problem, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not budgetary captivating, it is a government decision!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u161	what the country needs is not submission and follow-up on economic criteria and budgetary surplus, it needs concrete and immediate measures for the serious problems that are placed. over the years, we have been alerting to this reality, presenting solutions and stressing the question of public service as a fundamental factor for development. We welcome the struggle of populations, users and workers in the sector. We reaffirm our solidarity with the denunciation and demand of a concrete response and reaffirm the commitment of the CFP to intervene, work, fight for public transport truly at the service of the people and the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u162	Mr Bruno Dias, four Mrs have signed up. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u163	I shall reply to groups of two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u164	You then have the floor to make the first request for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias, would like to agree with the statement by Mr Exa, regarding the analysis of the state in which public transport services are located, particularly in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. The CDS is concerned, and has always been concerned, with users, their safety, their comfort and the regularity of their service, and always understood that the best way to defend users is to have healthy, well-managed and skilled companies. Whether they are public or private is a second issue, we have no preference. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u166	They don't, no! We got the movie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u167	Now, sir, there's something that matters to say. Our people say that at the first drop everyone, at the second drop whoever wants and the third... you know what I'm talking about. The Portuguese Communist Party is seen as a worker, assertive, coherent and I believe that, in this matter, it is not worth having another fifty-sixth debate and to raise the same arguments. The honourable Member was in the same room where I was with the President of the Soflusa, with the users, with the President of the CP and with the President of EMEF at the beginning of the governance of this government. The President of the Soflusa said—and you have repeated it today— "we do not have enough staff in all sectors of the company; we do not have a public service contract; we have no money to make the company run; the ships go to maintenance, return to the river and fail, because the freightbooks are poorly done". You heard that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u168	Listen! I even asked the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u169	Mr President, why did you then vote in favour of the budget which did not solve any of these problems? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u171	Why, after hearing the President of the EMEF say that EMEF does not have the capacity to respond, which leads to the immobilization of rolling stock, which you are now talking about, did you vote in favour of four budgets where no solutions were planned, Mr President? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u172	Mr. Deputies, you have reached the limit of the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u173	After hearing the users and workers, having approved the PART(Tariff Reduction Support Programme) here — and the CDS considered it a good idea, to the point of voting on the proposal from the CFP, to increase from 80 million to 104 million — what care did the Portuguese Communist Party take to prevent the increase in demand that would exist in a poor sector, either in terms of supply, or in terms of circulating material, or in terms of workers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u174	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u175	Why did you deceive Portuguese people and users by voting in favour of budgets that did not solve the problem? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u176	You have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias is absolutely right: the right to transport, mobility has been sacrificed in Portugal over the past four years. It is true that today there is a total lack of policies aimed at quality public transport, denying a fundamental right to the Portuguese people and with high social, economic, energy and environmental costs. Mr Admits that it was in the last four years that the greatest reduction of operational workers in public enterprises occurred,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u178	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u179	... which led to the deterioration of the reliability of the transport system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u180	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u181	... the irregular frequency and the abolition of tenders. I agree with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u182	You didn't hear that, you brought it from home! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u183	The Socialist Government tries to conceal its responsibilities behind a permanent pamphlet propaganda. During these four years, we have heard about investments of billions of euros, the hiring of hundreds of workers to public companies, new lines, new trains, new buses, new boats, Portugal 2020, Portugal 2030, projects, many, and even some were not even under previous study. Works done? Zero! Not one! We have no more than virtual promises and expectations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u184	Four years of your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u185	How do the people feel? Charges with suppressions; trains falling into pieces; people have to spend the night at the boat terminal, because in the meantime there are no more boats; the Minister of the Environment saying that he had chance; the President of the Transit to appeal to users not to come to work at the point time; removals more than many and hours that continue to be suppressed. Moreover, the new Minister of Infrastructure has already said that if the CP does not have trains it will delete more times. The CFP claims that it is necessary and possible an alternative policy that responds to the problems faced by the people and the country. That's not true, sir! You have contributed, during this term of office,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u187	...to aggravate the situation of the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u188	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u189	...and are responsible for the chaos of public transport!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u190	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u191	The government has done nothing—it is true! — but you supported it! They excuse coming, a few months from the elections, to demarcate themselves from the ruinous positions of this government. It is because of your patriotic and left-wing policy in public transport, as well as the support that you give to this government, that causes chaos in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u192	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u193	So, Mr President, I ask you one question: when will the effort and intervention of the CFP cease to be heavenly music dedicated to misleading the Portuguese and vote against the State budget, which imposes a garrote, through the freezing of public investment and maximum, historically known captivations? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u194	You have the floor to answer, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Hélder Amaral, whom I thank for the matter, spoke in the State budgets and in the situation of not solving the problems. I would like to remind Mr Hélder Amaral, speaking only about this legislation, that the CFP has repeatedly put forward proposals for amendments to the State budget, which were specifically aimed at responding to the specific problems of these companies, in particular the contractual blockades, the maintenance blockades, the need to strengthen funds for the maintenance of ships, but also the fleet of railway rolling stock, and since the first time they voted, during the discussion of the State budget, the CDS voted against and the PSD voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u196	Let's see how I voted!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u197	The CDS abstained and the PS and PS voted against. In the concrete proposals presented by the CFP, in the solutions we have presented to solve the problems of these companies and of these public transport, you have given your hand to the PS and have dropped the proposals of the CFP. So everyone makes the convergences that they do and then people draw their conclusions, don't they, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u198	I did not approve the Budgets, I voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u199	With regard to the issue of concern to users, but now speaking of the previous legislation, I cannot help but remember that you, as soon as you took possession of the previous government, have decreed a reduction, as there is no memory, in the public transport service, with changes in the schedules, beyond what they determined in terms of increasing transport prices and cutting the offer brutally.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u200	And there was this chaos? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u201	It was not now that the largest cut of operational staff, Mr Carlos Silva, the largest cut of operational staff in EMEF occurred during previous governance, in which it passed from more than 1300 to less than 1000 workers in rail maintenance. What is happening, and it is very insufficient, is the stagnation of this hemorrhage, but they are not restoring the levels that existed when you took possession and destroyed and dismantled entire sectors of EMEF. That's why people today don't have trains! It is that the maintenance sector has been dismantled, in a very true way, in the time of your governance. What we have been reporting, we now denounce how we reported in the past. Therefore, there was a better smell, not to say shame in the face, of those who now appear at the feet of the users, very supportive of the struggle, when they sold the catamaran Augusto Gil, because they thought there were more boats in the Soflusa, having today been lack of material in the transport service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u202	In four years, how many have you bought? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u203	People today are faced with two pesos and two measures of whom, with this political hypocrisy, still criticize those who denounce the problems and present concrete solutions and proposals, as is our case. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u204	Vote here in favor and out there protest! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u205	We moved on to the second group of requests for clarification. Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor to this effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u206	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to begin by saying that I share your diagnosis of the problems existing in the transport system at national level, in particular of its malfunction, and that the kind of problems that you are putting are of two orders, which must be separated, because the plans of your debate and resolution are also quite different. First of all, there are the medium- and long-term problems, which relate to the mobility strategy for public transport, not only in the metropolitan areas but also at national level, and which involve substantive measures, such as one of those mentioned, and to which we agree, which is that of the plan to renew and modernise rolling stock at rail level, measure, this, which is, in fact, expressed in one of the chapters of a draft law of the Left Block on a national railway plane, here plunged together by PS, PSD and the CDS. And this plan of renewal and modernization of rolling stock must be linked with what we want for the national rail network in the medium and long term. It is, of course, that 22 trains for regional service are only a palliative because many others would need to solve the problem of poor supply and poor quality of existing supply in terms of rail transport at national level. Therefore, it will be necessary to decide to take many other such measures. Unfortunately, what we see is that this government, from the point of view of public investment, has little in favour of these medium and long-term measures. Secondly, there are the other measures referred to by the honourable Member, which are those of the short term.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u207	You've finished the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u208	I'm done now, Mr. President. On these measures, I would like to ask a very specific question. The Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction has earned a lot of applause from several people, especially those who reside in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, but has also deserved a lot of criticism from many people who, living outside the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, move there to work, to study or simply to solve problems in their lives. What I am asking, Mr President, is if you do not think that the Government should immediately review, as soon as possible, the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport, so that these people are not excluded. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u209	Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u210	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, first of all, I would like to congratulate the honourable Member, as well as the CFP, for bringing such a relevant subject for discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Bruno Dias, the PSD and the CDS, who both talked about State Budget, voted against perhaps the biggest revolution that took place in Portugal with regard to urban transport...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u211	That's not true! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u212	... and that essentially aimed at a drastic reduction in the price of social passes. On the other hand, the PSD and the CDS are responsible for the greatest fall in investment, but also for hiring, as you mentioned, in public transport in the previous legislation. In fact, if we look at what is the evolution of investment in public transport, this government will invest four times as much as the previous government has invested in public transport. So the first comment that seems natural to me to make is that he asks questions from those we hear not who should but who can. That is, the PSD and the CDS have no legitimacy to ask questions about public investment in public transport or public subcontracting, when you were responsible for the biggest fall in public investment in public transport and for the greatest drop in the hiring of people for public companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u213	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u214	This is a first note. The second note, Mr Bruno Dias, is to say that we also accompany concerns about public transport. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is also concerned about these issues and the Government has made a great and significant effort — and I think Mr Bruno Dias agrees with that, moreover, they also contribute to this, as they have contributed to the question of reducing the price of passes — in order to overcome certain matters. Of course, all that has already been done, since the buses that are being acquired, to the competitions that are being launched for the new cars of the CP, especially for the regional CP—it is good to remember that since 2000 there has been no such competition and it will be assumed—to the question of the carriages to the metro of Lisbon,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u215	Carriage to the metro in Lisbon? Oh, my God! Stop making it up!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u216	... on the question of new ships, it is all investments that are being implemented and that will obviously bear fruit quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u217	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u218	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Bruno Dias a specific question: in spite of the difficulties we recognize, despite the impetus we have to continue to give to this matter of public transport, is it not true that we are at a different moment from the one we were in the past on this matter of public transport? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u219	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u220	Mr President, Mr Heitor de Sousa, on the question which you have put to us, and which I thank you, has distinguished two plans, as in the intervention of the CFP we have sought to put the questions in these two plans to which we need to answer, namely: the plan of the medium and long-term problems which now begin to be realized and advanced—...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u221	Tell stories to each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u222	... and there is our concern, because there are serious and worrying delays in structural measures and infrastructures, circulating material, finally, various and important investments for our country, and from there also the underlined one that we make; and the other plan, now, the urgent and immediate problems that need to be answered, namely the question that you have mentioned, and that we have still this morning put to Mr. Environment Minister, on the displacements of people from other regions to the metropolitan areas, in which the Minister and the Government responds, to refer to the CIM(inter-municipal communities) and to the metropolitan areas, saying "you understand, you talk to each other and decide how you do", can, as it is proving to be, stay very short of need, and that is the alert we have made. For example, not only the link from the north of Lisbon to the AML (the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon ) but also the connection from Troy to Setúbal, through the Trojan Ferries, a concession to privates that has been disastrous to the populations and which, in this measure, is also raising difficulties, are issues that have been discussed little. With regard to the situations which Mr Pereira has appreciated, such as the Programme for Support for Tariff Reduction, and also implicitly the intervention and proposal of the CFP in this area, what needs to be taken into account is that not only the situations of failure to respond to the transport system, which have already come from behind, in particular with the dismantling that has been operated over the years, but also this new demand, which is induced by fairer and more attractive prices, by more choice of use of public transport than the passes have provided to the people, which make it even necessary to give them a different capacity to respond to businesses. So the question I leave here is this: why does the government continue to prevent the hiring of workers, who are missing for Soflusa and Transtejo, for metropolitans, for CP and for EMEF? And this isn't a public competition problem here I don't know how many years, it's for now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We need them now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u223	Two years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u224	People need transport, but they have to stay there to see ships that do not circulate because of lack of workers and a system that can work, but does not work, because the government does not allow companies to hire the necessary and urgent workers. Now this is an issue that we cannot but underline, alerting us to an urgent and indispensable problem that needs to be answered by the Government. And it is in this sense that we warn: we are in a position to allow and provide a more adequate response...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u225	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, we are in a position as a country to allow and provide a more adequate response to people's needs, but this is not happening because of economic criteria that the government insists on imposing, and that is unacceptable. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u227	For a political declaration, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The non-investment by successive governments in vessels to ensure the river transport of passengers in the Tejo, in connection with the southern margin to Lisbon, has promoted the degradation of this public service. In fact, if new ships are not bought and if they are disinvested in the maintenance of ships in circulation, which, the more years they spend, the more failures they are experiencing, it is not possible to guarantee the necessary transport. And what has been verified was a recurrent and progressive failure, until it becomes constant, of scheduled times, with enormous damage to the populations. In addition to this problem, there is a lack of staff, allowing regular working hours to provide the regular service, including teachers, machinists and sailors, which form the navigation team necessary for the movement of ships. It is not possible to ensure normal service, for example by requiring teachers to do, in a year, as happened last year, a total of extraordinary hours that arrived at about 4000 hours, leading these workers to a situation of exhaustion, which, in addition to their painful personal situation, may interfere with the necessary safeguard of passenger safety, as it is easy to understand. What happens is that the constant elimination of schedules generates inevitable and daily delays for people who study or work in Lisbon, even those who have already been confronted with the possibility of losing their jobs if they continue to do so. in these circumstances, people have to resort to the alternative of transport, in particular to the buses of TST (Transportes Sul do Tejo ), which do not abound either, and making the journey much more time consuming. Other people choose to take their individual car to Lisbon, with very heavy costs for the family budget and with very significant environmental costs for society. This is, in short, the story of the daily life of the thousands of users of the Soflusa. The Greens Ecological Party has already confronted the Minister of the Environment here in this plenary. The Minister's reply was summed up to say that it is the fault of the teachers who strike extraordinary hours, which led the Greens Ecological Party to twist that either the Minister sits well on the ground, or the problem is not solved! From the outset, regular service cannot be required through extraordinary hours. Therefore, the need to hire people is an imperative! After much pressure, the Government announced this month that six more sailors will be hired during the year 2019. That contract should have already been made so that this situation could not be achieved. However, contrary to what the government wants to believe, there have already been days when no strike was marked and a very significant number of careers in the Barreiro-Lisboa and Lisbon-Barreiro link has been removed, as has happened, for example, in the same month of May. The problem of lack of repair of ships is a very serious issue. This aspect, as well as that of boarding and landing and support facilities, is very neglected. Everything has been forgotten and everything has been degraded, due to lack of maintenance. This is the problem of the lack of public investment: it generates the inability to respond and the inoperability of public services. The Government has already announced the launch of the public tender for the purchase of 10 new catamarans for the reinforcement of the fleet of Soflus and Transtejo, but the first will only circulate from 2020. Until then, how will the passengers be kept? Recourse solutions must be used, which may, inter alia, go through the repair of at least three or four vessels lying at the Lisnave dock and which could be recovered. As I said earlier, this deficit in passenger river transport has led many people to choose to use the individual car in their pendulum movements. This push of collective transport users for individual transport is completely countercyclical with the aim of decarbonisation and combating climate change, for which the transport sector is making a significant contribution. The Greens Ecological Party has worked hard, as it will be fair to recognise, for more and better public transport, with a view to pursuing objectives set for climate change mitigation, for the formation of more sustainable urban areas, for the break-up of peripheral and inland areas and also to ensuring the right to mobility of populations. We have worked throughout the legislature, for example, to reverse the trend of successive railway closure and de-investment governments in rolling stock, and also in a decisive way to mobilise citizens for the use of public transport: the reduction of the price of passes. By budgeting the State in State budget, we have succeeded in reducing the total VAT of social passes within IRS, the end of the resources condition of pass 4 /NP 18 and pass sub23, and we have always claimed the single pass at affordable prices, which they have always told us, for years and years, that it was impossible to carry out, but that, after all, proved that it was even possible. What the Green Party considers is that it is even with concrete, timely and effective measures and investments that the transport sector may correspond to the design of climate change mitigation. Many symbolic measures may be proposed for climate matters, but nothing will be more effective than the implementation of the multiple concrete measures, which together will generate the results that are important. It is for this thorough work that the Greens Ecological Party will continue to contribute. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us once again alert ourselves to the situation in which the Tejo river transport is located and to the purpose of 'hiding the garbage under the carpet'. The Green Party points to solutions. the Ministry of the Environment is required to be aware of the reality and to assume the responsibilities it has to assume. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u229	The Bureau is taking note of registrations for requests for clarification. I would like to ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who want to sign up to do the favor of not doing so to the retarder. [[Pause.]] The Bureau shall record three entries for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u230	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u231	All right. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u232	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we would like to commend the Greens for bringing this important issue, which is of the greatest urgency. It was also because we considered that this issue is important for us to start an urgent debate for next Friday to discuss the government. We want the government here to be able to respond, not only to Parliament but also to the people on the south bank, to the suppression of careers and problems in the Transtejo and Soflusa, which have so much harmed that population. We have no doubt about how we got here. We know that the PSD government and the CDS felt that any ship on the Transtejo was more ship and that any worker on the Transtejo was one more worker on the public perimeter of the State. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] They had a plan to de-invest and destroy Transtejo and Soflusa for the privatisation of the company. That is why they did not allow anyone to hire and—see yourself alone! — not only left half of the fleet of the inoperative transit as they sold ships. They sold ships! All the ships that the Transtejo had were the most. [[PSD protests.]] Having arrived at the end of the Legislature, we know that this government also delayed in relation to the problem and, as such, there were 20 passengers who had to sleep at the terminal of the Paço Land, because there was the removal of the last career of the Barreiro to Lisbon. by saying that these suppressions are due to occupational disorders or constraints is an attempt by the company to deceive passengers and to place them against workers of Transtejo and Soflusa. There was no strike marked for Monday last when dozens of crossings were removed Barreiro-Lisboa and Lisboa-Barreiro, many of them at peak time. The 6h 45min, 7h 10min, 7h 35min, 8h and 8h 25min were deleted, all at peak time. We already knew that the new step of the passes would bring—and still well! — many new passengers for public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u233	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u234	I'm done now, Mr. President. António Costa, Prime Minister, promised that this would correspond to a reinforcement of the public transport response, but what we see is exactly the opposite. What I would like to ask you is whether the Greens have noticed that there has been some reinforcement of some public transport on the south bank and, in particular, whether the announcement now made by the Government in relation to Soflua is sufficient for the hiring of four masters and six sailors. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u235	With the approval of the Bureau, an inscription was also accepted to request clarification from a PSD Member. I therefore ask Mrs Heloísa Apolónia whether the decision to answer together is still being taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u236	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u237	So you have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr. Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we agree with the importance of the public transport service to combat climate change and to improve mobility and the transport system in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and the whole country, so that we have clear environmental gains, in a concern that we all have with the climate. I will not ask you, now, to tell me why you voted in favour of all the budgets,... [[PS protests.]] ... nor will I ask you to do my fault and acknowledge the incompetence of your government, as Mrs Joana Mortagua has now acknowledged, when asking you whether you have realized any reinforcement or hiring. the visas did not give, but still voted in favour of the budgets, even with all the degradation that public services represent.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u239	The question is on the contrary: why did the CDS vote against?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u240	Mr President, I shall reply to you, because I agree with the honourable Member that concrete measures are needed. The honourable Member is very strange to use the argument she uses in the harsh criticisms of the lack of workers, the lack of rolling stock, the quality of ships, the management of companies. Today we are discussing a draft resolution in which the Greens refer to the settlement of the supply of public transport, the compulsory collection imposed by the government — by this government, because the criticisms to the previous government were not these! It makes these criticisms to this government, a government that supports and whose budgets it approves. I wonder why at least it was not selective in voting. Look, with the consistency the CDS did! contrary to what Mr Pereira said — lying, not because of him, but because of the Minister — in Article 178. that of the PS proposal, the article on the programme to support tariff reduction in public transport, the CDS abstained. You know why? To vote in favour of the proposal from the CFP, which increased from 80 million to 104 million euros! To give more money to the PART(Public Transportation Tariff Reduction Support Programme) and to improve it. It is therefore possible to vote against the budget, but one must vote in favour of what are concrete measures and what is the defence of public service. You didn't even do that! I repeat: you didn't even do that. Mrs Deputy, you have declared war on public transport users. You have liquidated public transport services companies and are responsible for the degradation of Soflusa, CP, EMEF.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u241	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u242	I'm done now, Mr. President. I don't know how you guys, instead of having come to do this sad show, don't apologize to those people who, just this month, went through 40 suppressions in the Soflusa and 57 trains in the Sintra line. Do you not apologize to the users who need to wake up at 6 a.m. to come to work, to fulfill their commitments, to pay their bills, to come to study and who, because of you and the Socialist Party, do they not have quality in the public transport service? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u243	The honourable Member had promised to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u244	Are you not able to have a word that is of comfort and support to these users? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u245	And you're not ashamed of your face? Don't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u246	To request clarification, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unlike the sad show we have seen here in some matters, where it seems more important that a particular bench or tribe is right and where public transport users are used as weapons of political attack, no one denies that there is a problem in the Transtex / Soflusa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u248	That's not what I heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u249	No one can look into the eyes of a Portuguese and do as the CDS did today or as Mr. Bruno Vitorino of the PSD will do, looking to the end to be able to tell a story that does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u250	You don't keep it to the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u251	No one denies that there were problems when we took possession and did not cease to be ironic and it is interesting to note that it has just been Mrs Heloísa Apollonia to emphasize the measures that this Government has taken. That is how he referred to the EUR 50 million that we will invest in 10 new vessels, that is how he referred to the EUR 37 million in maintenance, that is how he referred to the hiring of the six sailors and the four masters.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u253	That is why I tell you, Mrs Deputies, that we need to pay very much attention to the trap that the right is pushing us, because what the left has defended on the left cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u255	And, attention, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all called upon to resist, because the PART, the revolution we are achieving, is not without difficulties. And we know the history of these gentlemen of the former government! We know what has been done in terms of public transport and we know the challenge of maintaining this important measure today and in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Allow me to say, sirs. Members, that social peace in a company is not just a matter of importance. In fact, you have destroyed social peace in the Transtejo / Soflusa, because you had an intention, which appears to be obvious today—and I ask, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, if you do not agree with us—that it was to be ready for them to privatize. That is the only way they understand that they have sold a ship that is needed and that the right has considered it to be surplus. Let us repeat to all the users that we have heard: they have sold a boat that they considered surplus, but today they present themselves to "rend the clothes" and to say that, after all, the much we are doing compared to the little they have done is not enough! [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Madam Member, all workers' claims are fair, but we know that we cannot give everything to everyone at the same time. The honourable Member knows that, in addition to the master's strike, there is already a set of previous warnings that, on the day...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u256	It's the strike's fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u257	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u258	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we do not have the allergy to the strike that Mr. Paulo Portas and Mr. Passos Coelho had. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, I'm done, just saying the following... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u259	Mr President, you would like to suspend your speech. I have an idea of giving Mr. André Pinotes Batista the floor, and only him for now. You would like to continue, Mr President, to complete your request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u260	Mr President, to conclude, I would like to say that the nervousness of this right is evident. I don't know if it has to do with the European elections. Let's hope it has something else to do with anything else. It certainly won't be that. [[PSD and CDS-PP Protests and PS Counter-Protests.]] Madam Member, the concrete question that I want to leave you, and that, as you have already noticed, the right does not want you to hear, is the following: are you aware that there is already a set of strike notifications from other unions? Shouldn't we be careful? Madam Member, we cannot give everyone everything at the same time, we must pay attention to this. [[Rice from PSD member Carlos Silva.]] And look at the reaction we have on the right. Portugal must prevent these things from coming back,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u261	Mr. Deputies, you must conclude now.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u262	... because having these gentlemen in driving our public transport is having them to destroy public transport in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u263	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the issue of the chaos in the Transtejo / Soflusa is indeed relevant, but allow me a previous note. It is no less curious to be the Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party to bring this matter to plenary, when the Soflus is a public company and it is the State Budget that approves the budget for the Soflus. It is the State budget, approved by the CFP and the Greens, which approved Budgets for four years, which gives the means that the company has, or, better, does not have. Your political bipolarity is still curious: one day they are negotiating and approving the Budget; the next day, closer to the elections, they are criticizing the budget they have just approved. Don't stop being curious. Nor does it fail to be curious to say that "we have tabled proposals for amendments to the budget and you, the bad ones of the tape, have not approved them". Look, you approve the Budget, your proposals are not accepted by your management partners, you vote on the Budget in it and it is the fault of others, who have nothing to do with it and who abstain! Is that what you're talking about? It's impressive where your hypocrisy comes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u265	They have nothing to do with that, point and comma!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u266	But the most important of this is, in fact, people and respect for people. I am referring to the suppressions, delays, no schedules, tourniquets that close with half-empty boats, people who want to go to work and cannot, people who want to get to work on time and do not know what time they will be able to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u267	And the PSD has nothing to do with that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u268	They're serious people, they're working people, they're honest people, they just want to study or work, but they don't know what time they get there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u269	The PSD never had anything to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u270	Mr. Pinotes Batista, some of them have already fallen asleep at the station,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u271	The PSD never had anything to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u272	...what should leave the honourable Member full of shame in his face and not come here with that kind of conversation. The worst thing is that the only party and the only people who can solve the problem, the Prime Minister, the Socialist Party and the Minister of the Environment, put their heads on the sand, say that right now, the problem of suppression is only when there are strikes, when all users know that it is not.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u273	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u274	This is a daily martyrdom and the only ones who can solve the problem continue to deny it. Looks like the important thing is to say someone's fault and fuck people!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u275	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u276	I conclude now, Mr President. Since one can blame the Rabbit Steps until half of the mandate and, from a certain time, the masters of the Soflusa or the rest of the workers, it seems that everything is all right and that people have no importance at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u278	Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, respect the users, respect the people who use the Soflusa daily. Have respect for the people! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u279	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. I would like to begin by replying to Mr Hélder Amaral and Mr Bruno Vitorino, asking them for a little political and serious honesty in what they say.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u281	It's too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u282	Because it's too much, actually. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members realize that this comes from the past and that you have had a huge responsibility to get this to where it comes from. In fact, see us until we complain and denounce the question at the time when they were government. Or don't you remember? [[PCP applause.]] They used to make moose ears at that time, of course. You may remember how one of the fundamental ships transferred to this river transport and fundamental to transport the users in condition and to meet the timetables. Do you remember that they had a plan for the alienation of more ships? Why? Why were they more? Why didn't you need the users? [[PSD protests.]] I was doing it! After all, they did! Do they also remember that they did not allow the hiring of staff? Or you don't remember either, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PSD and CDS-PP MP Hélder Amaral protests.]] The memory, by the way, is too short! The fact that Mr. Members do not want to take on the direct responsibilities they have had to reach this situation too much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's too much! [[PSD protests.]] We're not gonna be alone in the past. Let's move on to this legislature. For this legislation, concrete proposals were made at the level of the State budget, namely a reinforcement of EUR 5, EUR 25 million for the maintenance of Soflusa and Transtejo, to unlock staff recruitment and to invest in maintenance. What was the response of the PSD and CDS? Do not vote in favour of the proposal. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at least they must be consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u283	Political hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u284	It's just that reason can't be left alone in speeches. It is also in the attitude, in particular in the sense of voting in relation to the proposals presented here and also in relation to the authorship of the proposals put forward. Mr André Pinotes Batista, I would like to say the following: one of the major problems that has been revealed by the PS and the PS government is that it is always going after the damage. What do I mean by this? That he doesn't act in time. Faced with the problems, let him drag, drag, drag, see if he can not spend money and not act and then only when the situation is really dramatic is he decides to make some decision. It was like this, for example, with the Tagus. With Tejo's pollution, that's exactly what happened. Didn't you want me to say what the government announced? It's not weird! We are very serious and loyal in the way we approach things. I have no strict problem with that, as is clear. [[PSD and CDS-PP deputy Hélder Amaral.]] But 'afternoon', Member? Oh, my God! And then things come to this. But I also want to tell you one thing: don't close your eyes! Are you aware that even when there are no strikes there is a time suppression?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u285	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u286	So, if you have that conscience, you can't say what you said! Do not try to put the trash under the carpet, Mr. The reality must be taken into account so that solutions can, in fact, be adapted to that reality so that problems can be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u287	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u288	I'm done, Mr. President. Mrs Joana Mortágua, we have always considered and said that the issue of price passes was fundamental to mobilizing people for collective transport, but the strengthening of the response was also an absolutely necessary measure. Therefore, we will continue to demand this strengthening of response, which, of course, is not being done to the necessary extent. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u289	For a new political statement, Mrs Rubina Berardo from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u290	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday, the Heads of State and Government of the European Union met to launch the official discussions on the leadership of the Union's institutional power. The aim of these negotiations on the institutional architecture of the Union can only be one: to ensure stability and vision for the future of Europe. This objective must be shared by all, because we are at a critical time when the Union's agenda is imperative. The watch pointers are moving fast and require European leaders to feel a sense of state, vision and ambition. Consultations are now initiated by the President of the European Council with the European Parliament, with the members of the European Council, on the next President of the European Commission, the next President of the European Council, the next High Representative for Foreign Policy and also the next President of the European Central Bank, drawing attention to the fact that the latter is always independent of political power. There is a global motivation for the final decision on names to be presented at the European summit on 20 and 21 June. Until then, in this process of consultations and negotiations, the current President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, promises openness and transparency as far as possible. It is never too much to emphasise this need for transparency, since opacity is a barrier to European democracy, so well and sadly identified by millions of European citizens. It is in this context that the PSD supported the Spitzenkandidadeten process for the choice of the next President of the European Commission, as in 2014 for transparency. Members, and by strengthening the Union's political legitimacy, by electing the first list at European level. It is, however, appropriate to remember and attribute righteous paternity. This was, after all, a model designed by a socialist: Martin Schulz. Sadly, Portugal was part of the group that, already last year, raised doubts about the need to respect this innovative process of 2014. No one questions what is said in the Treaty of Lisbon: the European Council proposes, the European Parliament elects. It is therefore essential to support both a qualified majority in the Council and a majority in the European Parliament. Of course, in a more fragmented European Parliament this task becomes even more difficult to achieve, but it is regrettable to have put pressure on the withdrawal before the start-up of this Spitzenkandidadeten process. Mrs. Members, ladies and gentlemen, at this delicate moment for the future of Europe, negotiations around European functions cannot be summed up in a chair war. Everyone has to get out of the trenches. I repeat, in this house, everyone has to get out of their trenches. Therefore, the PSD today makes an appeal, an appeal to the Portuguese Government, to Dr. António Costa, who participates in the negotiations because he is head of government, not only because he belongs to the socialist family. [[PSD applause.]] As such, it must have national interest in how these negotiations are conducted in the first place. That is our appeal, because Dr. António Costa yesterday said that names, only profiles, were not discussed for top positions, but at the same time gave a very strange interview in which he referred to exactly names, doing what the international commentators called « ad umum attack » to the PPE ( European People's Party ). That is, there is no consistency between these two statements. The negotiating perspective of the Portuguese Government on the profiles to lead the Union's destinations, in its various institutions and functions at the top, must be guided by the importance given to the following matters, and this is the specification of charges which Dr. António Costa, head of the Portuguese Government, leads to these negotiations: firstly, the next multiannual financial framework. We want top leaders to be champions of cohesion policy; to fight regional asymmetries in Europe... [[PS protests.]] Listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. As I was saying, we want top leaders to oppose the cuts planned for the cohesion policy for Portugal, which is expected in the order of 7 % ; who perceive the nature of the application of funds of the common agricultural policy in Portugal, where we cannot readily accept cuts in 2. the pillar for rural development; which defend a dynamic common fisheries policy for the maritime sector; that it does not focus on the prosperity of the European centre, but looks at the most distant regions, on the continent and, in particular, on the outermost regions, essential to give the European Union a global and maritime dimension ; that it gives them mechanisms to ensure its development, such as by derogations and regimes such as the International Centre for Madeira Affairs. In terms of the Union's foreign policy, we want a Union which does not hesitate to defend democracy at international level, which does not hesitate in grayism, which, for example, follows the courageous example of the European Parliament at the time of its early recognition of Juan Guaidó as interim President of Venezuela ; that they solidify the Union at the level of international relations, as a driving force of multilateralism in a world where isolationism grows; that they contribute proactively to the European response to the climate urgency that afflicts our planet; and that they know how to defend the interests of citizens at the conclusion of the Brexit process, whatever their outcome. That, and only that, must be the primary interest of the Portuguese Government and that is what matters. It's not the party accounts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is not only the sensibilities of the European party families, nor even Mr. Members, whether or not to export the model of management, the model which the Portuguese Government's own head, Dr. António Costa, has already actively begun to discard away from you, and which is precisely the opposite of the alliance which he thinks possible in the European Parliament, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. If you insist on these purely partisan goals, then the Socialist Government will only be giving reason to 69, 27 % of Portuguese abstentionists in these last European elections in Portugal E, more so: at the same time, it would mean denying the statement of the President of the Republic, when he said that two thirds of Portuguese are pro-Europeanists, referring to the whole of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, the Alliance and the Liberal Initiative. That is the mandate that the head of the Portuguese Government carries for these negotiations that began yesterday, so central to the future of Europe, so essential to the Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u291	For clarifications, Mrs Margarida Marques of the PS was registered. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u292	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Rubina Berardo for bringing this issue to plenary, underlining an issue which she said and which I think must be stressed, which is the fact that these European elections are starting a new institutional cycle. It is good to remember that because this is actually part of the future life of the European Union. That is why I endorse what Mrs Rubina Berardo has said that this is not a chair war, and that is actually about discussing the future of the European Union. The Treaties of the European Union say exactly that the President of the European Commission must respect the results of the European elections. At the moment no one says that it has to be the Spitzenkandidad of the most voted party. Respecting election results means building a majority in a parliament, as has happened in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It is therefore to build a majority in parliament the exercise that must be done at this time. It is certainly Mrs Rubina Berardo — and this is the question I put to her — that it is not with enthusiasm that the Portuguese Government could support Mr Manfred Weber, who does not have a majority in Parliament, and does not seek an alternative. It is that, as the honourable Member says, and very well, we want leaders who stand up for a robust multi-annual financial framework. But we also want leaders who advocate the completion of economic and monetary union.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u293	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u294	But about that, not a word in Mr. Manfred Weber's manifesto. My question is whether, in view of this reality, Portugal had the expectation that under some circumstances Portugal could support the candidate Manfred Weber in the European Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u295	In reply, Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u296	Mr President, first of all, democratic politeness calls for me to 'beautify' Mrs Margarida Marques for her election to the European Parliament, hoping that it will be a mandate also in the national interest, in which her new political cycle will be. Mr Deputy, right at the beginning of her political statement, spoke precisely about the question of being fundamental a new cycle. Indeed, we have heard this in the statements by the Portuguese Government chief, Dr. António Costa, when he said that the most important of this was to remove the EPP. We have noted that, apparently, the declarations that are made for domestic consumption, the most important in these negotiations is the change in change rather than the guarantee of stability. The way this completely kills the Spitzenkandidadeten process is actually a great knife in his comrade Martin Schulz. It is a great pity, but from the moment you lost its influence, after the German elections, the socialist family has already ruled out it, for something we believe to be a good idea, precisely in order to bring the voters of the European institutions closer together and there is a greater bond, Mrs Deputy. With regard to Mr Spitzenkandidid of the PPE, it might have been good to say that according to the election results, the Socialists' Spitzenkandidid does not collect a majority either.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u297	Of course, that's why there must be negotiations!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u298	So the truth is that we have to deal with a fragmented European Parliament. That is why I appeal precisely to « get out of the trenches», but to that end we all need to « dance the tango», not only the PPE, but also the Socialist Party and its socialist family. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u299	To give a political statement, Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Sunday, there were several victories we could celebrate. The first was that of democracy, which all those who voted have the right to celebrate. I leave a very special greeting to those who were born in 2000 and voted for the first time—that being the first of many more is my wish. He had also taken the tears by abstention not to be "of crocodile" crying, even by whom he is complicit in the tragedy, and they represent, yes, the will to fight. The second victory was that of the European Union. Despite everything we know, of the rights threatened, of the walls desired, of the retreat in so many values that we judged internalized and so many other difficulties, despite this, the project of a democratic European Union continues to gather the support of the majority of the political forces that have supported it, in its good days and in its bad days. Well, he'll need it! The third victory I want to point out here today was that of the Socialist Party, which clearly won and without any doubt these elections,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in 17 of the 18 districts of the continent and in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Thank you to all those who have given us their trust! For us socialists, this was a victory of those who understand politics as a fight for ideas and proposals and not as a dirty attack on opponents and their personal dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a victory of those who have a shared culture and not just lists and think that women have the same rights as men, their careers, their lives, their projects. They're not wives, they're citizens! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] It was a victory for those who dare to aspire to a more solidarity European Union for those suffering from humanitarian crises, so that the Mediterranean Sea is not a cemetery, so that in Africa the hope of a better life is not a privilege of so few. It was a victory for those who know that the future of the planet must now be assured, with an urgent sense of urgency, which requires a more ambitious transversal effort of all and all the protagonists, from our home to the Union and the Union for the world, in the fight against climate change. It was a victory of those who think that the European Union needs to be more innovative, ensuring that science and technology are used for the common good and not to dig inequalities between those who profit greatly and do not pay taxes and those who feel left behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a victory for those who argue that there are too complex rules and procedures in the European Union and disproportionate administrative costs that need to be eliminated. It was a victory for people of all generations, for education, for quality and stable employment, for housing, for justice in remuneration, for pension stability, for care for older people. For us socialists, this was a victory of those who dared to seek new solutions and did not conform pragmatically, as I heard during the campaign, with sanctions. We socialists have often said in this campaign that we wanted to do in the European Union what we did well in Portugal, returning income and keeping the record right. Other parties asked the opposite and even asked the Government to see a « red card ». On Sunday, whoever voted gave the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u301	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u302	For the Socialist Party, who fought for democracy before and after April 1974, who always fought for the European Union, before and after accession for more than 30 years, who won these elections, asking for more social and environmental commitment to the Union and defending the reform of the euro, this was thus a triple victory celebrated. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, citizens and citizens who are following us: All and all who have done this campaign know how difficult it has been to explain the importance of the European Union, as it seems distant and, after all, it is here so close to the schools we attend, in our research that we do, in our individual and collective safety or even closer, in this very essential thing that we drink water and that we no longer come into disposable plastic. [[At this moment, the speaker raised a glass of water.]] In 25 years we invested EUR 10 billion in water and sanitation, more than half with Community funds, and increased from 50 % of safe water in the tap to 98, 9 % and 65 blue flags to 352. Let this be kept in mind: without the European Union, we would certainly be Portugal in the same,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u303	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u304	... but we wouldn't be the same Portugal today. Thanks to everyone and everyone who's cost so much here! [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u305	Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, the registrations for requests for clarification will reach the check-out, but I believe they have already come to an end. The Bureau therefore records four entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u306	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u307	First of all, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, allow me to congratulate her and, in her person, also the Socialist Party, on the outcome of last Sunday's elections and, in particular, on her election. I believe that, in the days ahead, even though it is very interesting to watch the European Commission's iron throne dispute, it is more interesting to evaluate the structural political choices and that they are indeed strategic for European construction. From this point of view, the Socialist Party has announced in recent weeks a project for the European Union which somehow surprised those who have witnessed what has happened in Portugal in the last four years. Having even Mrs Deputies' experience of government and therefore knowing the means of the various pressures that have been made on Portugal and of the choices at the expense of the European Commission, I should like to say that the most obvious question to the Socialist Party is this: what illusions take away from the results, at European level, of their choice of the progressive front? It was indicated that this front would exist to cope with the growth of the extreme right and to stagnate it and therefore the PS decided to hand over to the European Liberals and, first of all, Emmanuel Macron. I ask you whether the result of the action of these liberals, in particular Emmanuel Macron, in this attempt to halt the progress of the extreme right, serves to reassure the Socialist Party. It is that if we look at France, we realize that it was not the Liberals who stagnated the extreme right, if we look at the rest of Europe, we see that it was not the Liberals who stagnated the advance of the extreme right and we conclude that it was not the liberal or austerity policies that stagnated the advance of the extreme right. It is in cases where we break with these policies that we do not see extreme right, as happens in Portugal. So the question I ask you is whether the conclusion they have drawn is that they have actually been deceived — it happens! -,... [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u309	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u310	... and recognize that the choice made in Portugal is decisive to stagnate the extreme right or will continue to believe that it is in liberal politics that have this exit. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u311	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u312	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, in her speech, referred to what she considered to have been three victories. Of course, I congratulate the Socialist Party, through itself, on the outcome it has obtained, and I congratulate you and Mrs Margarida Marques, who is still speaking, and Isabel Santos, Members who join this House, for the election to the European Parliament. Regarding other victories, he referred to the victory of democracy and the victory of the European Union. Of course, free elections are always a victory for democracy, a democratic demonstration, but we cannot help but be concerned when we see that there is still so many of our citizens who are outside the electoral process. We know that citizens feel little of the importance of the European Union, and indeed the elections for the European Parliament usually have rates of influx to the polls far lower than the other elections, particularly to the Assembly of the Republic, to the Presidency of the Republic or even to the local authorities. We know this, but we cannot conform and we must all work to combat the alienation of a very large number of citizens, especially when this alienation can express some repudiation for political life and be an emanation from an environment, which I would also say mediatic, of contestation of political life, of widespread accusations of political activity, in fact, an environment that is not exclusive to Portugal but also manifests itself in our country and which cannot fail to deserve our concern. With regard to what you consider to be the victory of the European Union, I believe that I cannot share your consideration because, in fact, we can all welcome the fact that perhaps...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u313	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u314	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, it is clear that we all welcome the fact that the extreme right did not have the expression that some prophesied, but nevertheless has a worrying expression in some countries of the European Union. What leads us to consider that there is no victory in the European Union is whether it is satisfied with itself, if the major parties with expression in the European Union, particularly the Socialists and the parties that join the PPE (the European People's Party ), believe that maintaining the same line of direction, which is increasingly moving the citizens of the European Union away from the European Union and throwing more and more people into the hands of the extreme right is a way of fighting, are very wrong. That is why we cannot consider that there has been a victory for the European Union and for that which has been its course. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u315	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u316	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your congratulations. Members with regard to me and my fellow Members who have been elected and, of course, the questions they have asked me. First of all, with regard to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block, I would like to say that what the Socialist Party and its Secretary-General have said was that in Europe they would seek to secure a majority because, of course, there is nothing we can do alone, we do not have enough Members to do so, which, in turn, would guarantee some of the essential values we have defended in our commitment. And it was not only President Macron who sent us a message, but also Syriza did it through Alex Tsipras. Of course, this majority can and should include other forces, particularly some that have seen its influence grow, and well, in terms of protecting and combating climate change. It is just a matter of providing some flexibility, which is important to have, as has been shown here in Portugal, to find in the European Union the geometry and the possible balance that ensures the essentials. That is not done, Mr President, without commitments. I don't know how else to do it. Mr António Filipe, he had only six minutes to give my political statement, otherwise he would have spent more time on the topic of combating abstention. I must say that abstention is something that concerns me very much, such as the difficulty we have, whatever our political project, to show our citizens the importance of having voted last Sunday. In the election campaign, I often said « vote in whoever you want, but vote; do not let others decide for themselves», but it is seen that the result is not the one that lets us rest. I believe that all of us, on the right and on the left—not only those who have been elected, who have an added responsibility—but all of us, Members of the Republic, and all of us, citizens and citizens, committed to political life on many sides and in many ways, have responsibility for this fight for the strengthening of democracy. I like participatory democracy very much, I even organised a participatory budget at national level, but the truth is that voting is the most inclusive form of democracy, even when there is a lot of abstention; that is where more people mobilize themselves for a choice of their representatives. So we have to do this fight, we have to try, we have to motivate, we have to improve education for citizenship, we have to be more creative, we have to do not only here five years, in the case of European elections, but from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u317	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u318	If we all think a little bit, we find that we talk little about Europe before campaigns for European elections, we talk only every five years and we talk very little about these time intervals, including our media.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u319	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u320	It is obviously worrying, as I also stressed, the manifestations of extreme right and even the rise of its expression in the European Union Parliament. On the part of the Socialist Party, both in its commitment and in its campaign, we were clear about our ambition. We are not pragmatic, we are bold and ambitious for another Europe, more social and with more environmental concerns, as we have also been during these three and a half years in our relations with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u321	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group also spoke for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u322	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, basically on the third day, Mrs Deputy came to make a victory speech by the Socialist Party, which is factual! And, having made this speech of victory, here they will democratically go the congratulations of the CDS to the Socialist Party and to Mrs Deputy in particular, or in particular, because she was elected. The honourable Member has come to speak of several victories, and has spoken of the victory of democracy. I understand where you want to go and am even able to subscribe to the intention behind this statement. Perhaps the victory of democracy will not be the most appropriate expression, considering that, in the case of our country, 70% of Portuguese preferred, between democracy and the beach, possibly the beach or stay at home. [[PS protests.]] in this sense, this is something of everyone's responsibility and that surely we all must somehow try to fight. I follow what you said about living a complex situation in Europe, not only with the issue of Brexit, with the question of migration, which is a phenomenon that will continue, with the question of trade relations with the United States, with the very relationship and the role that the European Union may have in mediating this conflict which I believe does not concern anyone, particularly the European Union and Portugal, which is the question of relations between the United States and China, the crisis in the Middle East, the role of Iran. There are therefore a number of complex issues, such as the honourable Member said, which is a very great challenge for the European institutions and the European Parliament, where the honourable Member will be. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of what we have been watching in recent days, over the last few hours, the formation of the Community bodies, their composition, which we believe must be a training based, above all on the merit and ability to compromise, to give Europe a muscle and an important voice, let me tell you that it does not seem to us that there can be great optimism in relation to this force, but I would like to hear your opinion on what the future of Europe might be, in particular starting from this negotiation, which I would say very little visible or even transparent, to the composition of European bodies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u323	Mrs Rubina Berardo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u324	Mr President, first of all, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques on her election. I would also like to ask again a question about the export of management, because here, in this Parliament, we note a great malaise in your partners of the government solution in relation to... [[PS protests.]] Yes, yes! No doubt. It has even been noted by the question posed by the Member of the Left Block! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u325	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member who is speaking must have the right to continue. I'm asking the House to keep quiet. [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u326	I would say that what they propose for the mosaic of the European Parliament is anti-management, because it is the anti-management of European governance. I would therefore like to ask you directly, Mrs Deputies, if you consider that your party family in the European Parliament is also willing to leave the ideological trenches precisely to find these future paths for the governance of the European Union. She spoke in the victory of the European Union, but this victory is always conditional on the victory of the governance and stability of the future of the European Union. Finally, the honourable Member asked to bring here an episode of the election campaign and to refer to a red card. This reminded me of a phrase that, with all humility, I think is very desirable for this moment, as well as for any moment, let us say, of life. This phrase says that « there is a need for humility in victory and greatness in defeat». It is that there was another red card in this country — Portugal does not tie itself to the continent — which led, precisely, to a cabin resignation in Funchal. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] It's important not to forget that. I remember that an old football referee and now PS/Madeira president also raised this red card in the presence of the leader of the National Socialist Party, precisely to show that red card.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u327	That has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u328	And what happened? It is because this card now led to the resignation of the mandate, which is expected to tomorrow by Paul Cafófo, because of the election results in Madeira. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u329	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Maria Manuel Leitão Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank Mr Nuno Magalhães and Mrs Rubina Berardo for the questions they asked and also for the congratulations they gave me for the election. Of course, I wouldn't come here today to celebrate a defeat, so I think it was understandable that he was here to celebrate the victory. Mr. Nuno Magalhães, I always look at the glass half full. It's life! In life, we always have different attitudes. Luckily, this is my attitude, I was born like this. In my life, I had moments of great difficulty, even people, in which I also looked at the glass half full. I have already been tested on this subject and therefore I am sure that I will not go to a comfort situation when I go to the European Parliament. I would be more comfortable than going there, looking at the difficulties that the European Union, this project in which I have always believed, will face in the next five years and probably not be solved during that time. But I always look with some optimism or, on the other hand, with some commitment, some effort, some energy for the hard things. It has always been so in everything I have done, from my professional life as a researcher to my life as a ruler, when I exercise these functions twice: looking at the hard things with more attention, knowing that they will require more effort, which will require more negotiation, which will require more creativity. It is probably not five years of institutional change that we might need, it is difficult to think about them. Therefore, we will have to live with creativity in the institutional framework that we have and seek the partnerships, bridges, the consensus necessary to guarantee essential values. Only in this sense can my words be read, never ignoring the many difficulties that we would certainly be here today, tomorrow, after and next week to discuss and list. But my attitude is this and probably it was expressed in my words. I don't give up on the difficulties. Whenever I was told, about a measure of the Simplex, « Mr. the Minister, this is very difficult", I replied « in the end, let's see if it's impossible, so that we'll try to achieve it». A little while ago, he said from the rostrum that there are much more beaches with blue flag. This probably had a perverse effect on abstention, but if they had looked at the blue flag they should have thought that there is also a bit of the European Union. As I have already said, I believe that this is a struggle for all of this Parliament, outside Parliament, for our schools, especially our universities, because we have voters there — people are already 18 years old — and certainly also for all the democratic parties represented here. Therefore, honourable Member, the difficulties are what we will need to be able to solve, we will have to manage many fair transitions at European level, not only the environmental transition — changes everything, the climate changes, the behavior changes, the regulation changes — but also the technological transition, which is very challenging. It may have been less discussed in these elections than the environmental transition, but it is very challenging because it will also change the paradigm of the economy, the paradigm of public administration and public decision, which will replace and create new jobs and must be done with concern for its social impacts.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u331	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u332	This is the challenge and I hope that we will always be able to exchange many opinions between the European Parliament and the national Parliament on it. Thank you very much and apologize, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u333	Madam President, on behalf of a friendship which you have had many years since the first legislative elections and for the Constituent Assembly, I would like to tell you that, of course, we all wish you an excellent job, such as the one you have done here over many years, at the service of our country and democracy. Thank you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Wanda Guimarães has the floor in accordance with Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This is the only urgent way to address me to all, not that I intend to teach someone something, because that is when you are very young; when you are my age you realize, on the contrary, that we still have much to learn. This was the first lesson of my most recent parliamentary experience, and it is about this experience that I want to talk to you about. First, thanks, because they are worthy: the Socialist Party, for obvious reasons, or possibly not so obvious to some who claim a fully autonomous status that comes to them from the popular vote, disconnected from the party whose lists are integrated. In fact, it is undeniable, we are all elected by the people and our mandate rests on the sovereign will of those who give us their trust. I am, however, lucid enough to realize that the vote was not given directly to Wanda Guimarães but to the Socialist Party and that, most likely, if it were, it would not be possible to be elected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] My thanks go to Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic for the tireless work he has done to ease the bureaucratic excesses that invade us, bringing the citizens' Parliament closer together. To exercise the presidency with elevation and intelligence and, at the same time, to do so with rigor and sense of humor were constant features in the performance of V.Ex. a, we admit, in a rare and happy conjugation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] My thanks also to the leader of my Parliamentary Group, Mr. Carlos César, and in him all the way, for having trusted my work, first at the level of the 10th Vice-Presidentship. the Commission and more recently in the Vice-Presidentship of the Group, despite a natural rebellion that I inherited from other struggles. My first note is to emphasize the relevance that PS has attributed to the world of work with these choices. Unfortunately, it was little accompanied. With experience of land in a union direction we are only three and two are of the Socialist Party. A warning for the upcoming elections to all parties: they value union performance. It is an essential school for those who move in people's lives and between theory and terrain the difference is abissal! I assure you that there is no better school. A further note on the parliamentary function: it impresses me with the shared 'normality' with which each of us exercises his mandate without often internalizing the nobility of the function we receive, but also his weight, and I speak for myself. When I realized that I was developing my work, as I always did, and that I forgot, in this development, the unique nature of these functions, I have tried to get my parliamentary daily away from the possible lightness in my performance and be permeated with this beautiful responsibility of representing people. My thanks go directly to my colleagues from the Committee on Labour and Social Security, who have helped me over four years whenever I take over your presidency, but also in my duties as a Member, and to all the comrades of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. We do not always stress the importance of our work as advisers, secretaries and other officials. I thank everyone for their hard work. I do not forget, especially on the left, and despite our different perspectives on some matters, the openness and team spirit that was possible to build, which resulted in considerable advances in the field of work and in the genuine and selfish pleasure that I withdrew from this work. But I also remember some people on the right, I confess more by them and from the human point of view than by the causes defended, understanding that the fact that they are in the minority, most of the time, has sharpened their speech. It comes by way of the third note: ideologies. We're going to stop hypocrisy. We all have an ideology (and well! ) because we all defend a certain conception of society, and we all hierarchy, although differently(and still well! ) , convictions and values. Even those who claim their repugnance by ideologies are no longer more than defending theirs to the detriment of others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] My only regret is that they are not able to affirm clearly, because the difference will always be a factor in the enrichment of societies. There are two things I understand we must retain in politics and in our lives: accepting is always despite. Accepting what is equal is easy, what is different, what is different, what is asking us is that it's difficult, because we're afraid to face what we don't understand. But it is our ability to overcome the unknown and to dive into it that makes us grow, and this in politics is fundamental. Choosing always implies a loss and we in politics know this feeling well, but we don't always deal well with it. It is essential to realize that any choice always implies leaving something behind. What is important is that what we reject is not essential. Fourth note: aging. Neither active nor passive, the condition of being old, the way we relate to others and the way others relate to us, with the passing of years. The numerous expressions that identify us reveal the discomfort and discomfort that we continue to cause in society. A society already, in which everything is more or less ephemeral, in which relationships between people are becoming more fragile and individualized, until people are separated by the mobility factor or by any other factor. You need to be modern at all costs, I'd say modern. A world in which trade marks replaced, in part, the seduction factors, in fact, cheaper and more appealing. Don't look at an azidume in this mess, it's not that, but it's sometimes very tiresome and annoying to be old! For example, instead of calling us old people, which is what we are, they invent a crazy number of epithetes: senior, elderly (the worst! ) , experienced, ancient, and add active to aging to see if they soften the concept. [[PS laughter.]] We don't need any of this. We just need them not to discriminate against us and they don't get us some more or less decent cages where they deposit us... [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] ...but they include us and they hold us accountable. Well, this was a responsibility I took on. I am the oldest person in the Assembly of the Republic, this plenary, of all parties and different genres, and yes, I take it, I want to prove something. I intended, above all, to demonstrate that an old person fits and integrates into a collective and that, yes, its contribution is useful. [[Congratulations from the PS, the members of BE José Manuel Pureza and José Moura Soeiro and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] In fact, they apologize for the immodesty, which is hardly indispensable, because no one can effectively jump forward that humanity needs so much if they do not understand the past and, more, if they do not know how to build the necessary bridge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I hope that my contribution has also been a warning in this regard. Finally, one clarification: with an increasingly loaded agenda I was afraid of losing this opportunity, but it is not a farewell. I'm not leaving now. I'm not leaving my commitments, but I won't come back. A final request to all parliamentary groups: do not put old people on ghettos, as we did years ago with women,... [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] ...with the fallacious argument of a pretentious and special habitat. Don't! We are all citizens of the world and as citizens of the world we have to mix: origins, races, genders, ages, ideologies and religions. This is also your job and it will continue to be mine. Thank you very much. [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing with Members, and with Members of the PSD and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u335	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, thank you very much for the excessive references you made to the President of the Assembly of the Republic, which can only be justified by a very old friendship, with a few years, let us say so, and thank you very much for the joviality that you have always maintained in this intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the joint assessment of Petition No 435 / XIII / 3. a ( André Lourenço e Silva et al.) — Calls for measures to be taken with a view to the use of vests in hunting and drafts of Law Nos 1090 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Bans the use of t-shirts as a means of hunting and 1091 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — Change the law of hunting by preventing the use of t-shirts as a hunting process, in general. To open the debate, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed this proposal three times and the arguments we already know them. In fact, this issue has hardly been raised in the absence of alarmism and accusations from hunting associations. In fact, I can facilitate your interventions: the ignorance of the interior and biodiversity, the economy of the territory and the chaos of the lack of control of the animal population and the end of the hunt, about which I would say it is clearly exaggerated. They will also seek abstract comparisons: the dogs created in freedom live much better than the confined animals, and I ask who did this. The problem is that this speech corresponds to the construction of a myth that removes serious debate and instrumentalizes the population of the interior. If we really want to talk about depopulation, maybe we should talk about the public services that the CDS and PSD have shut down. In your opinion, we still have a minimal state, especially as regards the interior, agriculture and the environment. The destruction of the capacity of the Directorates-General, the research laboratories related to the territory and the environment, the ICNF, the National Water Authority and so many others that we could mention was your work. If, in fact, they hear, as they say, the population of the interior, they know that these are their concerns, such as the intensification of agriculture and the environmental problems arising there, or the climate change and public health threatened by the phytofarms or the water that does not flow, the rain that does not fall and the arid soils, or the possibility of the populations to see the space where they live plunged by mines or roads that do not respect the territory. I am told that the current logic cannot be maintained, that it is necessary to bet on a different agriculture adapted to the territory, in the fight against intensive irrigation agriculture that attracts the boars to Alentejo and that takes away the small agriculture. They tell me that it is necessary to stop the pollution of companies in the river Tejo or Ferreira do Alentejo and to stop the water supply that occurs in the water perimeter of the Alqueva, which also goes by ensuring that these animals have natural spaces and food in the ecosystem without having to go down, looking for food in the cultivated fields. But there is a truth in your speech: the population, within, knows the territory and biodiversity better than me and you. What's a pity is that, in fact, the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen talk so much about them but don't listen to them. It is because they know, and they know, that in this and other issues, the human action and the options taken in the past is that they have led to depopulation, changes in ecosystems and massive extinction of species and biodiversity, either by hunting animals, in an unsolved way, or by the destruction of habitats. In fact, we have come to the conclusion that they can vote against this proposal again, but do not tell us that it is for the salvation of the rural world. In your arguments and options, we know that only a feudal world lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u337	In the context of the petition and to present your bill, you have the floor for an intervention Mr. Deputie do PAN, André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies: The hunting law determines that dozens of dogs are a means of hunting, the aim of which is to lift the animals that are in the slaughter. In the middle of the process, what happens, however, are real dilacerating and atrocious struggles between dogs and boars, foxes or deer. But where is the coherence to prohibit itself — and well — the fight between animals and then the exception to it in kinetic activity? Do dogs used in hunting have less value than others? We already know the language of the voice-speaking parties of the hunting industry, they will say that the NAP perceives nothing of preservation of ecosystems and that this is an ideological proposal against hunting and an attack on the rural and inland world. It is ironic that those responsible for policies that close the banks, pharmacies and health centers in the interior, which destroy ecosystems with the expansion of the intensive olive and the eucalyptus, who have stolen us the last free and wild rivers with the construction of large dams, which plasticize Costa Vicentina with stoves and promote the emigration and depopulation of the interior, accuse the NAP of attack on the rural world. The parties are irresponsibly defending the hunting sector, which resists to make an evolution in their methods and in their most anachronistic and inappropriate practices. The gentlemen. Members have to choose: either they are on the side of the path of progress or on the side of the most violent sectors of our society.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u339	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are to welcome, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that we are now discussing and through which the end of the use of hunting nets is claimed. In fact, as the petitioners well point out, in our country there are several means of hunting, where there are also the so-called « hunting dogs ». However, hunting dogs can be used in this context and currently in two ways. On the one hand, they can accompany the hunter, simply to pick up the prey after death and take it to the hunter, running the dog, in this case, as a mere carrier of the prey. But, apart from these cases, dogs often end up being turned into a real weapon against the targeted animal, since the death of the prey ends up as the result of the struggle between the dogs and the prey. However, this type of hunting using clothing is not, in our view, in line with Decree-Law No 315/2009 of 29 October since this legal diploma expressly prohibits in Article 31. the, the fight between animals, although the same diploma exempts this prohibition to cultural events. But this ban—it is important to say - it refers to the fight between animals and not just the fight between dogs. For this reason, The Greens consider that the law of hunting, by allowing hunting with the use of shirts for some kinegetic species, such as foxes, boars, deer and other species, is allowing or empowering what it intended to prohibit itself, thus distorting the meaning to point out the Decree-Law No 315/2009. We well know that we cannot generalise—and the Greens do not do so—because we know that the use of gloves as a hunting process is intended to pick up the hunt to speed up their catch by the hunters, but we also know that often the use of shirts as a powerful hunting process fights between the shirt and the prey, leading the dogs to turn into a weapon against the prey and, in some cases, getting their own dogs with serious injuries and even dying as a result of these fights. That is exactly why the Greens share the concerns expressed by the petitioners, but also the objective which motivated this petition and which aims to prevent the fight between animals. in this sense and for this purpose, the Greens follow the legislative initiatives that are also under discussion today and register, with pleasure, the fact that the NAP had this time the care and good sense not to mix « garlic with bugs», as happened in the last discussion on the subject, where the mixing of the use of clothing as a means of hunting with hunting the paulada ended up allowing the discussion to be completely distorted and diverted from what was essential, in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u341	Mr Nuno Serra, from the PSD, has the floor for intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, to this Parliament, the PAN and the Left Block bring a set of distorted arguments and today—it is a mistake! — even the closure of the TTCs and public services to justify the proposal to end hunting gears. It's impressive! thus, these parties try to convince the Portuguese that the kinetic activity and the 250 000 hunters are the problem of environmental balance or ecosystem. Mrs. Members of the PAN and the Left Block, this ideological, populist obsession that only thinks about votes and that effectively wants to end hunting conditions - the vision that would allow you to see the advantages of kinetic activity in our territory, whether economic, social or even environmentally. The 250,000 hunters in Portugal are the true healers of the environment; they detect pests and animal diseases, which often detect fires, which balance the ecosystem, which control predators and do so, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, without charging a toss to the state, without asking for a vote, as you do, and without any ideological imposition. These men and women hunt because they are free, because they have the freedom to do, because they like nature and their territory. Mrs. Members, conditioning the hunt is to condition the environment, the balance of species, the ecosystem, it is to attack the rural environment and the kinetic activity by a mere ecological prejudice, it is to want to leave much of our territory to abandon. Mrs. Members of the PAN and the Left Block, I ask you to make a deep reflection on your way of thinking, to put aside all this populism and this electoralistic facet. What I was hoping for today from the Mrs. Members were not to come here to ask them to end the hunting gears, essential in this environmental balance and in the regulation of predators. What I expected them to do today was to be on the Portuguese side, from children to the elderly, to protect domestic animals and livestock, to promote the well-being of the populations and their belongings, bringing here proposals to eradicate the wild rags that proliferate in our country, attacking everything and all. Mrs. Members, these mittens, yes, are dangerous to people and to other animals, they disbalance and affect the environment, deregulation of the ecosystem. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why they don't? Because doing so would be to put forward the interests of people, animals and the environment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they do not because your interests are yourself and are the populist and demagogic interests that they have in your ideologies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u343	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u344	Mr President, I will not repeat the arguments, perhaps with the regret of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, but I realize that the NAP does not care about the damage in agricultural crops, even if this means the loss of income of thousands of farmers and their form of subsistence, because agriculture is an activity that you do not understand and that you do not like. I also understand that the NAP does not worry about the possibility of contamination of thousands of mountain pigs or with so many thousands of pigs from intensive livestock farms, because it wants to impose a veganist dictatorship on us, so it does not have any kind of problem with health problems that may arise there. I no longer understand, I confess, the lack of consistency of the Left Block, which, still recently, has put forward initiatives to control the population of boars and now wants to ban clothing, which are the most effective way to control. I ask you, Madam Member, how does the Left Block — which approved a CDS project and even presented another — intend that this control of the population should be done? Is it spooking javales to the neighbor's lands? And it is not only in the intensive cultures of the southern country that there are problems, also in the center of the country, where there is small farming is where there are more problems of javalis attacks, for example, which are one of the species that hunts with coats. I also understand that the two parties do not care at all about the importance of hunting for the rural economy, despite what they say, contrary to what they say. In fact, they have no concern or sensitivity to rural areas. I also understand that the NAP, as an animalistic party that it is, wants to protect the boars and deer and, on the limit — I do not know very well, Mr. — take them to any of the sanctuaries that so much defend and that the taxpayers, who we are all, would have to pay our taxes somehow. What I don't understand, Mr André Silva, is how this plays with the environmentalist PAN. Now, a party that aims to assert itself as the only one, the true Portuguese environmentalist party, as we have recently heard, has proposed to end with the only effective way of controlling species that are in imbalance in nature. The NAP says that it is humanist, animalist and ecologicalist and that all this is interconnected, but again, without surprise, as a radical and totalitarian party that it is, it intends to impose its ideology with false arguments under a pretense label of environmentalist. Mr President, do you know what the real meaning of "Ecology" is? I give you two examples that I went to look for a scientific site, to the Portuguese Society of Ecology, which presents several definitions: the science of habitat or a branch of biology that studies the relationships between living beings and the environment. Man is a living being, as you know, Mr. Deputies. Well, we, men, live in an ecosystem... [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] Biosphere is more than an ecosystem. The only predator of big hunting species, such as deer and boar, who are in imbalance, is Man, in this ecosystem in which we live. They therefore call into question biodiversity — something that they so much appreciate, but not that they do not know, and look at the example of the Arrábida greenhouse — in addition to being a health threat that is driving the whole of Europe to implement control measures, the mountaineers who use the most effective way to do it. Finally, Mr President, even though Mr André Silva wants to impose a new definition of Ecology, the nude and raw reality is that the NAP does not resist its animalistic nature and once again presents a proposal that addresses the nature which it so much says defends. If he had, in fact, a great interest in understanding biodiversity, for example, had been listening to the presentation of the Centre of Competences for the Study, Management and Sustainability of the Cinderella and Biodiversity Species...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u345	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u346	... which aims to study this effect. So, yes, I could speak with knowledge of cause. As for the Left Block, we still do not understand the inconsistencies of the statements they make. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u347	What is the inconsistency? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u348	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro do Carmo, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u349	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I would naturally like to congratulate the petitioners and say the following: the Bills Nos 1090 and 1091, which accompany this petition and which were submitted by the Left Block and the PAN, respectively, aim to prohibit the use of clothing as a means of hunting. Hunting is an activity of the rural world, practiced by its residents or, better, by resilient men and women who continue to live and defend the interior territories. Portugal must increasingly be the sum of the various realities that make up the national territory, with greater attention to the interior and the raean regions, and with a sustained recovery of the lost time that led it to desertification and the lack of affirmation of all the potential of the rural world. Hunting, ladies. Members, there is to maintain the balance of the ecosystem, that ecosystem, of which man is an integral part,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u350	The man and the woman!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u351	... and I ask you again not to forget that. Hunting ensures, among other things, the sustainability of the rural world and its people. The bills and petition now presented are intended to prevent man from hunting. Hunting, but hunting without a dog. And, as the people say, «he who does not have a dog, hunts with a cat». [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[General laughter.]] I think that is clearly not the best alternative in this case. So let's go to a concrete and essential case. Mrs. Members, at this time there is — recognised by all — a very significant increase in the population of boars, which brings serious problems to the rural world, not only: they destroy cultures, with serious damage to farmers; they say species; it is a species without predator, which invades, as is known to all, urban spaces;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u352	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u353	... finally, and the most serious of all, is a major public health problem, because they are the transmitters of diseases such as, for example, the African swine fever, which is beginning to be signalled in some European countries and which, if it comes to Portugal, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will undoubtedly be a tragedy for the sector and for our economy. It's a very serious problem, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is clear and true is that there can be no beating of the boars, there can be no assembly for population control and for the safety of populations without use of the mittens, without the use of the dogs. It can only be said that anyone who completely does not know this reality. To combat this plague, in relation to the boars, as well as other species, there is a need for clothing that helps man, because otherwise it is not possible. The PS is available, as always, for all animal welfare rules to be complied with. Maintenance and use of clothing must meet all conditions of respect and good treatment for animals. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, PS is not available for this measure, because it is wrong to want to turn hunting dogs into home dogs. It's not good for man or dog. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u354	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr John Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of the fact that the kinetic resources are a renewable but finite asset, it is important to promote their preservation and promotion within the framework of a territorial planning policy. However, the preservation and promotion of kinetic resources cannot be achieved only at the expense of limiting access to hunting for the majority of hunters — those with the lowest resources — or by accumulating measures, such as those we are discussing today. The difficulties in access to hunting, either by associated costs, or by the shortage of hunting, are a reality today, in much connection with the abandonment of agricultural activity or with changes in agricultural practices. But other problems arise, in the case of wild boars or deer, since they function as a reservoir of diseases and means of transmission to livestock herds, with profound economic implications on livestock holdings. Therefore, the CFP believes that it would be essential for a deep and broad reflection on the problem of hunting in Portugal. In fact, the PCP approved in 2017 in this House a draft resolution that specifically aimed at this, but this reflection was not done, it was not achieved. A broad reflection and debate, with the participation of all concerned, are necessary to ensure that the decisions to be taken are correct, even correcting some wrong past decisions. For the PCP, the rules governing hunting will have to safeguard biodiversity, kinetic activity and regional development enhanced by it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rural world cannot be defended day by day yes, day by day, its defence must be every day! It is not because it gives more visibility today, but rather because of duty; nor because of jokes or interchanges, as we have just watched. [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] To ban hunting, to defend the end of the hunt—which is what we have witnessed, with successive proposals that have come to this House—is not to defend the rural world, is to join those who are destroying it; it is to join those who create the conditions to close—or even have sent to close—the railway lines, railway stations, mail stations, health stations, schools and even fregetal joints; it is to join those who have supported and supported agricultural policies that cause the abandonment of family agriculture; it is to join those who have withdrawn the means for intervention that alleviates disastrous policies of incentive to depopulation; it is to join those who have demonized public investment or divert their funds to support the bank and financial capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u356	Where's that going?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u357	Yes, because whoever wants to defend the rural world has to say no to the attack on life in the rural world; he must necessarily take the hunt into account, since it is an activity inherent to the people of our villages. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defense of a living rural world, with all its components, is made by another way, by breaking up with a right-wing policy, by building an alternative policy, of which we do not give up. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u358	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate, so let us turn to Petition No 512 / XIII / 3. a ( José Rui Pereira da Silva Raposo ) — Modernization of the West Railway Line. I would give the floor, with great pleasure, to a member of the House. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u359	Mr President, I call for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u360	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who want to use the floor, please sign up. In the meantime, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing the quality of the West Line, a fundamental railway line for our country, which has been successively abandoned by several governments and therefore arrives at a chaotic situation, such as that in which it is today. But it must also be said that the abandonment by successive governments has been duly assessed in successive elections. The former Government acknowledged what was missing in the West Line and therefore entered into the 2030 development plan the need for investment, and an investment of more than EUR 100 million. What we are doing today is assessing what the PS government has done, supported by the PCP and the Left Block, on the West Line. And, dear friends, I think you must be ashamed. First, because everything that was planned, in terms of requalification project, was delayed, postponed sine die, nothing happened. Take the initial calendar and see what's done: zero! But then, on top of that, not satisfied with the fact that they did not make the new investments, what happened? Removal of hours, removal of carriages, a complete stagnation of the stations. So what we have to offer today, and that's why you have to be evaluated today, is the West Line 100 times worse than it was four years ago. Whose responsibility? Responsibility of the PS and also of the PCP and the Left Block, because they support this line of government that has harmed the country and the West. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u362	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Margarida Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u363	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to point out that I understand the petitioners well. To get an idea, in the Toures Vedras-Lisboa, from 7 hours and 30 minutes to 8 hours and 30 minutes, there is a bus every 5 minutes; in the route Bombral-Lisboa, there is a bus of 15 minutes at the beginning of the morning; in the route Caldas da Raina-Lisboa, 90 km, there are 30 buses between 5 hours and 30 minutes and 13 hours. When I address the problem of the West Line, I always carry two dimensions: an emotional dimension, because I daily used the West Line during my two years of secondary studies; and an economic dimension, about the value of the Line. The West region, by the proximity of Lisbon, by the real estate pressure in the capital, by the quality of life in the region, by the improvement of the roads, by the economic growth of the region to which we have witnessed, has become a region with dual characteristics: a region with its identity and economic value and a suburban region. For those who daily move for work, education or other reasons, particularly in their suburban dimension, the railway is the preferred way for these kind of pendulum movements. Rail transport leaves a much smaller environmental footprint than road transport. The PS has a commitment to the voters—modernizing the West Line—and will do everything to ensure that this Line fulfils its function as an effective link to the city and as a link to the northern roads of the country. We are committed to speeding up, in time, our commitment to the voters. We carried out an initiative on 19 July 2018. The train was cancelled but the initiative remained. This line, after years of paralysis and inefficiencies, must become a fast, efficient means of transport, and must respond to the needs of citizens, families and businesses, becoming an alternative to individual transport or road transport. We await the approval of the project implementing the modernization of the West Line, in the Caldas da Raina / Meleças section, scheduled for the next few weeks, and we await the launch of the contests for their projects. But more is needed! A new link to the south — Malveira / Gare do Oriente —, it is necessary to modernise signaling and telecommunications systems, it is essential to renew rolling stock, which we hope will be strengthened quickly, it is essential to prepare the study on the connection to the North Line. Having said this, no government has invested in rail as much as this! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u364	Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed one more petition for the modernization of the West Railway Line, among many other petitions, in defense of the modernization of the West Railway Line, which have already arrived and were discussed at different times over this decade, I repeat, over this decade. This means that this conversation is already 10 years old — 10 years old! -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u366	Mr. Deputies is very young!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u367	...and hasn't left the project phase yet. He hasn't left the project phase yet, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u368	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u369	This does not lead us to devalue the urgency and the justifications that the people here have brought us systematically so that the Assembly of the Republic and the Government will hear their call for the modernization and re-qualification of the West Railway Line. This is a problem of the competence of the Government or, better, of the Governments, who for 10 years have announced the need for re-qualification and modernisation of the Line, but who have not even completed the implementation project.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u370	Today, the Block is opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u371	The unique environmental title of the project implementation report was issued only on 1 March 2019. After this, there are still a number of projects, which make up the future book of charges that will serve as a basis for the launch of the contests, which means that we still have three or four months ahead of us until all the procedural pieces that are part of the book of charges are in a position to justify the launch of the contest for the works. Mrs. Members, it was planned that this phase of projects, which we are dealing with here and still discussing, would be completed at the end of December 2016. Repeat : December 2016! We are in 2019, almost mid 2019, and the projects are not all ready to launch the competition, initially scheduled for the first quarter of 2017. Why is this happening this way, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! We have already repeatedly questioned the Government, former Minister Pedro Marques and now Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, about whether the infrastructure of Portugal ( IP ) has or does not have the capacity to develop and implement projects that are announced, for example, in the railway 2020. And finally, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos told us, weeks ago, in the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, that no, indeed the infrastructure of Portugal is extremely lacking in technical frameworks, teams able to make and develop projects and then to monitor the implementation projects of this Railway 2020 programme. How do we get out of this maze?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u372	They remembered now!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u373	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u374	We left, returning to the constitution of a « REFER », a company dedicated to railway projects — to the construction, supervision and development of all projects. This is what we have proposed in our national railway plan and that is why we invite this House, always and at every moment, to rethink the vote against the proposal for a national railway plan which we have presented here...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u375	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u376	... and finally approving a railway IP that is able to develop skills and capabilities to carry out this urgency which is the modernization of the West Railway Line. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u377	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will also not be breaking the consensus and I do not care until I subscribe to the statement of opposition made by Mrs Margarida Marques of criticism to the Government and to the protection of the failure to fulfill the promises made by the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u379	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u380	So I don't want to break the consensus here and it doesn't cost me anything to subscribe even to the criticisms of the government supporter Mr. Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block. That said, a word of support is missing, both for the authorities and for the people, because they have never dropped this Line and have always called attention to its need and importance, either from an economic point of view, from a tourist point of view, or from the point of view of the usefulness for the many industries, from the outset the agro-industry, which this Line serves, as well as to complement the national rail system. We all agree on this. Therefore, if there is a fault of the previous governments—and this too does not make it difficult for me to admit— there was an effort of the various petitions, of the various initiatives, of all the benches, where the CDS includes itself. We have presented a number of draft resolutions and initiatives, drawing attention to the need not to abandon this Line, and it is clear that we have seen the government say: 'well, we have the 2020 Railway'. It is that in the railway 2020, not dealing with the whole Line, there was at least the electrification of the portion Melez-Caldas. And we thought, well, it'll finally be true. Until we had the Minister of Environment and Energy Transition to say that the bet was on energy sustainability: ending gas oil, transforming our transport system, making it environmentally sustainable. The fact is that, despite the electrification of a small piece, the largest blackout is recorded in the electrification of this line. We discuss here what is the implementation of the 2020 Railway. I would say that, among other things, the 2020 Railway may be the biggest mistake of socialist governance. And I would like this line to serve as an example, because it says well how it was not designed, not prepared, it was a lie, it was not to do nor was it ever. The work is promised since 2016, but then the IP said it would be in December 2017. The Minister, in January 2017, made a promise and said, « good, we will make a growing, robust, comprehensive and sustainable investment ». The Minister has already left and the growing, robust, comprehensive and sustainable investment on the West Line has given off! [[Laughing.]] I apologize for the brejeirice, but to respect the people and the economy, I have no other word. We could be talking on a line that is not important, but this line is actually important. It is not necessary to load in paints to justify this Line and therefore, in view of the fact that the deadlines in the 2020 Railway are not being met, on a Line with this importance, or it would have to be harder and say that it would be incompetence, or it would be, perhaps, unfair and would say that it is bad will. So I used the most nice term I found. I conclude by saying: do the work and, since we are all in agreement, including the PS, let us oppose the government and demand everyone to fulfill their promise! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Laughter of PS Member Margarida Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u381	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, to begin by greeting the more than 6400 petitioners who bring petition No 512 / XIII / 3 to the Assembly of the Republic. the presented, precisely, to claim an intervention in the West Railway Line, namely its modernization, as well as the existence of more circulating material that responds to the transport needs of the populations. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is because many expectations have been created, but there has been little realization regarding the claim of these petitioners, which, in turn, translates the claim of the populations and of all the users who use and need this railway line to promote their movement. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that these delays have also gone through a number of governments. The PSD and CDS now arrive at the Assembly of the Republic and it seems that only now they have started listening to people! These claims have come for a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u383	It's in PETI 3 +, with 100 million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u384	Of course, I am not at this point apologizing to the current government on this issue, but you are talking as if it had just appeared out of nowhere! No, you have to assume responsibility for all the delays and expectations that have been created and not realized. And we believe that there is indeed a huge delay. The petitioners, when they came to the hearing, showed to all parliamentary groups that were present that the situation worsened from year to year. I was pleased to be the rapporteur of this petition and, therefore, to accompany in particular and to schedule, including, the hearing of petitioners, but this was quite clear, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you don't do things, things are getting worse. And, in this relationship that people have to deal with their pendulum movements of travel, home/workplace, when no concrete answers are given, there are numerous losses in people's lives: they have very long waiting times; they have no conditions to wait for the train where they must wait; they often have to resort to alternative transport, such as the bus, taking twice and triple the time, with severe losses to their lives. The Greens have already made several interventions in the Assembly of the Republic on this matter, in particular with the presentation of draft resolution No 1557 / XIII / 3. the, precisely on the modernization and creation of mobility conditions in the West Railway Line, which was approved. Therefore, in our view, there is clearly a commitment from the Government to the Assembly of the Republic on this matter, and we will continue to demand speedy in this investment. As you know and the gentlemen. Members will recognize, there has been a very consistent and recurrent intervention by the Greens Ecological Party in relation to the need for a wager in rail transport, which is decisive for what everyone is now putting in their speeches, which is the fight against climate change, but when it comes to concrete measures it is only to drag, drag and drag. And we also make the voice of the petitioners, in order to demand urgency, and we will continue to beat ourselves for it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u385	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u386	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, I would like to welcome the more than 6400 people who have subscribed to this petition and who once again put to this House the real problem that people face on a daily basis, which is the situation in which the process of modernization of the West Line is being dragged, and we believe that it is not 10 years ago, it has been much more than that. It was 10 years ago, but it's a problem that's been dragging for a long time. They have now passed in April three years since the PCP presented, in this legislature, its Draft Resolution No. 267 / XIII / 1. the, in defense of the requalification of rail transport in the West Line as a development factor. This initiative was adopted in this House, with the abstention of the PS, and continues, fundamentally, with all the present. It is true that the Government and the IP — Portugal’s infrastructures continue to fail to fulfil their obligations. In fact, this situation in which the IP is found is inextricable and translates into problems like this, because the lack of capacity that has been caused, in particular by the previous Government, and to which this Government is not responding, the lack of capacity, at the technical level, in the structure of the IP, to meet these needs and responsibilities, then translates into an intervention that should have been on the ground a year ago, but there is not even a date for the launch of the competition to carry out the work of modernisation of the West Line. The competition continues to open, with all the deadlines beyond it, and once again we stress that the austere decision to merge the REFER with the Portuguese Roads is, in particular, to translate into situations like this. Therefore, this is the concrete translation and the result of the measures decided on, particularly by the previous Government, but that this Government confirms and maintains, by advancing with that political option. With regard to rolling stock, after a period of relative calm, the situation tends to worsen from a few weeks ago to this part due to the lack of rolling stock. A few days ago, in the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company ( EMEF), a technician told me: « look, that dual diesel unit ( UDD ), those blue trains from the West Line, which also exist in Alentejo and Algarve, last month they were making 18 000 km per month, which was what the Alphas did when they were new ». For the ladies. Members have a notion, this is the wear on which the circulating material is placed, the trains at the service, which have decades and which, therefore, fail, do not appear and people stay without train and are pushed every day to the road and to the truck, which does their business, cheerfully, with the lack of trains on the West Line. According to the latest information we have, discounts on social passes continue to apply on the railway and the agreement between CIM ( intermunicipal community) and CP ( Portugal trains ) will be closed. This perspective raises the need to ensure not only the discount on rail passes, but also the effective price reduction for levels and objectives that should be defined without discrimination at the territorial level. The problems in the conservation of stations and in the modernisation plan throughout the Line remain. Finally, Mr President, I stress two aspects. First of all, I would like to remind you that as a result of a question from the CFP in the European Parliament, the European Commission confirms the existence of programmes and funding lines that can be applied in the modernisation of the Line and therefore there are resources that cannot be wasted here. We even ended with a greeting to the populations, users, workers who continue to fight for the West Line, who never gave up fighting and who even defeated the previous PSD/CDS government, who wanted to close the Line and did not succeed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u387	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u388	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I hear this debate, Mr President, I have no doubt. After all, who is this government supported? [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] It is that the parties that support the government daily were the parties who made the most critical of the delays in the works on the West Line, starting with the Socialist Party, who recognized that nothing was done. But Mrs Margarida Marques — and I congratulate you on your recent election — let me tell you that I cannot believe what you have said here, because what Mrs Margarida Marques said was: "We have done nothing, but now it is going, now it is going! Have faith you're going now! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The other parties, which support the government on a daily basis, who support budgets with lower public investment than in troika time, who support this level of public investment, now cry « crocodile tears », because the projects should already be made and have not happened. Unfortunately, they cry a lot, but reality is what it is: what you have to show the West is that they did zero! It's not much, it's zero or less than zero! They say: "In the past, you have done little".
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u389	They dismantled the REFER!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u390	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the past has been evaluated, and you know something? We won the elections! Now, it is your present that will be evaluated and what you deserve is a zero, which is what you did in the West. Mr President, in conclusion, and in order to be able to meet the mobilisation of so many people who have signed this petition, let me just ask you to send an invitation to Minister Pedro Nuno Santos to make this train trip, so that he becomes aware and, in the short time remaining from his mandate, can finally move forward with this project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-05-29.u391	You will certainly have the echo of your words, Mr President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of today's debates. The next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow for 3 p.m. and the only item on the agenda will be the request to the Government No 28 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — About the health situation in Portugal. Nothing else to deal with, the session is closed. Good afternoon to all. [[It was 19 hours and 6 minutes.]]
