ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who do the favor of opening the galleries. Since there is no record to be read, we will enter the first point of our agenda, which consists of a current debate required by the Social Democratic Party under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on rail gauge. To begin the debate, Mr Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In democracy, the end of a term of office usually coincides with a phase of inauguration. This government, as it has no openings to carry out, a few months from the elections, and in order to disguise what it has not done and should have done, confronts us with an avalanche of announcements of works that do not exist, with promises of billions for "all and a pair of boots", without any guaranteed funding, without the necessary reflection, in a kind of "all to the sauce and faith in God" — yes, this is the image that can be obtained from the 2030 programme!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u4	It happens that the concrete reality of the day-to-day Portuguese is very bad at the level of the railway. When we have trains that lose the engine running, we reach the unthinkable! We propose this debate today because we do not see, or see, the development and modernisation of the railway in this same plane, in particular in the form of a European bottleneck. Throughout Europe, international rail corridors follow the same standard measures, which provide mobility and interoperability, making countries more accessible. We are talking about modern, comfortable and high-speed trains, not high-speed projects, with which, probably, Mr. Government members will try to confuse Portuguese in their intervention. The question is whether or not the Portuguese Government intends to wager on the railway, following a European standard. The answer is 'no'! The Government intends to invest in railways in the international route, but in Iberian single-track, this one which will no longer be Iberian and will become only Portuguese, because from 2023 Spain will abandon it and only Portugal alone will remain with it in a kind of railway Brexit. [[PSD applause.]] They will ask: What do the Portuguese gain from this? Nothing! On the contrary, they lose nothing, because the insistence on this strategic error seriously compromises the future of our companies: they lose exports, they lose productivity and the competitiveness of our economy, not to mention the loss of the environmental advantages of removing thousands of trucks from roads, the loss of advantages in terms of reducing the cost of transport of goods, the loss of advantages in reducing energy dependence and the unbelievably loss of access to Community funds which can go up to 85 %, to the bottom. This, for an economy with the characteristics of ours, will certainly not be discarding. Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Portugal is losing opportunities and the government puts us on a real and dreaded railway island. The fact that the Government insists on the Iberian bottle, when it announces the greater modernisation of the last 100 years, is a strategic mistake because it leaves Sines, our port with the greatest potential, completely disconnected from Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u6	It is not true that Sines will be connected to Europe, as Mr Prime Minister says. Once again, as at Beja airport, the Alentejos will even be « watching trains pass» and the Port of Sines will be hit by the European train. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, seaports cannot be shut off from Europe. Portugal has invested much in increasing the logistics capacity of maritime ports, this being a competitive advantage factor for Portugal vis-à-vis the other countries of Europe. in this context, it is extremely critical and indeed demanding a fast means of communication, with great ability to transport goods, because only Portugal could be the true gateway to the goods circulating in the Atlantic Ocean, addressed to Europe. Unbelievable is even the justification given by Mr Minister, in a recent interview, when he said that « maintaining the Iberian bottle is a way to avoid unbridled competition from liberalised markets ». This serves whom, Minister Pedro Marques? Oh, my God! Natural protection from what? Oh, my God! What public interest is needed if we continue to invest in Iberian bottle? Oh, my God! Mrs. Government members, protecting the public interest and our companies is to allow the use of our transport network by different operators and free competition, so that we can benefit from better prices and better services for businesses and citizens, to the detriment of monopolies. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Spain has already realized the advantage it has to keep Portuguese ports isolated from the rest of Europe, and for this reason it is betting on a significant transformation of its rail transport into European bottlenecks. The Government insists that Spain is not doing anything in European pen, which is completely false. The corridors are advancing in Spain, they are not moving to Portugal! Why would it be? It is perfectly natural for Spain to move forward its European bitola projects internally and not advance to Portugal, because the more far away our ports are from the centre of Europe, the better for Spanish businesses and economies. In terms of transport, we will be conditioned by Spain and fully dependent on the logistics platforms that are being built near our borders, in Vigo, Salamanca and Badajoz. Mr. Minister, who is in the campaign and has not come to this Parliament, continues to say cheerfully that he will make the greatest investment of the century!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u7	He's campaigning!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u8	A few months ago in this Parliament I advised the Minister of Infrastructure to stop, listen and look: to stop with the campaign, to listen to the Portuguese and to look to the future. Now, I leave you with one more advice: that stop to think a little bit of what public interest is that you intend to beware. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u9	The Bureau records the registration of Mr. Ricardo Bexiga of the Socialist Party to request clarification from Mr. Carlos Silva. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Silva, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is very excited about this current debate on the bottle, and we imagine that the Portuguese people are too. However, we have some difficulty in realizing how, at the moment we live a process of great transformation in the rail sector, at the time when, finally, we are recovering from the years and years of marasmo and total abandonment to which the previous government, PSD / CDS, voted the national rail system, the PSD now comes with the theme of the bitola. This only shows that, possibly at this time, not only with regard to transport but mainly with regard to the major issues of interest to the Portuguese, in the PSD Parliamentary Group, the only issue on which there will be any consensus will be on the issue of the bottle. The Portuguese, of course, thank the PSD! [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u11	Mrs. Members of the PSD, I would like to see if they thought carefully about the issue that brought the debate today in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u12	That's offensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u13	What do you propose? Do you propose that the Government make a global investment in changing the current rail channel bitola system on all national lines? At the regional service? In the urban service? In the freight service?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u14	He didn't hear! You didn't hear me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u15	Do they also propose that the Government make a global investment in order to change the material that today circulates on our railway lines to affect them on the European bottleneck? Do you know that today the circulating material already has bogies with a variable axis that adapts its circulation to the European bottle and to the Iberian bottle? What is the cost that you have proposed for this proposal to amend the Iberian bottle to the European bottle that leads you to bring this matter to the present day? What is the need, in particular from the point of view of the freight service, to change the current bottle to the European bottle? Is it not true that today, from the point of view of the goods service, what we are really interested in is the Iberian bottle, because the great corridor is that of Portugal-Spain?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u17	Do you also intend to change the bottle in the passenger service? Is that what you want? In fact, it is astonishing that after years and years of abandonment of the railway sector, when the government is finally changing the importance of the rail system, not only within the national framework but also internationally, they are bringing forward a proposal for an amendment without even being able to report its cost. What are the options for this amendment? [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the issues I leave to the PSD Parliamentary Group, with the assurance that the country is grateful that it has brought this important issue to the discussion of the political current session today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u18	To reply, Mr. Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u19	Mr President, I am grateful for the question put by Mr Ricardo Bexiga of the Socialist Party. Mr President, we are always available to talk about the past and we fully assume our heritage of the past, but on the present and the future, you have to speak, and therefore the questions have to be asked yourself. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u20	So, about that, I think we're talking about it. With regard to international corridors—because that is what we are talking about—more than passengers, they are even the goods that need to be circulated in international corridors. You know why? It is that a container of a Portuguese company pays more than 50 % on the Irun border to move to the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u21	How far?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u22	This is unbelievable! This is fragmenting Portuguese companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u23	Is that because of the bottle? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u24	You know what? Until we can continue with the Iberian bottle until 2023, but you know what's going to happen next? We will travel along a narrow road, through Spain, through Ciudad Real, to Madrid.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u25	Are you going to Spain? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u26	And you know what's gonna happen? Our goods will be waiting for a wave to enter the main international corridors, they will not have it, and once again, companies will see their costs high.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u27	Sir, where did you go? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u28	As such, there are advantages to which we will not benefit in the future, because the Socialist Party has no strategic view of Portuguese and business. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u29	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructures, Guilherme d’ Oliveira Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u30	Aren't you going to speak to the Minister of Infrastructure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal currently has the most ambitious programme of modernisation of the rail network in recent decades. I am talking about the 2020 Railway Plan, a public investment plan of EUR 2000 million, which includes interventions on the main railway axes in more than half the network.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u32	It's already made 5 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u33	The Railway 2020 plan ensures better levels of comfort and safety for the movement of passengers and goods, while substantially strengthening the role of rail transport in support of new businesses, exports and the economy. In the middle of its implementation period, past the design time of the projects, the 2020 Railway is already visible on the ground, on the various corridors, on the Minho Line, on the Douro Line, on the North Line, on the Beira Alta, on the Beira Baixa and on the East. At this time, we are 40% of the plan completed or being implemented, i.e. we speak of more than EUR 800 million, without counting on the projects. A few days ago, we awarded the first piece of the new line between Évora and Elvas, a global investment of more than EUR 500 million, the largest of the last 100 years—I repeat, the largest of the last 100 years— which is integrated into the South International Corridor and will approach the main ports of the border with Spain and from there on to Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u34	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u35	In the North International Corridor, which goes from Aveiro to Vilar Formoso, we are performing works to open the piece Covilhã / Guard, which has been closed for more than a decade, and we will modernize the High Beira Line and propose to the European Union the construction of the piece Aveiro / Mangualde. We are not talking about work on paper, we are talking about work that is already being executed, which is already on the ground. We speak of work in the North International Corridor and the South International Corridor, which are two of the main railway 2020 projects, both funded and approved by the European Union and both to be built in close coordination with Spain, to which the network will be connected. I repeat: everything has been coordinated with Spain, from a political point of view, at the summits, and from a technical point of view, to ensure total interoperability.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u36	It's from 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u37	Don't be mistaken, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not in the 19th century! In the 19th century, the debate of the bottle was a debate of rigid bitola. Technology has evolved, the system allows for the change of cylinders, either from the point of view of circulating material or from the point of view of infrastructure. And this change is made efficiently, quickly and with low costs. But this only makes sense if it is in close articulation with Spain. Remember that Spain has 87 % of the network in Iberian bitola, I repeat, 87 % of the network in Iberian bitola! And Portugal and Spain are fully coordinated in the use of international corridors in multi-purpose crossings to allow migration. That is, in both countries, trains will continue to circulate in Iberian bitola, leaving the structure fully prepared to migrate to European bitola when both countries, in a coordinated manner, decide. This is the only way to prevent us and Spain from being isolated from the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u38	We, us! Not Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u39	In fact, we are ending decades of de-investment and abandonment of the railway and this is only possible with careful public investment, coordinated with the neighbouring country, Spain, and preparing Portugal to be a more cohesive and fully connected country of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u40	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, it may not seem but there is some relevance in this debate marked by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u42	There must be!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u43	With friends of these! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u44	I wouldn't go cheap, when talking about infrastructures that have a relevance to the future of the country, which is devaluation, because this devaluation always costs a lot of money ahead. And that's what we're talking about. Mr. Secretary of State, the Government of which you are part—and I understand that Mr. Minister cannot come, since he should no longer have the courage to face— said that the train Aveiro / Salamanca is advancing in the current political cycle, such as Sines / Elvas. And these two lines, only these two — Aveiro / Salamanca only exists in the role and therefore it is a lie in the current political cycle, it is a mirage of which I will not speak —, without it seems to exist, is such the greatest investment of the century. Therefore, since the government announced hundreds of millions of euros for this political cycle in the railway, with these two lines it makes sense the question, the weighting, whether they are in Iberian cod or in European cod, and it makes sense to ask a few questions. Of course, I would like to ask, forgetting the line Aveiro / Salamanca, if the line Sines / Elvas is for goods or is also for passengers. This is the first question for the Secretary of State to answer in a clear and simple way, so that we can understand exactly what we are talking about. Second question is whether it is in Iberian bottle from Sines to Elvas or is it only from Elvas to Caia, or, as you now say, with variable bottle and also with the possibility of changing the circulating material from axis to axis to be able to adapt? Mr. Secretary of State came here to say that it is all in agreement with Spain, but it happens that we have numerous meetings in which this Parliament participates, at the Luso-Spanish summits,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u45	2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u46	... and if it is to see all the decisions coming out of these meetings they talk about the need to adopt the European bottleneck between the two countries. On the other hand, if we look at the Spanish Government's promotion plan, at the investment of Spanish promotion and at what is already being done on the ground, what we have seen is in a European bottleneck, mainly in the networks of goods. If you see what's happening Vitoria-Gasteiz Logistics Platform in Victoria is exactly an investment made practically in European bottle. It is therefore important to ask how long it takes, how long, how competitive it is for the Portuguese economy to make the transfer of the Iberian bottle to the European bottle. How much it costs Portugal to be perfectly dependent, only and only, on Spanish technology, since the only country, with the exception of Poland and Russia, which will have Iberian bottle, either through the axis or through the route, is Spain. Do you think it defends Portugal's public interest and strategic interest to be stuck to the Spanish market? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u47	In the meantime, two more were registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. To this end, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, of the Social Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I brought an intervention for the late minister, we were lucky to have the outgoing minister, who at least does not bring an original sin as the previous trait, which was to have belonged to the government of José Socrates. At the exit of this folder, Minister Pedro Marques, the late Minister Pedro Marques, leaves us an empty, empty investment folder, which is something we have not seen for more than ten years at this level, empty trains, which promises from here two governments, empty hospitals, empty infrastructures. In short, the Minister of Infrastructure has not fulfilled his mandate and we are in the last year. But we have come here, on this point which is recorded by the Socialist Party, that the issue of bottleneck is not an important issue for Portugal — and we will remember that — all that Mr Minister has said so far had no interest in it, but it is important for us. Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to bring here a clear answer about what will happen to Portuguese goods and passengers when they move to Spain. Are the large Spanish railway axes or are they not being built in European celery? Who are you lying to? They're lying to us or to the Portuguese? That's the answer I'd like to get. I still leave this question: is there a danger of the relocation of Portuguese companies to Spanish logistics platforms, closer to international corridors? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u49	Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block, is responsible for requesting clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, I do not speak by Minister Pedro Marques but, probably, Minister Pedro Marques did not come to this debate because the theme that the PSD has chosen is a little enigmatic.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u51	What an excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u52	To discuss a topic called railway bottleneck, Mr. Carlos Silva, is, in fact, an enigma, because the bottle is the distance between lanes and that is, let's say, a technical feature of a railway network. If Mr Carlos Silva wants to discuss the national rail network, for example, this is a subject that deserves a more comprehensive and detailed approach.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u53	For the week we're going to discuss the voltage!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u54	To discuss the bottle, Mr. Carlos Silva? Oh, my God! Do you know how many rail bikes there are in the country? I answer you: there are three cocks, Mr Carlos Silva, three! There is the metric bitola, there is the Iberian bitola and there is the standard international bitola...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u55	And there's more!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u56	And there are more, yes, but in terms of railway are these that exist in Portugal. But this is not a controversial issue. What is questionable is the use of the rail network for the various purposes to which we intend to arrive. And from this point of view, if Mr Carlos Silva needs to discuss the South International Corridor for the Trans-European Transport Network — that is already a subject worth discussing — Mr Silva, I would like to ask you one thing: when Minister Pedro Marques was here last week to discuss the National Investment Programme 2030, why does Mr Carlos Silva not ask you these questions that you are now raising in relation to the North/South International Corridor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u57	Because I didn't get a chance!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u58	I didn't bring the metric tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u59	But where did we come from? This isn't Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u60	Therefore, Mr Carlos Silva, the enigma of your debate seems to be an issue which is perhaps influencing by a certain disorientation of the motto itself with which the PSD addresses the parliamentary debates here until the end of this legislature, because it is a bit disorientated on this matter. With regard to what Mr. Infrastructure Secretary said, the problem of this government is not to announce various investment projects in the rail network, it is not to announce investment intentions for the future. Mr. Secretary of State, the problem of this government is to execute what it announces. The Government has established an assessment category of this implementation capacity on the basis of a new indicator which Mr. Secretary of State has indicated, namely that there is 40 % of the railway 2020 investment plan in conclusion or implementation. Now, this covers everything, Mr. Secretary of State! For example, a project of a network, a railway line, is already the beginning of the phase of execution of a project and therefore when the Secretary of State says that it is 40 % executed or in execution means that it covers everything and does not cover anything. Indeed, Mr Secretary of State, it is or is not true that the 2020 Railway Plan is two years behind — two years behind! — in the implementation of the various projects? Oh, my God! There are projects that at this time should be ready and are still under construction. For example, the piece of Caíde / Marco de Canaveses, on the Douro Line, should have been ready since last year—ready! — and is still in operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u61	You would like to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u62	What Mr. Secretary of State said is an attempt to cover the sun with the sieve, but it is not true that this may happen. Only in dreams is that this hypothesis can be realized. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u63	In response to requests for clarification, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Guilherme d’Oliveira Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I repeat that, when we talk about rail investment, we find that this demonstrates a de-investment and abandonment of the railway by previous governments in recent years, I abandon that which is currently being fully recovered. We are talking about work in execution, work in the field. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even with regard to the question of Aveiro / Salamanca, the PNI ( National Investment Programme ) includes the presentation of the new candidacy for the construction of this Aveiro / Mangualde corridor and what is interesting is to look at the work in its entirety. We are talking about a EUR 2000 million plan, I repeat, and it is running 40 %. If I wanted to say it's virtual, I'd be telling you that it was 100% running, which is not the case, but 40% is working...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u65	There's no work on it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u66	...and it doesn't count on the project. The issue of the bottle is very clear: 87 % of the Spanish network, i.e. 10 500 km, is in Iberian. The Spanish railway network is 12,000 km. All investment in Portugal can only be done in close coordination with Spain, otherwise we would be on a railway island and that is what we cannot afford. And more: when we talk about rail investment, we cannot deny that in the future we are prepared, in close cooperation with Spain — I repeat, in close cooperation with Spain — to migrate the bottle, but at the moment it would be totally irresponsible to take up a work of rail investment on a bottle which, at this time, to Portugal is a mirage, under the penalty of being on a railway island. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u67	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has scheduled today to discuss the issue of rail cockola. He did it with all the property, but his opportunity still remains without understanding. Therefore, we have many doubts about the real objectives of the PSD in this schedule. Is the PSD concerned about the serious problem of the Portuguese railway that affects the ability to respond to the mobility needs of passengers or goods beyond and beyond the Pyrenees? Don't! We don't think so! And we do not believe that because, today, there are technological solutions to overcome this problem. It is true that the Greens do not exclude the change in the bottle from being prepared in a coordinated manner, in a temporary way, with our Spanish neighbours. And why? Because moving on alone would be wasting investment and creating a new problem on the border with Spain. So we argue that all the new lines, such as the Sines / Caia Line, for example, should already be prepared for this eventuality, but let's stay around here by the new lines. And let us stay here because, in the Greens' perspective, this is not the whole priority for which we should channel the investment needed to modernise the Portuguese rail network, either for the sake of the transport of goods or for the sake of passenger transport. All the more so than moving forward with the European bottle would require not only investment in infrastructure but also in rolling material, which would have to be all adapted to this new width of rail, all at enormous cost, when the rail sector calls for investments in almost all areas. No, for the Greens, this is not the central concern and priority for rail, but we understand that, for those who have led the privatisation of the public sector of freight transport in Portugal and welcomed the decision to liberalise/ privatize passenger transport at European level, priorities are different and this issue can be put as relevant. What we do not want is that the needle is turned to the European bottle and the concerns stop turning around mobility to turn around the preparation of the road or ways to facilitate the entry of private passenger transport operators in Portugal. Not that they cannot do it today, because from a technical point of view, nothing prevents them. In fact, on the two railway borders of the Pyrenees where the canoes, one in the Basque Country and the other in Catalonia, the adaptation of the axles of the wagons has been practiced for many years and allows the passage of passenger trains and goods from one bottle to the other in a semi-automated operation. Moreover, this passage will be even easier, from a technological point of view, with the introduction of the telescopic axis, which allows to automatically adapt each wagon to this change. The difference, the big difference, is in who bear the costs of this operation. If we change the bottle, we are faced with infrastructure works whose costs are fully borne by the State, owner of the infrastructure, but the benefits will be—of course! — for operators, in particular for private persons, in the framework of liberalisation which they want or wish to guarantee in the service beyond and beyond borders. As for the adaptation of the axes, this is done directly in the circulating material, then by the operators and therefore costed by them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u69	At what cost?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u70	If operators are deprived and want to cross the Pyrenees more quickly they will naturally have to bear the costs of this investment. Now, when we get to this station, it seems to us that the interest and objectives of the PSD with the scheduling of this debate are thus made clear. That is, as in health, and in other areas, also in the railroad, the PSD bottle is the same: concern with the great private interests. But, The Greens, they won't catch this train. We will continue to defend the railway and everything to ensure that the priority of investment in rail infrastructure is channelled to promote more mobility of passengers and goods, particularly within the country, where, moreover, the PSD/Cavaco Silva government and then the PS/Scrats government have closed lines everywhere, leaving these areas of the country and its populations to the abandonment and margins of development. It will not be surprising, therefore, that the Greens continue to complain and demand the construction of the branch of Portalegre, the reactivation of the Corgo Line, the reopening of the Douro Line to Spain, the creation of a branch of goods on the Sines Line / Caia, in Évora and in the marble area. These are our stations, these are our priority cylinders and we will not make the chorus of the European Bitola peditorial as a priority. They do not count on us because we will not catch this train; our train is not the train of great private interests, but rather the train of investment in rail infrastructure and the promotion of more mobility for passengers and goods. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u71	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It became clear that, after a simple question asked by me, also asked a little more nonsense by the Socialist Party, we do not know whether the only line of such the greatest investment of the century is for passengers or is for goods and passengers. Mr Secretary of State was unable to answer a question as simple as this: is it only for goods or is it for goods and passengers? And a government that cannot answer a question as simple as this, which is strategic for the country, says everything about the strategic view on this matter. I ask again: I do not understand why Portugal will choose to be a railway island but, more serious than that, a technological island, since technology, whether on the axis or on the road, is only from Spain and from a few European countries, particularly from Poland. So I'm not talking about the whole national railway plan, I'm talking about the trans-European transport networks, the so-called European facilities, which have Community support. In other words, the Government has Community support, Europe is required, Europe has questions why the country is slowing down on these railways and even, in the various measures to internationalise the Portuguese economy or in the reformulation or large plan of innovation of ports, which is contained in the Government's own programme, the link of ports to railways. If it is only to reach Badajoz, why is the importance of imports/exports in rail terms in the Government Programme? So I wonder why the country does not now make an investment and an effort only on these two lines, for passengers and goods, for trains with routes of more than 750 km, as Spain is doing, reducing dependence and including the ecological footprint,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u73	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u74	... why do these materials cost much less in environmental terms? I would like to ask why we do not take advantage of dry ports, airports, railways, highways, doing what is already done in Spain, railways, which is with one container, one transport module, intermobility, interoperability and intramodality?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u75	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u76	I conclude, Mr President, saying that it is true that the Government has the 2020 railway plan, they are only RIV ( integral road renewals ), mostly.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u77	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u78	It has little new work, it has little planning and the CDS considers it a strategic error not to weigh a solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u79	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u80	... compatible with European commitments and in line with what is being done in Europe and Spain. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u81	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In spite of everything, it is always worth remembering, until the people who are listening to us have the notion, that a debate today, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, is that agenda which is made more quickly, for issues of particular urgency, for issues that cannot wait for the next agenda at the Conference of Leaders, which cannot wait for the next meeting of the parliamentary committee, in which a debate of today must be held quickly. And here, then, we had the PSD to schedule for now a current debate in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic on the problem of rail cockola, which at first left us with some perplexity and we remained with the following undisturbed question: then did not the PSD definitely close the railway lines? The PSD which has banned railway companies by law from accepting personnel, deliberately causing a demanding shortage of workers in all areas? The PSD which, in four years, cut close to 30 % of EMEF’s assets — Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, S.A., placing the company with less than 1000 workers for the first time in its history? Oh, my God! The PSD which imposed in the sector a sort of exception regime in which each piece acquired, each piece repaired, became a bureaucratic calvary with requests for authorization to the government and unbearable delays for daily intervention? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u83	You've forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u84	The PSD that led to unprecedented destabilization in the sector with the abrupt fusion of the REFER with the EP, with the privatization of CP Cargo, which delivered the national railway of goods to abroad? Oh, my God! Is this the PSD now reminded of the urgent need to mark a debate in plenary, in the Assembly of the Republic, then on what is the favorite theme of multinationals? at first, we got a little weird, but we quickly got an obvious conclusion: this is not even more than the PSD to be PSD. When we are confronted with the evidence of the situation of the national rail network, with the situation of the transport of goods, particularly on the rail of goods in our country, their interaction in the iberian context and in the more general logistical context, in the Iberian and European level, we have heard the PSD respond in a simple way: the PSD that does not disarm and resolve, in a penalty, that the Iberian bottle is for a national network and the European bottleneck for international corridors. This makes everything even more interesting, because we then have two railway networks, two fleets of circulating material, one for the national railway and one for the multinationals. Here again we have the brilliant and pioneering solution that the PSD wants to propose to the country! Mrs. Members, these discussions cannot be made lightly or lightly, but with rigour or, at least, with some knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u85	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u86	Do you not know that for years we had weekly connections between Palmela and Germany on freight rail and that this connection had no problem with the change of boxes from bogie to bogie, that the problem was precisely in the lack of time channel space, particularly in the corridor from the Pyrenees, just in France where the bottle was no longer a problem? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] So, the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen do not know that it is no longer this month or the previous month that there is a regular international, rail, freight connection, calling—see there! — China in Spain? And if you get to Spain you could get here, because the bottle is the same as in Spain and there are four changes in the transcontinental connection that occurs regularly. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, I would also like to remind the Secretary of State not to forget and bear in mind that the problem of rail freight transport in Portugal is, above all, the lack of reliability and regularity of transport. The problem is not the rail transport of goods to get faster, it is to know what time it is coming. This is why companies need to count, with the regularity and reliability that they do not have substantially today, to a large extent due to the de-investment and degradation that also the PSD and the CDS have contributed to aggravating in an undisturbed way. The slowdowns, bans, line closures, the problem of the lack of capacity of the national rail network, even due to its obsolescence due to lack of investment, is what makes a freight train unable to have reliability and regularity so that customers themselves know exactly when it will arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u87	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u88	That's what the ladies are talking about. Members really needed to understand. Mr President, in order to finish, however, it is worthy of registration, and this note has to be made, the following: that at a time when there are no problems, unfortunately, in the Portuguese railway, at a time when people are unable to enter trains at the point of time because there are suppressions, the problem that the PSD encounters, with the utmost urgency, is the railway cockola. It's all said, Mr. President! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u89	Mr Heitor de Sousa, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, just to conclude our statement on this matter, I cannot fail to comment on Mr Hélder Amaral's statement...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u91	Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u92	... on the Railway 2020 programme and on the mysterious question about the primary function of the railway line that is being built between Sines and Badajoz or Caia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u93	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u94	Mr. Hélder Amaral, the project that is at the railway 2020...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u95	I asked the government, but now say there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u96	...is strictly the same as in PETI3 +. It doesn't matter! And you know the answer to your question, because you were part of a government that approved this 'great' idea! ...A pilgrimage idea of wanting to make a railway line only for goods, when, in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u97	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u98	...the railway lines have always historically been of mixed transport of passengers and goods. This does not exist in a poor country, as is the Portuguese case!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u99	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u100	I conclude, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr Hélder Amaral, the answer is in the Railway 2020 programme. It is, in fact, a line aimed at the transport of goods, but which, of course, will also serve the transport of passengers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u101	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The PSD has found an argument on the theme of the bitola to make an actual debate, but, in fact, as we have seen here, what the PSD really wanted was to make a party rally, with everything that this represents at the time we are. And that was very clear with Mr Carlos Silva's statement. The second note I wanted to give is that the history of the Iberian bottle is somehow confused with the history of this debate. Like the ladies. Members know — I know you know — the Iberian bottle comes up because some Spanish engineers found that, at the time of the steam trains, the ideal was to have large furnaces so they could climb ramps and mountains. So they thought about a bigger bottle. Well, it was an error of analysis. History has shown that it was an error of analysis.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u103	Don't even know the story!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u104	With this debate the same thing happened: you made a mistake of analysis. Today, like the others. We all know — and we all know — technology evolves in such a way that this is a non-question. Mr. Secretary of State and some Members have explained that today there is technology in order to be able to exist bivetola, as you know,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u105	In Portugal and Spain? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u106	...and there's no problem, unlike what you put on the table. That was very clear in this debate! Another question I would like to raise concerns the following: Mr Hélder Amaral has hidden what is really essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u107	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u108	And what is really essential — and Mr Bruno Dias said - very clearly - is that what you are defending is not a rail network, there are two,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u109	You have to read the deal with the Spanish government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u110	... with the simple question that the second railway network they want to build, as was clear in the hearing with that pressure group of the entrepreneur Henrique Neto, costs only EUR 15 billion. Mr, EUR 15 billion is nearly the entire national investment plan!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u111	Mr. Deputy, please finish if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u112	What is at stake is that the country has an investment plan for the railway and this plan does not create an island in Portugal, quite the contrary, technology allows to solve this issue and the investments on the table already allow that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u113	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking all the criticisms for the opportunity of this debate, because the criticisms themselves clearly show the awkwardness of the topic. This is not an urgent debate, unlike what Mr Bruno Dias meant, it is a debate today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u116	It's fractured!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u117	It is a debate today because it actually has an impact on a subject on which we have been listening to a number of experts over the past few weeks here in Parliament. But it seems to me that you are. Members of the other parties go to the meetings, question the experts and, when they leave the room, forget what they heard. The present is right there! In 2012, Portugal and Spain signed a convention for this line that is now on the ground, which links Sines to Europe, to be made in European logo. And not so, it was an option of this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u119	I wouldn't be worried if our neighbors weren't doing what was closed in 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u120	It was such a Lisbon-Madrid TGV!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u121	It is that they are bringing their line to our European border, in a European bitola, and for some reason are already built, or at the conclusion stage, three major logistics platforms—in Vigo, Salamanca and Badajoz—to welcome for the time necessary the goods of our companies, which create jobs and wealth, while not being transported to the rest of Europe. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u122	And the gentlemen. Members and the government continue with the « head in the sand », realizing that this is not happening out there. It's an option for you, but it only blames you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u123	It's a historic mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u124	Our interest in this debate was precisely to raise this issue, which deserves a reflection by everyone, because yesterday's and today's decisions condition the future. And the future is this: this is what is being done in the country next door, with the explicit use of logistics platforms, paying our exports. But you, I repeat, put the « head in the sand». The problem is yours, and it would not be serious if it were just yours, but it is very serious because it has to do with the whole future of our country and our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u125	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u126	That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, take the ‘head of the sand’ and look at what our neighbours are doing because they are on the right track and we are insulating ourselves, turning Portugal into a railway island. This is not important for you, but for us, it is very important, because what is at stake for the Portuguese is the future of our economy. You should take off the ‘head of the sand’, look, hear and see what you are doing! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u127	Mrs. Members, we have thus closed the current debate required by the PSD on rail gauge. We are now considering, in general, the Proposal for a Law No 173 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — regulates the operation of unmanned civil aircraft systems ( drones) in national airspace. To begin this debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiative currently under discussion regulates the use of unmanned aircraft, common drones, and does so by complementing the national legislation already adopted, laying down rules for civil liability insurance on the use of this type of unmanned vehicles, and following European regulations which assign States the responsibility to regulate, in their own framework, the use of drones, in a public security vision, in respect of privacy and data protection rules. The use of drones is far beyond the one that is your risk in surrounding areas of airports. The use of drones is an area with great potential for the development of national science and technology, where we have high value added industry that investigates and produces such devices, and it is essential for the promotion of tourism, for the use of Portuguese space in cinematography and to anticipate new forms of trade or leisure. Therefore, this diploma deals with the use of drones in its technological dimension, in its security dimension and based on the need to establish own regimes for free use areas, in areas of conditional use subject to authorization, or in areas such as the Assembly of the Republic, and its surrounding, or other sovereign bodies, where it will not be possible to use them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u129	That's settled! It's not possible anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u130	The mechanisms for enabling operators, monitoring and sanctioning systems are thus established, allowing knowledge to be developed and promoting the use of such vehicles, safeguarding privacy and security and ensuring a framework that puts us at the level of the countries that have, in a more advanced way, promoted the use of such equipment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u131	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u132	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : I confess that I do not know where to start, but I will try to make a logical reasoning. What do we already have to do with legislation on this matter at the moment? Article 8. that of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, best known by the Chicago Convention, approved by the Portuguese State by Decree-Law No 36 158 of 17 February 1947 ; Implementing Regulation ( EU ) No 923/2012 of 26 September 2012 on the organisation of airspace; Decree-Law No 58/2018, which this Government of which you are part of has just approved; and the Regulation of the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ), also approved by your Government. In fact, they are right: only civil liability insurance is lacking, because licensing, compulsory registration and the platform already exist and only the absence of government passports has caused the insurance not yet to be made. And what Article 4 says. the one of that Decree-Law? It says it is mandatory to have the registration, where the serial number should be included, the identification of the manufacturer, the brand and model of the unmanned aircraft, the maximum operational mass, the number of engines, the type of population, finally, would be here 10 minutes reading everything in the law. Obviously, the Government has produced legislation on unmanned aircraft in due course on the operator and pilot such as EFSA ( European Aviation Safety Agency ) and European legislation identify and oblige. Moreover, the European Union is preparing to have legislation on this subject in accordance with all countries. I could even say « good, the legislation makes sense, the Minister of Internal Administration is right », but when I see the opinion of ANAC I see that ANAC has « the greatest reservations as to the merit and relevance of the approval of that legislative initiative ». And I'm not even going to read what the regulator himself said about your initiative, Mr Minister. At a certain point in the initiative presented here is referred to the National Civil Aviation Agency. Mr. Minister, there is no longer the National Civil Aviation Agency! The acronym ANAC means National Civil Aviation Authority, not Agency. Of two, one : either your Ministry will create a new agency—and you have to respond to this—or I mean Authority instead of Agency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u133	It's a travel agency! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u134	It is that ANAC is part of the framework law of the authorities, in which the former INAC ( National Civil Aviation Institute ) passed to ANAC. In addition, the Government refers all the legislation it provides us here to the National Civil Aviation Authority itself, which has already made legislation, which already protects a set of obligations. Mr Minister, I confess that what brings us here today is redundant, because, as I said, there is already legislation, and it is cheating, because, in the legislation that Mr Minister brings here, it is more restrictive to operate drones than to walk with a Cessna or another plane walking through the country. It doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u135	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u136	I shall finish, Mr President, but not without mentioning a part that is important. It is that this initiative, Minister, is also contradictory because, if you look at your Article 10. it can be read that it is mandatory to request permission to operate a drone, but if, with the same drone, the same operator and the same pilot want to perform a cinematographic operation, it is sufficient to make a previous communication, 48 hours in advance. In other words, is the drone or the use that is given to it more important? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, please clarify these questions, under the terms of the CDS, you cannot follow up on your initiative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u137	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u138	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we discuss the Bill No 173 / XIII / 4. a, of the Government, which intends to regulate the operation and monitoring of unmanned aircraft systems, commonly designated by drones, in national airspace. The application of drones in virtually all areas of society and the economy is inevitable. It is a technology that will enhance new professions and stay at the service of areas such as security, strategic surveillance, fire fighting, agriculture, civil protection, maritime protection, among many others, and not just the play area. This bill is subject to many criticisms and is even considered a perfect legal aberration that will create serious problems for the Portuguese State, given its negative impact. Security problems are not solved with excessive regulation but with the implementation of technological devices capable of preventing the overflight of drones in certain areas. With the approval of this proposal, we will leave the Lisbon airport unprotected for drones. Question : Will the Assembly of the Republic want to take on this burden? This proposal, in accordance with the National Data Protection Commission, does not comply with European data protection legislation. In addition, the Portuguese Government has also not consulted the National Civil Aviation Authority, which is responsible for national airspace, nor has it dealt with the European Commission, especially the legislation on air space accessible to drones, which is being concluded and which will also have to be respected by Portugal. On the other hand, the Government has not heard the live forces of the sector, in particular the APDRONE ( Association of Pilots and Operators of Non-Tipulated Vehicles ) and the APANT ( Portuguese Association of Non-Tipulated Aeronaves ), and not even the compulsory registration, approved six months ago by the Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure, is in force. Comparing this bill with the ultralevous legal regime, it is possible to say that it is easier to fly an ultralevous than a drone. For example, I can fly an ultraleve from Coimbra to Évora without needing authorization, but in the case of drones, I can be in the middle of Alentejo and need authorization from landowners or ANAC. This bill continues to have too restrictive standards regarding the capture and dissemination of images. It is appropriate to ask whether the same concern exists with mobile phones, through which, at present, everyone is able to capture images and sounds. The proposed law provides for a set of prior authorisations, communications and submission of flight plans which are not parallel to the current rules applicable to the civil aviation sector or to future European drone regulations. This proposal also does not provide for approval, an important and fundamental factor relating to appliances. in this sense, it appears early to adopt a proposal for a non-aligned law of the future and next European, restrictive and disproportionate regulation, supported by alleged concerns or threats of a security nature, leaving it applicable in the short term in view of the principle of the primacy of European Union law.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u139	Mr President, I would like to ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u140	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that it is appropriate to ask: three years for this, Minister? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u141	The next intervention is for Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Internal Administration, Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration : We have already expressed our difficulty in understanding the proposed law governing the operation and monitoring of unmanned aircraft systems. We cannot ignore existing legislation, either Regulation No 1093 / 2016, already mentioned here, or Decree-Law No 58 / 2018, and the question arises is what this initiative is about again. In our view, it is wrong — because it puts all categories of unmanned aircraft on the same footing, without any differentiation, to improve the supervision with regard to fines and counter-ordinations applied to those who do not comply with the law, but then Mr Minister, it is only a set of 'noises', allow me to express myself. First, move on the use of airspace. Today, we have Regulation No 1093 / 2016, which is consensual, which has not caused problems in the sector, which has already defined, by way of georeference, the areas where drones cannot operate and therefore there is no such problem. What does this bill do? It goes into deep contradiction, changes the paradigm and, instead of saying what are the areas where use is not possible, it says that free use areas are created by the authorities or regions, and the general ban on the use of airspace is a rule. Now, this makes no sense, when Regulation No 1093 / 2016 has not offered a challenge by who has law and who perceives this matter. Then the Government submits this bill without regulating Decree-Law No 58 / 2018, which is something that is not understood. The Law Decree stipulates the rules of registration and insurance, but there is nothing about it, because there is no regulation. The « cherry at the top of the cake » of this initiative is that in its end we are referred to a 1958 legislation on the capture of images in airspace. Now, Minister, this is completely ridiculous! It doesn't make any sense, because, according to the 1958 legislation, anyone who is on an aircraft and takes a picture with his phone has a counter-ordering process and can be given a call to the pilot of that aircraft because he committed a crime. It is for this legislation that the Government refers! We are talking about a new technology and refer us to a legislation of 1958! Minister, this doesn't make any sense! The important thing here, Minister, is not to solve the problems by means of the paper, because the paper supports everything. And it is curious that ANAC says two things that are fundamental, the first of which is that it was neither taken nor found in this process, which is unacceptable. It says the National Civil Aviation Authority who was aware of the introduction of the bill, but who was neither taken nor found in this process. That's what's on the paper! Mr. Minister can say no, but that's what's on the paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u144	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u145	I will finish, Mr. President. The second thing that ANAC raises, in its opinion, in addition to reservations, is that security issues are not solved by legislation but, rather, by the imposition of physical means that effectively prevent the misuse of airspace.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u146	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u147	In conclusion, I ask you, Minister, what measures you have taken, from an operational point of view, to acquire the means to prevent the use of drones in space where they cannot be used. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u148	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Heitor de Sousa, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u149	Mr. President, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Mr. Members: Our assessment of this issue introduced by the Government's bill is a little similar to that of the railway bill. It is because the Minister here defends a bill in which the two expressly mentioned entities are considered as entities contributing to the definition of certain articles of the diploma itself, saying that they should necessarily be consulted in advance, but the fact is that they have not been consulted. This is a little weird! Normally, Mr Minister, in a bill, the Government, at the last stage of the preamble, identifies the entities that have been consulted and the opinions that have been issued. And in fact, Mr Minister may say that they have been consulted, but in the preamble to the bill there is no single reference to the National Aeronautic Authority ( AAN ), ANAC, CNPD and other entities that are also involved in the definition of natural protection spaces and other spaces that have to do with the activity of these unmanned aircraft. Therefore, Mr Minister, it is somewhat incomprehensible that, in view of the negative opinions of the National Data Protection Commission, which makes a number of concrete proposals for the amendment of the proposed law which is on the table, in the face of the absolutely negative opinion - I would say that the ANAC has to say that in relation to this initiative, the Government seems to insist on raising against 'wind mills' and not even paying attention to regulatory entities, which are closer to some of these areas that have problems and that cannot, of course, be ignored on behalf of an emergency that no one perceives. As has been said here, and well, Decree-Law No 58/2018 requires a regulatory portal that has not yet been published, thus having a part of the legislative building on this subject that needs to be completed. However, the Government ignores this issue and is already moving towards a bill that tries to meet some gaps in Decree-Law No 58 / 2018. We do not question the need for this to be done, however it is better that it is done with head, trunk and members, instead of starting for a anticipation that can then be dangerous, especially if the bill is approved as presented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u150	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u151	Therefore, Mr Minister, I hope that common sense still exists in this government and that therefore the Government will take the initiative to propose that this diploma be brought down to committee without a vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u152	The next intervention lies with Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u153	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr.a and Mr. State Secretaries, Mr.as and Mrs. Members: The use of unmanned aircraft, commonly referred to as drones, is an important technological advance, allowing it to be used either for playful purposes or for professional purposes. Expanding its use has made it possible to make a set of industries more efficient and the development and efficiency of some economic activities. This technological innovation presents disruptive characteristics, breaking past behaviors from a technological point of view. It is in this context that, without jeopardizing innovation, clear legislation is needed and everyone understands in order to respond to the risks associated with it. There are known situations in which drones have called into question the security of people and goods or privacy. It is also important, among other matters, to look after issues of sovereignty. thus, and following the broad debate at European level, the government, after a public trial, decided, and well, to present this bill. We recall that the lack of regulation and delays in European legislation had already led the sector regulator to present in 2016 a set of regulations, as well as the Government to present in 2018 a decree on this subject. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the application of the mechanisms provided for in the Road Code to the use of unmanned aircraft under the effect of alcohol or narcotics, as well as the need for its operator to be more than 16 years old, except in the form referred to as ‘toy aircraft’, i.e. with a mass of less than 250 g and which may not exceed 30 m above the surface. This legislation also goes in the right way by providing for specific areas for the operation of unmanned aircraft, where their use can be freely carried out, as well as the conditions for their use in other areas, in particular those which do not have ANAC authorisation, and prohibited areas, including sovereignty bodies, embassies, consular representations, military facilities, prison services, educational centres and other central infrastructure. in this legislation, the National Civil Aviation Authority has created a mandatory registration platform for drones with more than 250 g, and its mandatory declaration. I even use the content of this debate to question the government whether or not the sector regulator has been heard and questioned about this legislation. At the conclusion of this debate, we can point out that this is legislation that is in the right direction in regulating this phenomenon. We believe that these issues raise issues of security, privacy and sovereignty, and therefore must be consensual to all parliamentary groups, accepting, of course, the normal debate on improving the legislation itself at work. It is in this context that the Socialist Party will be in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u154	You now have the floor to close the debate on behalf of the Government, the Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much for the contributions you have made here and I hope that they will be reviewed in the field of expertise. I understand the complexity of this matter, but I would like you to. Members read not only the opinion of the ANAC but also the legislation for which the opinion of the ANAC refers, because it refers, in particular to Article 56 ( 8 ) thereof. that this Regulation (...) does not prejudice the possibility of Member States to lay down national rules to subject to certain conditions the operations of unmanned aircraft (... ) for reasons of public safety, protection of privacy and personal data in accordance with the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u156	This is in Decree-Law No 58 / 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u157	Mr. Hélder Amaral, have you read the opinion of ANAC? I am sorry to say, but we have held more than 15 meetings on this subject and Mr Anac was present at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u158	That's not what you're looking at! Someone's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u159	Mr President of ANAC referred the opinion to us and contributed to the drafting of this bill. We therefore have the opinion of ANAC and Mr President of ANAC was present at all meetings on this subject. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that you have not consulted ANAC, and Mr President of ANAC, if you wish, that you have publicly denied it. It is said that the European Union has not been consulted either because we have consulted the European Union. And so much we have consulted the European Union that all Member States have said that they are not available to await European Union legislation on this matter and they are all legislating, in national terms, because European legislation on this matter takes time. That is what the European countries are doing, as we are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u160	There is no party that does more than the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u161	I also advise you. Members to read the very technical note drawn up by the services of this House, which reflects what comes to mind in the opinion of ANAC, saying that the legislation that you have just mentioned refers only to aircraft...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u162	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u163	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, I advise you. Members to read the technical note of this House, which reflects the opinion of ANAC, saying that the legislation that you have just cited refers only to unmanned aircraft weighing less than 150 kg,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u164	More than 150 kg, only military!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u165	... and that the others should be regulated at national level. That's what this diploma does.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u166	And the means to fight, if necessary, isn't there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u167	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful that this initiative goes down to the committee, as you have grasped the opinion of ANAC. And they should have asked Mr. President of ANAC whether or not he was present at the meetings, because he was in all of them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u168	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u169	... and the honourable Member should also read the technical note drawn up by the House's own services which deny it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u170	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, we have thus concluded the general debate on Bill No 173 / XIII / 4. a. Let us now proceed to the general assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 174 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Reforms and expands the Information System of the State Organization ( SIOE ). To present the initiative of the Government, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To know with rigour the institutional reality of the State, its size and organization and the concrete data on its human resources is essential to define policies for public administration. The current Information System of the State Organization, SIOE, already contributes to this knowledge, but aggregately and with quarterly update. To address the gaps in information necessary for decision-making in a number of areas, the proposal now presented by the Government aims to reform and expand the current SIOE, in order to obtain more sustained data that support statistical analyses and technical studies that contribute to a better definition, monitoring and evaluation of policies for Public Administration. This evolution of SIOE will have a very significant set of benefits, which I would like to point out briefly seven. First: to concentrate on a single system all information relating to the characterization of public employment and the entities that integrate the public sector universe into national accounts. Secondly, to collect information similar to that already provided in electronic format by employers covered by the Labour Code, which will allow consistency to be given to national human resources statistics. Third: simplify, improve and expedite data collection, not paying public entities with multiple reporting obligations. Fourth: to meet the needs of specific information on the public sector, within the scope of labour market statistics for various institutions and decision-making groups. Fifth: to conclude protocols for access to information, to the extent strictly necessary for the fulfilment of the mission of each entity. Sixth : automatically generate reports, in particular for the purpose of carrying out legal reporting duties. Seventh : have data that allow in-depth analysis, based on various variables of public employment characterization, only possible with individual data of workers after their « pseudonymisation ». Finally: to know with rigour the capabilities and skills installed in the Administration, in order to enhance its full use. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this transformation of the SIOE, the State will once again have a repository of individual data of its workers, which are necessary to respond to information needs. in this context, the SIOE will strengthen the essential guarantees of confidentiality in the processing of personal data, in line with the General Data Protection Regulation. Overcoming the constraints currently evidenced and which have already been fully identified, in particular by the General Finance Inspection, the new EIOE will contribute to the obtaining of quality information, avoiding the use of obsolete tools and the generation of administrative charges in this process. It will thus contribute to promoting the modernisation of public administration, one of the central axes of this government, allowing for the design and implementation of informed, inclusive policies in line with the needs and capacities of the country and that develop in permanent the Public Administration of the present and the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u172	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Conceição Ruão.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State: To talk about the new SIOE is to call us all to remind us of the contribution that the previous Government has made to this platform. In fact, with very complex and reliable reporting obligations, it was he who added and classified public entities and brought them together, in the view of national accounts, on this platform. The Government itself recognises this contribution and, on the basis of its reasoning, notes that the SIOE has enriched the information collected on public employment and has been an essential measure for the treatment and definition of public policies. But, Madam Secretary of State, we are going to deal with specific issues. Today's SIOE contains, or will contain, personal and professional identifications of administrative workers, far beyond the professional data and number of entities, which will be made available on a platform for the European Union and the countries of the European Union. The first question I would like to ask you is: what are the exact measures already identified for the benefit of national citizens in the European area as regards access to this platform by European entities and other Member States? The second question has to do with the security of this mega-database and the security issues that are obvious today. The question I wanted to leave, in terms of cybersecurity, is this: to what extent is the DGAEP (General Directorate for Administration and Public Employment) and the managing entity of the shared resources platform of the Public Administration in line with and in cooperation with the entities dealing with cybersecurity in this country? The other issue that the PSD wants to see excluded at all, in view of the potentials of the SIOE, is the possibility of centralised conduct of public procurement for staff recruitment. Madam Secretary of State, is the Government in a position to ensure that the autonomy of different entities, at central, regional and, in particular, local level, will not be challenged when we are at a stage of accession to the transfer of competence to municipalities? Can they be confronted with national competitions to fill their vacancies and work needs? Finally, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you the following: depending on the implementation and implementation of the new SIOE of three gates, three offices on matters relevant and essential for its implementation and data preservation, what is the government's expectation, in terms of the end of the legislature, to be able to see this initiative still approved and implemented? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u174	at this moment, the Bureau does not record requests for the use of the word, so we expect that, as soon as possible, this lack will be filled. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u175	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The proposal which we are discussing today aims to extend the scope of the information collected in the Information System of the State Organization, which was a proposal brought to the Assembly of the Republic in 2011, which had the votes in favour of all other parliamentary groups and the abstention of the CFP. At the present time, the absence of the CFP was mainly due to the fact that by bringing this proposal to the Assembly of the Republic, the previous Government had not submitted to this House the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, which would have been important, taking into account the scope and subject matter that was being discussed. I say this because, in fact, the Information System of the State Organization has elements that force this care, taking into account the nature of what is being examined. We understand that the opinion that the National Data Protection Commission has sent to the Assembly of the Republic is relevant and makes recommendations that should be taken into account, even more so because, with regard to some of the subjects which the Government intends to collect, under this new system, we have some doubts that this makes sense, taking into account the specificity of these matters, such as the case of data such as the address or date of birth of employees of the Public Administration. That is why, the Secretary of State, we believe that the various recommendations — and they are about eight specific recommendations in this regard — should be taken into account. This is the case, for example, of the deletion of the list of personal data of the address and day of birth, due to their need, taking into account the purposes of this Information System of the State Organization. The opinion also points to the lack of reference to nationality in the nominal identification of workers and the densification of standards on certain matters in which the opinion points to a need for restriction of fundamental rights. We therefore believe that there are matters which are sensitive and for which this opinion should be taken into account. The Secretary of State has said this, and stating that the CFP is not going to oppose this diploma, which the Information System of the State Organization has already allowed us to conclude, over these eight years, that we have no more public servants, we have less public employees, we have low wages and we have workers with precarious links. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, what we want to say here is that this Information System of the State Organization is also useful for this, i.e. to make a diagnosis of the situation of workers in the Public Administration and to force the political options that we believe are fundamental, namely the valuation of wages of all employees of the Public Administration, accompanying the need to value wages also in private, the guarantee of the fulfilment of the right to career progression and the accounting of all careers in the Public Administration, and an effective fight against precariousness and the hiring of all professionals in need. If there is any merit in this Information System of the State Organization, which the former Government submitted to the Assembly of the Republic, it is precisely this, the Secretary of State, to demonstrate that the country needs public officials because there are no quality public services without valued, respected and fair wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u176	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u177	That is why, Madam Secretary of State, we will continue to follow these matters and to intervene in this regard. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u178	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State: The subject we are discussing today, although quite technical, is a relevant and important matter. What we are currently discussing is the Information System of the State Organization. What does that mean? It is the system that the State has, and all public administrations have, that allows it to know what bodies it has, what agents it has and what human resources it has, that are very important issues. This system was set up in 2011 and then changed in 2012 and, in fact, it is impossible to speak — and speak with feet and heads — about the definition of public policies and public policies with regard to public administrations, without knowing what bodies we are talking about, what entities we are talking about and what human resources we are talking about, what workers we are talking about. I therefore believe that this is a very serious, very real concern and that, often in Portugal — in fact, it is not only about the organization of the State — the State fails. If we think, for example, about the heritage and the capacity of the state and the administrations, whether the central or municipal, to identify their own heritage, we often see that the State is not able to fulfil this basic function of knowing what it manages, how it manages...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u181	...and how to manage. Clearly, in order to have good public policies, we need to know this, much more than to have statistical information. What the Secretary of State and the Government are proposing today is the introduction of amendments to the current system. According to what is said in the explanatory statement, in short, and what is also said by the National Data Protection Commission, there is the introduction of two amendments: one of them has to do with the scope, including much more bodies, namely sovereignty bodies, in this entire perimeter of public administrations and this mapping; another is a question related to the type of data that are processed, including personal data from workers. We can have more and more complete information for the CDS is positive. So, and because we have certain doubts, I leave a few questions. First, much is left for later, for the door and for the office. I should like to understand why, after all, the Secretary of State has been in government for more than three years, so I suppose it is more than time to have this matter well prepared. Secondly, the degree of detail of many of the data and the way they will be asked, leads me to ask whether or not we will have an increase in bureaucracy. Finally, I ask you how far you need to get to such personal data. These are the questions I leave and I would like to see answered. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u182	The next intervention lies with Mr Fernando Anastácio, of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We are today, indeed, before a proposal from the Government that intends to amend the Information System of the State Organization ( SIOE ), basically an important tool for the knowledge of the institutional reality of the State, which already has its merit, a space and a context that has made it possible to provide an extremely important set of information for analyses, particularly of public employment. However, we will all have the conviction that, despite the merits of this instrument, it no longer responds and is insufficient to formulate public policies in the context of data knowledge in public administrations. The Government, with this proposal, is then reforming and expanding this information system, basically touching on its quantitative and qualitative components with regard to its capabilities. List a set of goals. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of focusing on a single information system all information on the characterization of public employment; the possibility of collecting and treating, in a similar way among the whole public sector, national statistical information of relevance; the simplification, improvement, agility and collection of data, which can, of course, enhance synergies resulting from the existence of more accessible and likely to be worked; and also an aspect which I cannot but mention as important, the possibility of sharing this information, which, stored in a single repository, will also be an important contribution and, in this regard, I stress the implementation of the new budgetary framework law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to point out that it is no less important for groups of citizens, international organisations and, in particular, those responsible for national statistics, from which INE (National Institute of Statistics), with great statistical responsibilities, can thus have this information available and made available. The same applies to international bodies, from which I stress Eurostat, OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and ILO ( International Labour Organisation), for example, as well as researchers and academics and particularly — and I think this is extremely important — those responsible for monitoring public policies, because with this information they can improve their audit and monitoring services. This is an option that will bring unequivocal benefits, innovation and ensure interoperability with another information system. I would also like to leave a note, in particular, which is the guarantee of the protection of individual data, fully respecting the General Data Protection Regulation as regards the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data. On this matter we are alert and will be available to verify all the issues that arise.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u184	Sir, I wanted to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u185	I will finish, Mr. President. In the understanding of the PS Parliamentary Group, the approval of this proposal will enable us to gather information in an aggregate manner, thus achieving great gains in efficiency and effectiveness in the form found, making significant progress in the treatment and improvement of the public administration and the information made available. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u186	The next intervention is by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block generally follows the intentions of the Government's bill because, clearly, greater information about the state allows us to have greater capacity to make public policies more effective, but also allows us to have a better understanding of the concrete reality so that we can work on the quality of public employment. Therefore, from our point of view, any step taken in this direction is a positive step. We are not alone and only for statistics, because while other parliamentary groups seem to have the knowledge of the State as the only will to think about it but to exclude from this thought the rights of workers and workers of the State, we consider that this instrument is important to combat the precariousness still existing in the Public Administration to ensure that the rights of workers, such as the right to the time of service of their professional situations achieved in the Public Administration, must be clearly respected. Therefore, when we think of the State and public policies, this thought should not be excluded from the rights of the workers and workers of the Public Administration, who are them and them, with their dedication, who build the State in our country. For us, this is an important issue and, therefore, the Secretary of State, we want to tell you, our eyes, that we are not left on administrative matters, it is important for the Government to follow up on the fair demands of State workers and the negotiations which the Government has feared to protect or, often even to conclude in a wrong way. A second point that we would like to ask you is whether the Government is looking at, taking into account the openness it has expressed for the debate, in the speciality of this bill, to incorporate the relevant indications which the National Data Protection Commission has left in the opinion it sent to the Assembly of the Republic. We know that the Government will say, as Mr Prime Minister has often said — washing the hands of the debate, in particular, of the initiatives — which is the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic. We know this and, on our part, we will not fail to put on the table the question of the necessary protection of the personal data of the employees of the Public Administration ; however, on the part of the Government, we would also like to hear an opinion on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u188	The Bureau no longer requests for intervention. To close the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Fatima Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will try to sum up some comments that have been made about the set of questions raised. Firstly, the scope of this diploma is clear. We are referring to all entities which are defined by the INE for the purposes of the perimeter of the national accounts. The objectives of the diploma are articulated: they combine the need to obtain information for the definition of evidence-based policies with the simplification of procedures and strict protection of personal data. Otherwise, let us see: after the necessary developments have been made, if the Assembly of the Republic approves the proposal, the Government expects that data collection can be initiated in the second half of this year, and that the ports which are provided for in the diploma, and we seek to ensure that the diploma is correct and regulates only the essential and non-procedural matter — they will regulate strictly procedural matters and are, of course, being prepared so that, once we have developed the system and carry out our tests, we can enter full loading at cruise speed. With regard to the issues addressed by the National Data Protection Commission, I was able to say that the Government has accepted the generality of the recommendations issued in the Commission opinion and therefore data such as the address or date of birth are not already provided for in this version at the Assembly of the Republic. The Government will, of course, be careful to ensure that the information is not worked without the impact assessment being carried out before, so that the emerging risks of work on personal data can be assessed as the solution itself develops so that, at its own time, the risks identified, in a technically appropriate and legally robust manner, can be mitigated, in particular the most appropriate method to ensure the pseudo-animization of the data. thus, this system is, yes, an evolution of the SIOE in its format approved in 2011...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u190	Mr. Secretary of State, I asked you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u191	I'm done now, Mr. President. I just wanted to recall that the SIOE did not mark the beginning of the Public Administration databases in Portugal, since already in the late 1990s there was a system containing some personal data, which were very important to characterize the Public Administration. In conclusion, this system will be a key pillar in the management of Public Administration. It will constitute the technically appropriate support for the formulation, monitoring and evaluation of human resources policies and public employment, evidence-based policies, as I mentioned, for this more robust, sustainable reason because it is based on exhaustive and not merely statistical diagnoses, diagnoses that support clear political options. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the third point of our agenda. The fourth point consists of the debate of draft resolution No 1965 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP, PSD, PS and BE ) — Establishment of the Second Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the management of the bank. To begin the debate, Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last decade, Portuguese have repeatedly been called upon to have to cover holes in the financial sector and, with the money of their taxes, to cover these financial sector failures. The CDS has always endeavoured, in Parliament, to represent citizens in a manner that is also committed to discovering the reasons for these needs and how the State has dealt with them. Since the beginning, with the BCP and, in particular, through the BPN, at the time with Nuno Melo, in all the committees of inquiry we have been demanding to know why it was necessary to engage the taxpayers' resources and who had been responsible for it. It is very important to remember the following: we did it, too, when private banks were involved and when the General Deposit Box was concerned ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u194	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u195	... we did so, too, when we were in the opposition and when we were in the government; we voted and made possible reports of majority inquiry committees that we were part of, but we also made it possible to investigate committee reports of who, as opposed to us, belonged to parties that, at that time, formed a majority of government. Never, for us, the party reality or the political situation were decisive so that we had clear, affirmative and demanding positions in relation to the financial sector. What guided us was always the interest and defense of the Portuguese taxpayers, because we believe that these efforts that were requested could at least have been minimized, but in many cases they could have been avoided. What we are discussing today is the General Deposit Box and the Committee of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box, and there are three very important points to highlight. First of all, from our point of view — which is not exclusive, but is still ours — this committee of inquiry will be able to complete one work which another could have completed two years ago. from our point of view — which is ours, it is not necessarily everyone's, but in no way ceases to be ours — we could have contributed so much more than we now know and if the poll could have been inspected sooner, and this may not be indifferent, quite the contrary, to civil liability and procedural deadlines. Civil liability may have been influenced by this temporary delay between the first committee of inquiry and what we are now going to have. But more important than everything is that we are still in time to, dealing with new data, we can demand the responsibilities of all who have them — everyone! Secondly, it is important to say here that, for our part and for our contribution to the committee of inquiry, we will not allow adjustments to accounts or committees of inquiry directed only to part of the problem. This is not just a commission of inquiry on Banco de Portugal. It will also be about Banco de Portugal, but it is not only about Banco de Portugal. If it were only about the Banco de Portugal, it would be very useful to many administrators who passed through the General Deposit Box, who have responsibility, who have to answer for it and who are eager to be able to hide behind someone who stays in front and bear all the blame. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u196	It is everyone's responsibility and everyone needs to be scrutinized. The third point, and to conclude, Mr President, was simply the following: we have the opportunity to finish the legislature with an example of good parliamentary work. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u198	I will finish, Mr. President. During this legislature, and even during the previous one, the Portuguese questioned the relevance of some parliamentary work and, among them, questioned the role of the committees of inquiry. The way in which this parliamentary inquiry takes place, the commitment we have to make good use of the time we have left, will tell us a lot about the ability we will have to show to the citizens that we are up to the mandates we have received four years ago and that we will ask again soon. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u199	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are considering a draft resolution, signed by several parties, concerning the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box. It is natural to agree that today in this House on the need for this committee, because what is public about what happened in the General Deposit Box is a real shame. How was it possible to play with a public institution that was respected and that should deserve respect for the Portuguese? Achieving the truth of all this tragedy is a requirement of the Portuguese and a duty of each of us as parliamentarians. To know which actions have led to this disqualification, who were the beneficiaries, who participated in the decisions of the Box on these ruinous financial operations, if there was real political intervention with the Administration of the Box for certain credits to be granted, if the procedures were all respected, what the behaviour of internal control bodies and auditors, such as the position of the supervisor, all this must be ascertained, to whom it hurts. There is no intrusion in this process, nor can there be pre-feasible conclusions or targets of estimation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u202	I repeat: it is a requirement of the Portuguese. And the duty of each of us, ladies and gentlemen, is to ascertain the whole truth. This is the position of the PSD, the same as we assumed when we were a majority in the commissions investigating the BES or BPN, in which the final reports were adopted with broad consensus. Unfortunately, this was not the position of the PS, the Bloc and the PCP in this Parliament, in the first committees investigating the Box, where they boycotted the work and closed the Commission in a hurry. But we want to think that this is something of the past, that the force of events leads you to have a different position today. God wants you to do so, so that nothing will be to hurry and everything will be explained to the Portuguese. We are not going to accept blockades, nor are they choosing to focus on partial officials so that the true leaders can be hidden from the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u204	That is our commitment. Let us hope that they have the same sense of responsibility. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u205	Mr João Paulo Correia, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u206	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This parliamentary commission of inquiry is the consequence of an external and independent audit conducted to manage the General Deposit Board, between 2000 and 2015. This audit was carried out by the determination of the current government and, therefore, if there is an extended consensus in Parliament today for the establishment of a new Board of Inquiry into the Management of Box between 2000 and 2015 is because the Government has determined an audit, an audit which was carried out by an independent external entity and which has produced a report which has recently been transmitted to us by the Administration of the General Deposit Board, which brings us a new fact in the light of the work of the last Committee of Inquiry, which has worked without any audit report. They ask people why in the last committee of inquiry we did not have an audit report because there were many opportunities, in previous years, for the former Government to have done what this government has done. I could have also at the time determined an audit to manage the General Deposit Box, and it did not. this time, this parliamentary committee of inquiry has a new fact, a fundamental part to produce conclusions and other conclusions that will be of public interest and interest to the Portuguese. I recall that it was in 2011 that the Box had, for the first time, losses and, at the time, the Government in 2012 could have found there a good justification for determining an audit for the management of the Box, between 2000 and 2011, but it did not. In 2012, when the government capitalised the General Deposit Box, as this government did, over a few years ago, it could also have found a good opportunity there to determine an audit at the General Deposit Box, but it did not either. Between 2013 and 2015, when the General Financial Inspection, in its quarterly reports, informed the Government that the level of impartiality dropped from EUR 4500 million to EUR 5200 million between the end of 2013 and the end of 2015, the previous Government also had a good opportunity to determine an audit at the General Deposit Board, but it did not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If these three moments were more than justifiable for an audit at the Box, when the former Prime Minister, in the full election campaign in July 2015, said he was very concerned about the situation of the Box because he could not pay the CoCo (Contingent Convertible Bonds) that he owed to the State, at that time was the greatest reason for the previous government to determine an audit at the General Deposit Box, and he also understood not to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u208	The Portuguese want to know which credits were granted, contrary to the opinions of the Box Risk Management Directorate or that they did not respect the opinions of the Risk Management Directorate.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u209	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u210	The Portuguese want to know which credits are that they have been restructured, also contrary to the opinions of the Box Risk Management Directorate or that they have not complied with the guarantees set out in those opinions. The Portuguese want to know what intrusions have occurred by the previous governments in the management of the Box. The Portuguese want to know who are responsible for the damage caused by the General Deposit Box. from the Socialist Party, the Portuguese can expect justice, demanding, rigorous work and without looking at whom. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u211	Mr Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have today the conditions to make a serious assessment of what happened in the Box. It is true that this evaluation will not cover the entire history of Box operations, but we also know that wanting to evaluate everything is often synonymous with not looking at anything in detail. And that's why it's wise for us to focus on the period of 15 years, between 2000 and 2015, which resulted in the greatest inequalities. What we can evaluate in this committee of inquiry is that part of these losses could have been avoided. What we can evaluate is whether these operations have complied with the internal rules of the Box. What we can evaluate is whether these operations served the interests of the bank or, if they did not, what interests they served. What we can evaluate is who are responsible for these operations, whether these operations are the result of incompetence or whether they are the result of political pressures or pressures from private groups. That is the mandate we have, and that is what we will do in this committee of inquiry. We have today better conditions to do so because there is an audit on which we can base and which results in a year of data collection and analysis, information to which no committee of inquiry could have access. And we also have better conditions, because the Box is recapitalized, after a process that was difficult and without guarantees of success. We refused to make the Box a gun and protect the public bank when we thought it was imperative to do so. But today, with conditions and guarantees for this assessment of this Box in the context of stability, I would like to refute the argument of those who think that, as a rule, scrutiny and transparency weaken the General Deposit Box. On the contrary, a clarification of the past can help to strengthen the public bank, in the future, through a reflection on its weaknesses, but also on its potential, which is intrinsically related to the strategic importance of having a large public bank at the service of the economy. The only bank that responds to the country is the only bank with national capital. Mrs. Members, in conclusion, would like to leave a note on Banco de Portugal. The Banco de Portugal is the bank of the banks. It is the entity that supervises all banks in the country, who assesses their practices, who decides which managers that give guarantees of fitness to be bankers. If there are people who have to be available to see their suitability assessed at any time, the Governor of Banco de Portugal is one of them. The gentlemen. Members can ignore this fact, they can look either forward or look forward, waiting for the end of the Governor's mandate, but one thing is certain: the Governor of the Banco de Portugal no longer has the ability to be governor from the moment the Banco de Portugal told us that he would not evaluate his suitability. I want this to be well registered: the Left Block does not make any early analysis of the suitability of Carlos Costa or any other former administrator of the General Deposit Box. It is the Banco de Portugal that has to do this analysis and we must legitimately demand that Banco de Portugal carry out this analysis of suitability for former administrators. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the day the Banco de Portugal stated that, of all the administrators and former administrators of the Caixa, there is one that will never be evaluated, which is its Governor, on that day a conflict of interest was created. If the only way to ensure that Carlos Costa is evaluated is to stop being a Governor, then stop being a Governor. Otherwise, Mrs. Members, the conflict of interests will remain and each party must assess whether it wants to compact and live with this conflict of interests or whether it wants to act in front of it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u213	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The audit report to the General Deposit Box has once again demonstrated that, with the approximation of the cash management criteria to the private bank, with the promotion of the private interests of large economic groups, with the entry of the Box into bad business, in failed projects and even in private bank shareholders' wars, the Box has obtained widespread losses, which weigh on the Portuguese people. The personal responsibilities of the administration of the Box and of the various levels of decision shall be determined by the Box and the State through the Government shall monitor closely that determination and the consequences of malmanagement practices. Any criminal responsibilities must be established by the courts, whose work must be respected. The Assembly of the Republic is responsible for the development of political responsibilities, and these, Mr. Members have already been clarified in previous committees of inquiry and undoubtedly fall on the successive boards of administration, populated by PS proa figures, PSD, but also on the CDS and the governments that appointed them, of the same three parties, without forgetting the responsibilities of the two Governors of the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u215	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u216	We recall that only in this Parliament have two investigation committees been held in Box, one of them lasted more than a year. Never a private bank, where the Portuguese had to put billions of euros into the hole of ruinous private management, speculation and financial corruption—such as BPN, BES / New Bank, but also BPI and BCP—never had a trial of three committees of inquiry with the bank in business, as is being done with the public bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u217	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u218	It is that the intentions behind this CDS proposal are essentially two: one, it is to give the stage for the PS, the PSD and the CDS to spend the next few months distributing, among themselves, accusations of those most guilty, in a register of political chicana and nothing else; another, already old, is that of using this commission of inquiry to attack the public bank and thus benefit the private bank. They also seek to use this committee to ultimately open the way for private individuals to enter the Box, because they know that if the recapitalisation process is not successful, the next capitalisation will already be private, as provided for in the agreement between the Portuguese State and the European Union. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the side of the CFP, we will not give this petition. in this commission of inquiry, as in the previous one, we will maintain our refusal to all PSD and CDS initiatives that serve only to attack the public bank and will work so that it can serve to confirm and densify the political responsibilities already established in the previous committees. The PCP will continue to affirm what is increasingly evidence, if we look at the panorama of the Portuguese banking system: is that the bank is either public or not national. Just see what happened in the private bank, which was gradually captured by foreign capital. But the reality also shows that for a bank to be truly public, it is not enough to be owned by the State. It must be guided by the public interest, and that is what has missed the Box, with the consequences known. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u219	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There seems to be a large majority in favour of this committee of inquiry. I don't share that opinion and I just wanted to summarize a few essential ideas. The first is that we all already realized by the audit report that there was mismanagement in the General Deposit Box. And this mismanagement can of course be divided between civil responsibilities, criminal responsibilities and political responsibilities. The question for which I do not have a satisfactory answer is whether the Members of this Third Committee of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box will have greater research capacity, for example, on criminal responsibilities than prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The second question for which I have no answer and on which I have the greatest doubts is whether the members of the committee of inquiry will have greater capacity to audit the management of the General Deposit Box than the specialized auditors of specialist consultants. I have the greatest reservations and the greatest doubts. Make it clear: all responsibilities must be assumed. Anyone with criminal responsibilities must be tried and, if convicted, he must have a penalty for his crime. This is something. The other thing we should be discussing, and in which we should be committed, is to know what we want from the public bank, so that it is effectively a bank at the service of the economy and the Portuguese and manages dividends that enter the State budget and relieve the public accounts. Well, none of that's gonna be done for these months. What will be done during, above all, the time of an election campaign is a political blow around these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u221	Finally, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to leave two notes on the various interventions made here. The first is to tell Mr. João Paulo Correia that, if there was no earlier audit, namely, during the previous Committee of Inquiry, it was because VV. Ex., with the support of the Block and the PCP, they have led to the audit requirement that the PSD and the CDS have made. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u223	Why didn't they ask for it in 2014? Why didn't they ask for it in 2015? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u224	They didn't want this audit to show up! God will know why! The second note, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is to tell you that we are going to this committee of open-minded inquiry, of quiet conscience, to clear up the whole truth. And we hope that it was the last day when some of the benches showed the "esteem hate" they have, forgetting what our concern has to be, which is to clear up those responsible for this tragedy. Mr João Paulo Correia lost half of his time talking about the previous government, when what happened, as you know, was not during the previous government but, yes, during the former socialist government — and that is the truth! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] My dear friend, I began by saying that I am going to this committee of inquiry of quiet conscience, but you did not hide that which was your « hate of esteem». Like Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who has taken part in her speech only to speak of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. No one can be inconsequential in this investigation. But if we're going to start, right now, hurrying up, namely, concluding who the guilty are,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u225	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies. Although it is registered, it must also respect time limits.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u226	... this is a bad job that we lend to democracy and Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u227	Mrs. Members, we will generally consider Law Projects Nos 834 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) — Creates an informal regulation mechanism of IRS declarations due to judicial decisions involving returns to taxpayers of wrongly charged tax benefits and 1102 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — establishes, in addition to Law No 9 / 2019 of 1 February, a mechanism for the informal regularization of IRS declarations as a result of judicial decisions involving returns to taxpayers of wrongly charged tax benefits. To present the PSD bill and to open the debate, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho has the floor. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the Bill No 834 / XIII / 3. the, comes the PSD propose the establishment of an informal regulation mechanism of IRS declarations, due to judicial decisions involving returns to taxpayers of improperly charged tax benefits and which have been judged unconstitutional. As we all remember, Judgment No. 848 / 2017 of the Constitutional Court declared the unconstitutionality of the civil protection fee, created and charged by the city of Lisbon. We know that this rate was unconstitutional and unlawfully charged for a long time by the City Council of Lisbon, despite the various warnings made by the PSD council and also by the PSD members regarding the irregularity of the civil protection rate. Following that judgment, the City Council of Lisbon was obliged to return the amounts charged. However, this return later increased interest, also following a legislative initiative presented by the PSD, which was approved in this Chamber and which forced the city of Lisbon and which naturally applies to other municipalities in identical circumstances as regards the return of interest on charges. As a result of that return, the Government stated that it would apply fines to all those taxpayers who did not replace their IRS declaration on the basis of having introduced the undue charges in that declaration. The PSD believes that it is twice as costly for taxpayers, on the one hand, to have had to pay a rate that is unconstitutional and unnecessary and then they still have to be themselves to regulate income declarations on their own initiative. For this reason, because it is a collection made by a public entity and a correction which can also be made by a public entity—i.e. the Tax and Customs Authority, which has returned the collection, on the one hand, and which receives the IRS declarations— it is the understanding of the PSD that the adjustment should be made informally and that the public entity which has wrongly collected should interact with the Tax and Customs Authority for the purpose of correcting the income declaration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u229	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u230	I will now finish, Mr President. We also understand that this correction of the income statement must be made in the year following the return of undue collection, so that taxpayers can quietly schedule their lives with regard to future charges. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u231	To present the CDS-PP initiative, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor. Now I can say.f.f.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill that the CDS now presents answers two important questions. That is: when the State does what it cannot, who has the obligation to correct the situation? And when the State treats the citizen as it should not, who has the obligation to correct the citizen? And when I say « state », I am speaking in public entities, I am speaking, in the specific case, in municipalities. The question put here — and it is simple, relatively simple — is this: when it happens in a municipality to be charged a tax that is subsequently declared unconstitutional, who has the obligation to correct the situation, who has the obligation to return the wrong? We have already answered that question, this House has already answered that question, and legislation has already been adopted to say that the chambers have an obligation to return these values to the citizen. Now, the answer is to realize who has to correct the IRS statement of these citizens, which has been altered by the fact that they have paid a fee that should never have been charged in the first place. Is it the citizens who now have to correct their IRS statement in the face of the confusion that they have been involved in because of the collection of an undue fee or should it be the municipalities and the state that should do that? from our point of view, whoever has done wrong, who has done wrong is that he has an obligation to correct the situation. It was not the citizen, it was the municipalities, and it could have been the central state. In any case, when a public power acts as it should not act, when it does what it should not do, it is he who has an obligation to correct the situation, it is not the citizens. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u233	For an intervention, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This issue of the civil protection rate, apparently only in Lisbon, has served as a legislative inspiration to the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS, as if there had not been any other declarations of unconstitutionality of the most diverse and apparently similar rates, which is or because of the lack of competence of the municipality to impose them or because of lack of connection between the tax and the amount of the tax. Therefore, this is the part where it is more or less obvious that, rather than making life easier for anyone else, there is a permanent attempt to exploit this particular rate politically and that is why we are never talking about any of the other declared illegal or unconstitutional tributes. It is also, in fact, why, by taking the principle mentioned by Mrs Cecilia Meireles, this refers only to situations where the norm on which the levy is levied is unconstitutional. But by the same principle as Mrs Cecilia Meireles, any situation in which the fee is returned by the Administration because the levy was declared illegal or unconstitutional, either because the norm was illegal, or because there are no charges, should also have exactly the same treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u235	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u237	But it is also more or less obvious that this intervention, made a little bit of it, does not work. And it does not work for a reason: because the Tax and Customs Authority, to whom such information would be sent, does not have the elements necessary for the informal settlement, in particular does not have the information on whether that amount was deducted as a cost in the year in which it is collected. A possible consequence of the mechanism proposed by the PSD and the CDS would be that people who didn't even invoke that fee as a cost...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u238	He's discriminated!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u239	No, you are not discriminated against in the statements by IRS, Mrs Deputy, what are the costs, but only the amount of them. Now, regardless of that, there is an opportunity here to make life easier for the citizen. In fact, it is possible to use this legislative initiative to make life easier for the citizen, probably in the simplest way, using the mechanisms that are already in the IRS and not inventing new procedures, especially by doing that thing as simple as integrating the amount returned into the incomes of the same category of that year, which is the simplest way to do without creating parallel procedures. in this sense, the Socialist Party will not vote against these initiatives and, as a specialist, will present the corresponding proposals which, in our view, will be a better solution to the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u240	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills currently under discussion aim to ensure that it is up to the Tax and Customs Authority ( AT ), and not to each of the taxpayers, to ascertain any tax correctness resulting from the refund of taxes and taxes wrongly charged because they are considered unconstitutional or illegal. It makes sense that, having been charged by the State, which is then considered illegal or unconstitutional, it is returned as it is being done. It also makes sense that, in this return, interest should be considered, as has already been approved in this House. It also makes sense that citizens who, in business activity, have placed these charges as expenses, after the fees have been returned, have to do the right of their accounts, paying the possible tax difference. It also makes sense that, since the error was the State, it does not have to be the taxpayers to have to make another replacement statement to make the right, but rather it is the AT that makes this difference. There may be aspects to improve in the specialty, which have already been mentioned here, in fact, we will vote in favour of this proposal. However, what we wanted to point out is that the PSD and CDS could have already solved this issue longer, when we discussed the Bills Nos 835 / XIII / 3. a ( PSD ) and 1019 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ), of the same parties last December. But the truth is that the PSD and the CDS have first wanted to drag the discussion over time on these rates so that they can take political advantage, particularly at the local level, as you can see. This proposal, which is clear, will not give even a euro to any taxpayer, which does only place the burden of correction in the Tax Authority and not in the taxpayer. Therefore, they do not now want the PSD and CDS to delete what was the real tax bag that they did while they were government, mainly harming workers and small entrepreneurs. With regard to these projects, we would like to mention once again the need to strengthen the material and human resources of the Tax and Customs Authority. In addition to fulfilling its function, which is to collect taxes, AT has been overburdened with other functions that extravagant its role, such as collection of propines, tolls, professional orders quotas, among others. More means are needed, as well as the exploitation of the employees of the Tax and Customs Administration, so that they can continue to guarantee their duties, including in the fight against large fraud and tax evasion and also in order to ensure the proximity of the citizens. It is in order to make it easier to solve these problems, such as what we are discussing today, that AT needs to have more and better conditions, and that certainly happens because of the valorisation of its workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u242	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: How well it was seen by the consensus generated, or by the fundamental consensus generated, the principle presented here is correct. If there is a error in tax collection, either because the law is unconstitutional or because there was a court decision that says otherwise, there is no reason to double penalty taxpayers. In other words, taxpayers are penalized because they have paid more of that tax, because it will take some time to recover the tax or the tax paid, and they still have the responsibility to rectify their return on income, on condition that they have an additional fine for not meeting that obligation in time. Therefore, the principle is more than correct. If the State is wrong, it pays interest; in the same way, if the taxpayer is wrong, it pays interest. If the State is wrong, corrects the declarations; in the same way, if the taxpayer is wrong, it has an obligation to correct the declarations. However, I have a doubt, already expressed here by Mr Rocha Andrade, which concerns the ability of AT to do so. The idea that it is necessary to ensure an interaction between, for example, a municipal chamber and the AT is a good idea, but we must be sure that the Tax Authority has the conditions, means and data in order to be able to assume responsibility for being itself and tacitly correcting these declarations, even for the protection of the taxpayer. I think these projects have the conditions to move on to the specialty, to listen to the AT and to be altered to ensure that this part of the process runs in the best way. What is more, with the principle, we agree. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u244	Several parliamentary groups still have time to make speeches in the debate on this agenda item. But, as the Bureau does not record inscriptions, we are going to the final intervention, which will be given by Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho of the PSD. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u245	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank Mr Andrade for his positive speeches on this subject and I invite him to contribute, as a specialist, to any improvements that can be made to this diploma without misappropriating what is our intention, because we will not abstain from it. The suggestion presented by Mrs Mariana Mortágua is a suggestion we follow. Indeed, we need to listen to the Tax Authority to know what instruments can be implemented and how can the taxpayer be disappointed to have to act after he has already been penalized by charging an undue fee. I believe that, in the field of specialty, we are able to guarantee what moves the PSD. And what moves the PSD is, exclusively, to ensure that taxpayers are not doubled due to unconstitutional, abusive charges on the part of the public authority, whether national, regional or local. Of course, we refer in particular to the case of the municipality of Lisbon, which is not the only one — we have the municipality of Setúbal, we have the municipality of...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u246	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u247	Isn't it? It's an unconstitutional judgment! We also have the municipality of Vila Nova de Gaia. We may have about 19 municipalities with civil protection fee. But, of course, this is a diploma which is general and abstract and which will apply to any undue collection situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u248	Setubal has nothing to do with others!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u249	The case of the municipality of Lisbon was particularly shocking because it involved funding from the municipality of Lisbon, irregular funding. For two consecutive years, the city of Lisboa can use the money collected to the municipalities of Lisboa, although it was successively warned by the PSD that these were undue, unconstitutional and illegal charges. We must not fail to denounce this, even in order to avoid similar future situations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u250	We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is part of the general assessment of Bill No 1070 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 466 / 99 of 6 November 1999, which eliminates the possibility of reducing the value of the blood price pension when it results in the death of disabled armed forces. To present this initiative, Mr. João Rebelo of the CDS-PP has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u251	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies (ADFA ) who are here present to attend the session and wish their new President, Colonel Lopes Dias, the greatest happiness in this difficult task that will be to replace someone like Commander José Arruda, who so early and so surprisingly left us and to whom the Country owes so much. I also greet, in particular, the former combatants, the disabled and especially the disabled of the Armed Forces, whose witness of citizenship I would like to highlight here. Already last week we adopted a vote of regret, to which all the parties joined, but I would like to return here stating in the presence of the ADFA leadership. To a large extent, the commitment and the relentless defence of the rights of the disabled of the Armed Forces by Commander Arruda have convinced us of the importance and justice of this initiative that we are presenting today. As we know, the disabled of the Armed Forces are Portuguese who, almost as a whole, contracted this disability in a war they did not choose to do, fulfilling orders, honoring Portugal. The recognition and defence of the rights of the military, the ex-military and their families are, and have always been in the political and legislative priorities of the CDS, particularly with regard to the disabled of the Armed Forces, and to pay tribute to those who have lost their lives in defence and for Portugal. The blood price pension is a benefit granted by the Portuguese State for a long time. We have already found references to its assignment in Decree No. 17335 of 10 September 1929, which established the granting of blood price pensions to families of those who lose their lives in the battlefields in defense of the homeland or by virtue of service in the maintenance of public order. But if we go back a little further, already in the Constitutional Monarchy there is reference to the provision of this kind, for example to the review of the blood price pension in the Bill of 19 January 1827. Therefore, this matter has crossed regimes, as we can repair. Currently, the death of, inter alia, the military at the service of the Nation, civil protection officials and firefighters, magistrates and elements of the security forces, disabled members of the Armed Forces with a disability of 60 % or more. The law itself, therefore, already recognizes the importance of referring positively to the disabled of the Armed Forces because, while in the remaining cases the death must be directly related to the functions they performed, in this case this conditionant is not necessary. In view of its compensating character and the particularity of the disabled in the Armed Forces, the CDS considers that the blood price pension taken by them should not be subject to income control, i.e. for its calculation, the income or proceeds of any kind taken by the beneficiaries should not be taken into account. We cannot ignore that many of these widows, who have the right to receive a blood-price pension, are women who have abdicated, many of them, their career and their professional life to be with their spouses and to care for them. They were women, nurses, caregivers and more. We must not forget that contribution. in this sense, the purpose of this amendment is to adapt the system of calculation of the blood price pension to its compensating nature and eliminate this legal inconformity, leaving the blood price pension to be subject to income control when it is granted as a result of the death of disabled armed forces. That's our proposal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u252	For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Lopes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u253	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is my first speech in this House, allow me a very special greeting to Mr President, the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. We are debating today, here, the CDS-PP bill that aims to eliminate the possibility of reducing the value of the blood price pension when this result of the loss of the Armed Forces. Therefore, I cannot fail to thank the President of the Association of Armed Forces Deficits, Colonel Lopes Dias, on behalf of the Socialist Bank, for the presence of the President of the Association of Armed Forces Deficits, and also recall the extraordinary humanist example of the Commander José Arruda. This legislative initiative is important for all those who have had a difficult military journey, in which many have left their lives or part of themselves and go to meet their legitimate desires. Historically, in the Bill of Law in 1827, the Portuguese State recognized for the first time the need to compensate the families of those who lost their lives at the service of the country. Today, I remember that there is another type of social support to reduce the consequences of being disabled by the Armed Forces and that the Socialist Party in 2018 has increased by 35% of its pensions. The proposal now under discussion sets out the second amendment to Decree-Law No 466 / 99 of 6 November, and welcomes the sympathy of many in a matter which, because of its importance, will be welcomed in all political quadrants. It is a legislative initiative which follows a general pension scheme and not a special scheme, and therefore applies to various circumstances and realities. In the view of the Socialist Party, the draft law of the CDS-PP requires an inclusive and comprehensive view and must be assessed under different vectors, either in its budgetary impact or in other matters that may arise from its application, which always lack a clear analysis, especially in the limitations associated with the law-work. We would like to stress and make it clear that any amendment of the law must necessarily be part of an attitude of conjugation of balances, which will always be present when it comes to historical obligations and responsibilities of the Portuguese State. Once again, we want to express our appreciation, admiration and solidarity for the disabled in the Armed Forces and their families, facts that are effectively decisive to agree with the principles underlying the bill in appreciation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party will approve the diploma in appreciation because, indeed, Portugal has a historical debt to the disabled of the Armed Forces. Let me quote Jaime Gama, former President of the Assembly of the Republic, at a celebration of the Association of Armed Forces Deficients, when he said that « the disabled are the exception of exceptions ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u254	Mrs. Maria da Luz Lopes, I wish you the greatest happiness. After this first intervention, which has many in this Parliament, it is what I wish you to do. I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Vitorino of the PSD parliamentary group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u255	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For a long time, the Portuguese State has been planning to support the families of those who have lost their lives at the service of the country. As an example, the blood price pension is provided for in the Bill of Law of January 1827, as it has been remembered here. Today, Decree-Law No. 466 / 99 establishes the legal regime for blood-price pensions and for exceptional and relevant services provided to the country. The principle is the right one and it is old, but there are always corrections and improvements to do. A necessary amendment to a draft PSD resolution approved in this House has to do with the unexplained maturity of the blood pension allocation process. Unfortunately, we had a very recent case of a Portuguese military, Paiva Benido, who died in a terrorist attack in Mali, in which it was clear the need of the State to respond rapidly to these situations. They are unacceptable and even immoral about delay and bureaucracy associated with situations as sensitive as these. The same is true of the diploma under discussion! The draft law submitted by the CDS-PP does not mean that the pension value of the blood price is not reduced when it results from the death of disabled armed forces. Whoever chooses in his life the way of serving the Father — and this is not a coward! — you know that in many situations you put your own life at risk, but you must know that, if anything bad happens, the State, this State that this provider has decided to serve, will not fail you or yours. This principle is valid for those who have sacrificed in overseas, but also for those who today serve in the three branches of the Armed Forces in such difficult scenarios as those of the Central African Republic, Mali, Afghanistan or Iraq, and in so many other places where we help defend populations, maintain peace and contribute to the global fight against terrorism. The state must be able to take care of its own. The problems of the IASFA (Instituto de Action Social des Forces Armadas ) today reach alarming proportions; the ADM (Assistance for Military Disease) passes through the problems we know; the HFAR ( Hospital des Forces Armadas ), due to lack of money and human resources, does not respond to the needs of the military family. These examples demonstrate the inability of the current government to do what it deserves and to honour, with our military, the basic principle of taking care of its own. We hope that, at least in this proposal, there will be unanimity. Mr President of the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies, Colonel Marques Lopes Dias, the best way to honor Commander José Arruda and the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies and to respect our disabled is not by word but by act, acts that allow justice to be restored in the process of moral and material reparation that is due them. What is presented and proposed here today has a small budgetary impact and is fair and worthy. from the PSD Parliamentary Group, the diploma deserves our agreement and will have our vote in favour. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member João Rebelo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u256	For the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP, I would like to begin by greeting Colonel Manuel Lopes Dias, who recently took the presidency of the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies and who is present at the session in the company of other leaders of ADFA, whom I also welcome, this is the first debate on the subject of the disabled armed forces in which we do not have the presence of our dear friend José Arruda. I wanted to wish the greatest happiness to ADFA leaders and leave our sole tribute to Commander José Arruda. We also agree with this bill and we will vote in favour of it. Indeed, pensions allocated to the disabled by the Armed Forces have a compensating nature — this has been repeatedly stated — and this nature must be reflected when faced with other types of pensions allocated. Indeed, this nature stems from the fact that it was acquired in the service of the Armed Forces as a double accident, insofar as it was imposed by the fulfilment of a duty to the service of the Armed Forces, and in this sense the State cannot fail to reflect this fact in the nature of the pension itself which is assigned. We know that there have already been times in this House when proposals for the State budget, as originally drawn up by the governments, have forgotten this nature. Even when the previous legislatures were trying to reduce pensions, governments were forgetting the compensating nature of pensions allocated to the disabled by the Armed Forces and also wanted to cut them. That wasn't allowed. This assembly never allowed it! All Members of all the member parliamentary groups of the National Defence Commission were aware of this situation, paying attention to the warning that the Armed Forces Deficiencies Association has never ceased to do so. When we refer to the blood price pensions, what is involved in this legislative initiative is to allow the blood price pensions allocated after the death of disabled armed forces can be cumulative with incomes obtained from another source. This is a consequence of the compensating nature of these pensions, which, indeed, must be recognised and which we agree with this legislative initiative. Obviously, our availability is complete to continue the legislative process with its vote on the speciality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u258	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u259	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the CDS Parliamentary Group on its initiative, but allow me also to address a compliance, already done by other seats, with the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies, in particular with its new President, Colonel Manuel Lopes Dias, to whom I wish a fruitful mandate, and to remind, as at the time of the vote on the weighing vote, the Commander José Arruda and all his dedication to this cause, which was the cause of a lifetime. On the initiative under consideration, we follow the claim put forward and, therefore, the amendment of the law. The initiative is based on the assumption that these blood-price pensions should not be covered in a prism other than that of a compensating nature and, therefore, from that point of view, should not enter into any kind of family income calculation or any type of limitation as regards payment, either of the pensions themselves or of other types of social support or of other pension formulations. From that point of view, assuming this compensating character, it should not result in a posteriori penalty due to its incorporation into family income. We do not forget, however, that the CDS and the PSD were in the same government who, five years ago, wanted to cut these pensions when he made a brutal attack on all pensions and reforms in our country and promoted a policy of austerity without looking at who, without looking at this compensatory character because of these men who have already paid once for serving the State. That is why, from this point of view, there should be no such penalty. I am glad that in the past the Assembly of the Republic has blocked these interests of the PSD Government / CDS. We will now also take a good step towards meeting the requirement of recognition that these men should have before them, in their condition and in what the State owes them to their action. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u260	To close this debate, Mr Rebelo has the floor for a new speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u261	Mr. President, I'll be brief. I am grateful for the contribution my colleagues have made to this proposal, and I am grateful for the consensus that you have reached. I leave only two notes. First of all, yes, it is true that the proposal to lower these pensions included some budgets from the previous Government, but it is also true that it was on the proposal of the PSD and the CDS that this did not happen, because we made amendments. But it is good to have remembered this, because it fits a little in the very wrong perspective that the central government of the State has when it looks at these matters. It is often not by its own will that those who perform government functions that this happens, but then in the final draft of the State budgets, and which is due much to the Directorate-General of the Budget, sometimes some incisions of people who see everything the same when it should not be seen the same. This often happens and harms governments of all political colors. And in that case it happened. In other words, a compensation pension was placed on a cake which was not the same and cannot be seen like this. But it has also been mentioned, because it has indeed been true, and we have corrected this in the Assembly of the Republic with proposals to amend the PSD and the CDS. Secondly, Mr President, I would also like to stress that it has been said — and well! — by Mrs Maria da Luz Lopes, who will only come into force for the year in the next year's budget. The Defence Commission has a working group that examines several issues related to disability in the Armed Forces, but also to the former combatants, and this subject can also be taken into account in this same perspective. On the basis of a suggestion made personally by Mr. Jorge Machado of the Portuguese Communist Party, the idea to which the Government is also associated is to present, before the close of this legislative session and this legislature, a very important package of legislation for the former combatants and the disabled of the Armed Forces. We will not mind that this proposal also enters this package, which will only come into force in January of next year, to give an even more global boost to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic. That is all I would like to highlight, thanking the consensus that this proposal has had. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u262	We have thus concluded the discussion of this bill. We move on to the last point of our agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 937 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Extends the scope of labelling rules for genetically modified foods and 1100 / XIII / 4. a (PAN) — The labelling rules concerning the presence of genetically modified organisms in by-products of animals, meals and non-packaged products are made more transparent. To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u263	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of the Greens on genetically modified organisms is well known. The Greens defend the option of non-cultivation and non-marketing of genetically modified organisms, applying the precautionary principle, taking into account, inter alia, studies that reveal the harmful effects of transgenics on health and the environment. There was, as is public knowledge, countries of the European Union which, through moratoriums or the application of the safeguard clause, banned the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in their territories. Unfortunately, Portugal has not made this option in the Greens'perspective and maintains the possibility of the cultivation of GMOs authorised by the European Union. We believe that this governmental option of successive PSD governments, the CDS and the PS goes against that which is the interest and right of citizens, to which, in particular in studies at European Union level, they have determined that the generality of citizens does not want to consume products with GMOs, but this option, as I said, will also meet the interests of the multinationals of the agri-food sector, particularly Monsanto. It's a wrong option in the Greens' perspective. Regardless of the position of each of the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic on the cultivation and marketing of genetically modified organisms, there is one issue that we must all agree on: consumers have rights and, essentially, have the right to be informed about what they are consuming. The truth is that there is a brutal deficit in consumer information through the labelling of products containing transgenic products. If the product contains less than 0, 9 % of transgenics, the consumer has no right to be informed. This is wrong, because the consumer, regardless of the percentage of the product, should be informed about the presence of transgenics in what he will consume. On the other hand, there is a deficit in the labelling of transgenic foods for products such as fish or meat, for example, or by-products of animal origin, such as eggs or milk. For example, there are animals that may have been fed with transgenic feed and the consumer is not informed about this issue. From our perspective, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a deficit in consumer information and what is a consumer's right is being maintained: to be fully informed of what it consumes, in the sense that it can make its choices responsible and conscious.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u264	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u265	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. The Greens therefore call on the other parliamentary groups to approve this bill which the Greens present here, in order to make the labelling rules for transgenic foods more stringent. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u266	For one speech, Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor, which is entitled to one more minute from the non-registered Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u267	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not for anything that consumer rights have already been provided for in our Constitution since 1982, with the right to information being very clear. This right is of particular relevance when we are talking about food. Citizens have the constitutional right to know what they are consuming. Whenever they buy meat or milk from animals that have been fed with rations based on genetically modified organisms or when they eat in restaurants that make meals using ingredients with GMOs, without such information being provided to them, their right is to be violated. The Supreme Court has also ruled on this matter, saying that « in the right to information it is important that complete and loyal information is produced capable of enabling a conscientious and responsible decision, all with a view to empowering the consumer to a decision of conscious and prudent choice». The decision to consume or not GMOs is personal and it is not up to the Members. Members limit information; on the contrary. Parliament cannot keep this cloak of opacity, imposing on everyone what to eat. Citizens legitimately want to know what they are consuming and it is the obligation of the Assembly of the Republic to ensure access to that information, which must be guaranteed by those who place the products on the market. In order to ensure that there is no doubt with consumers, foods and meals containing GMOs or from animals fed with GMOs must be identified in an appropriate, exempt and objective manner, without any kind of ethical considerations, of course, with the reference to which they contain genetically modified organisms. Is it asking so much? Oh, my God! After all, you're so scared, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u268	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Lúcia Araújo Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u269	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives submitted by the Greens and the NAP remind this House that European legislation on genetically modified food and feed presents labelling requirements, which inform us whether the products contain or are made from GMOs, allowing the consumer a clear and informed choice. GMOs authorised in the European Union, on the basis of existing legislation, shall be subject to risk assessment and shall be required to indicate their presence by labelling in foodstuffs and feed, and this obligation shall be extensible for products not pre-packaged. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, although food industry operators often avoid the use of genetically modified ingredients, such materials may be present in vestigial quantities as a result of their accidental or technically inevitable presence. However, operators should be in a position to demonstrate to the competent authorities that they have taken appropriate measures to avoid them. Therefore, the development of national labelling legislation, as proposed, would require additional costs with laboratory sampling and analysis to ensure the total accidental absence of GMOs, with costs for industry, retail and consequently the consumer. Similarly, such a system would require the creation of a monitoring system with additional costs, costs, in our view, you would be unjustifiable in view of the purpose to be achieved. On the other hand, the creation of additional segregation measures which would completely exclude the so-called ‘accidentally or technically inevitable presence of GMOs’ would result in high costs for feedstock suppliers and the food industry, and also in an enormous asymmetry in access to 100 % food exempt, whose price would tend to be outside the reach of most family budgets. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft laws under consideration, with regard to feed, will risk unfair competition from national operators against the requirements applied at European Union level, in addition to the cost of access to a set of products whose sustainability is threatened. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, an animal fed on genetically modified animal products does not constitute neither it nor its products as a genetically modified animal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u270	Isn't it a genetically modified animal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u271	Mr Moreira, Member of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme 'genetically modified organisms' has already been discussed in this Parliament and the CFP has always made its contribution and demonstrated its position on this matter. For the CFP, it is possible to live without genetically modified organisms, admitting only their use for public interest, scientific, medicinal or other purposes that are relevant to society. There is still some ignorance about the real effects of genetically modified organisms on health, the environment and cultures, so we should guide their use by requiring the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u274	Concerns about genetically modified organisms are legitimate and the protection of populations is imperative. It is therefore essential to provide all the information necessary so that citizens can make decisions that they consider most appropriate. There are issues that arise and which legitimize the concern of the populations regarding genetically modified products. The first question concerns the impossibility of ensuring that these products are harmless for the human being and for animals in the face of the conditions in which they are produced: industrialised production, using changes in the genesis of the product with the aim of quick and easy profit. Another issue is the fact that it is inevitable and almost impossible to have agricultural products totally free of genetically modified organisms, given the competitive characteristics of transgenic products. One way to promote biodiversity, to preserve ecosystems and to defend public health of populations is, without a doubt, bet on biological production. An agriculture based on small and medium-sized family farming is the most sustainable form of agricultural production, an agriculture with traditional and conventional production, which meets the characteristics of our country, responding to quality and diversity production, an agriculture without genetically modified organisms. The agribusiness is based on intensive and dependent production of chemicals and genetically modified organisms, because it has as its sole objective the product and its profitability, its marketing, ignoring the environmental and social component. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, genetically modified organisms only defend the interests of corporations, do not defend the interests of the people and the environment. The CFP Parliamentary Group accompanies the concerns expressed in today's initiatives and agrees that the labelling of food products for human and animal consumption should be very clear as to the information and mandatory for all products containing genetically modified organisms. The CFP always takes its position vis-à-vis genetically modified organisms. The CFP will contribute to strengthening precautions for the use of these bodies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u275	Mr Matias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u276	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The GMOs have allowed the control of large multinationals in the agriculture sector, exacerbating the dependence of farmers on specific seeds and pesticides. The contamination of the environment and natural varieties exacerbates the risks of GMO cultivation, harms farmers, weakens local fauna and flora and limits consumer choice. Several scientific studies also point to public health risks, such as, in fact, already mentioned here today. Faced with mistrust of these cultures and manipulations, several countries such as Germany, France, Poland, Hungary and many others have already banned the cultivation of GMOs. Numerous investigations demonstrate the great mistrust and rejection of citizens and citizens in relation to the production and consumption of these bodies. However, there are about four dozen GMOs with marketing authorisation after importation into the European Union. In recent years the European Union has amended the rules on the cultivation of GMOs, with each state being given the possibility of limiting or prohibiting these crops on its territory. However, the fact that the decision to be a national does not effectively protect countries that decide to ban, as cross-border contamination may exist. It also continues to exist the possibility of these organisms entering the food chain of animals that will later be consumed by people or in the composition of meals served in restaurants, canteens, etc. , or even at home, without the knowledge of consumers, supposed to be 'technically inevitable' or 'accidental' to their presence. In 2010 the Assembly of the Republic unanimously adopted a draft resolution of the Left Block recommending that the Government reject the marketing of a type of transgenic rice. Already in this legislature, we presented a bill that aimed to ban the cultivation, import and marketing of GMOs. More recently, in 2017, we introduced a bill that specifically covered the right to information to consumers on genetically modified foods. These measures corresponded to the precautionary principle that should govern public health matters, food safety and ecosystem protection and would more effectively protect the population. However, these proposals were rejected here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, continuing to be a reality in our country the marketing and the possibility of consumption of GMOs, the Left Block welcomes the initiatives here, because they come in line with the proposals we have put forward. In order to ensure the right to clear and user-sensitive information, we continue to consider it necessary to review food labelling legislation containing GMOs, requiring their mention to be mandatory, regardless of the percentage of GMOs included in the food, and to extend it to animal or human feed products or by-products. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also mandatory to mention it when there are no traces of GMOs in food. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u277	Mr Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The labelling of GMO products or containing GMOs is already mandatory and is already regulated, so we feel that the right of information to consumers is guaranteed and safeguarded. There are two exceptions, and they are when it is technically impossible or when it is economically unviable to determine the existence of genetically modified foods. That is why the limit of 0, 9 % — below 1 % — was defined for the need for labelling and the products derived from animals, meat, milk and eggs, whose labelling is not mandatory because after the protein is digested, it is not possible to determine whether or not those animals were fed with GMO products.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u279	You have to understand the cycle!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u280	In addition, a consumer who wishes, for reasons not indicated by you, to ensure that he consumes products with 0, 000 % GMOs can always buy organic products or even many products with PDOs (protected designation of origin) or PGIs (protected geographical indication ).
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u281	Look at the news! That's the news of the afternoon!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u282	So what are you guys doing? Members propose in these projects it is impossible to monitor, because it is not determined in most cases, as I said. This is an ideological debate between the Greens and the NAP, which once again and again bring us this issue, with the ultimate aim of actually ending products with GMOs. They want to pass the idea that these products are harmful to health and come with the example of resistance to herbicides, they come to say that this allows many herbicides to be used and that therefore the products are very bad. However, Mrs. Members, the only product with GMOs whose cultivation is allowed in Europe, and which is also cultivated in Portugal, is a brocade-resistant maize, which is a pest. Look at that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is even a product that will allow you to have less insecticides and fewer pesticides, which is the opposite of what you claim. Therefore, the Greens have this ideological issue and, in the case of the NAP, I would not call it « ideology», even if I would say it is demagogy at its height. The PAN, a party that wants to make believe that hunting with sticks is the same thing as walking around, which wants to convince us that there are more or less scientific studies when, after all, it is about experimentation, it is the same party that has the implant — I would say — to quote a ruling from the Supreme Court of Justice, where we can read that we have the obligation to «fight negative, liar, misleading or disloyal information». Mr. André Silva, this is not ideology, it is pure demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u284	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u285	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need to tell the Portuguese is that in Portugal, as in Europe, we have one of the most demanding food safety systems all over the world, which applies to all food products and allows us to have safe products, which still reach the Portuguese table at quite affordable prices. It is worth thinking about this for all those who question the support that farmers receive. It's worth everybody thinking that it's because of these support that our farmers and European farmers receive...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u286	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u287	I am concluding, Mr. President. As I said, it is because of these support that we, all Portuguese, can have safe, good and affordable products on our table. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u288	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After a year and three months, the Greens and the NAP are again presenting, in this House, two initiatives that had already been clearly rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u290	See if this is what the PSD supports!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u291	However, the presentation of these two draft laws, whose title and content is very similar, may have various meanings. One of them is that you cannot understand that the will of this Parliament is not your way. The second is that there may be such a big change in some parliamentary groups that they are now available to vote in favour of these initiatives. The third — and I think it is the right thing — is that the vision of the Greens and the NAP of the agricultural world and rural development is so limited that it concentrates on three or four initiatives, which, even more so, are deeply penalizing our farmers, our economic and social fabric and our country and only obey your ideological prejudices. Mrs. Members, a year ago, the PSD reinforces the ideas it listed in the previous debate. [[Protests by PCP Members Carla Cruz and João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u292	It is not worth reading the previous intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u293	Calm down, Mrs. Deputy! The initiatives under discussion ignore science and even statistical standards regarding the confidence interval and margin of error, but that no longer surprises us. These parties are not interested or interested in science, and at the moment they want to use labelling for their political electoral purposes and not to increase transparency for the consumer or to enhance national production. Mrs. Members, do not forget that these parties, who now want to label GMOs, are exactly the same ones that they once intended to introduce vegetable drinks, especially soy drinks, into the school programme. But we know that soy drinks, in addition to having a large carbon footprint and coming from third countries, are practically all derived from GMOs. Therefore, «the boot does not beat with the partridge», Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! These are also the parties that are said to be advocates of small agriculture and family farming. Well, ladies. Members, these measures end with small agriculture and family farming.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u294	But why? Oh, my God! Tell me! See if you have the courage to explain why!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u295	Mrs. Members, Portugal already has very strict rules with regard to the labelling of GMOs and an enormous control in the production and marketing of foodstuffs,... [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]] ... that guarantee the Portuguese population quality and food safety. The PSD is and will always be on the side of the national agricultural producers. So, yes, it defends a reinforcement of the labelling but about the place of origin, so that the Portuguese know exactly where what they are consuming.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u296	Are you going to know the corn's pronunciation? Oh, my God! Are you going to see if you're talking with the accent of Ferreira do Alentejo or Vieira do Minho? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u297	We are not available to create more barriers to the production, flow and marketing of our agricultural products. Mrs. Members of the Greens and the NAP, if they want, as I have seen that they have a lot of difficulty in setting up new initiatives, the PSD, which has many, can give you away from its, these, yes, to value national production and national producers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u298	Mr André Silva, who still has some time left, signed up for a new intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not clear how they can conclude that information about the presence of GMOs in a product may put Portuguese producers in a disadvantage situation. They have just confirmed that this is information that can condition consumer choices and, even knowing that, they opt to omit that information on the basis of economic arguments. PS, CDS and PSD prefer to continue to hide information from consumers so that they do not have to assume that their protected meat and milk producers mass feed GMO-based feed animals. PS, CDS and PSD choose not to defend the right to information, the interests of consumers, by ringing relevant information to protect the interests of the polluting meat and milk production industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u300	To close this debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that if a parliamentary group re-presents a project in the Assembly of the Republic, it is because it gives it great importance and wants to promote the debate towards the other parliamentary groups to be called upon to reason so that they can change their position. I think that's perfectly legitimate!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u302	PSD is a lost case!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u303	What I don't understand is that the PSD makes statements using complete strawberries, such as that the approval of this consumer information project on the presence of GMOs in certain foods will end up with family farming. We ask Mr Nuno Serra to explain why. You've never been able to explain why! I wonder if you hope that Monsanto will prove to be of interest to you and your right to make small farmers depend on your seeds and herbicides?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u305	Ah, I saw that it was because of Monsanto!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u306	Yes, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS, it is important to say that the word 'demagogy' does not fit in the Greens' project.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u307	I talked about demagogy for the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u308	Perhaps the word "innocency" in the CDS speech should be used? Don't! It is the word 'ideology', because the CDS will like to continue to give in to Monsanto's interests — which I repeat, like to correlate seed with herbicide — and many more will come, at the will of the European Union and its relations with the United States of America, which, as you know, are confronted with the issue of the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. What is truly scary, in addition to the interventions of the PSD and the CDS, is the intervention of the PS, which said that we cannot benefit, let us say, consumers with the information they are entitled to, because this would bring additional costs that are not bearable and would require more supervision. In addition — see! — Mrs Lucia Araújo Silva even considers that feeding an animal with transgenic ration does not have any effect on that animal or on the human being who will consume it. Madam Member, I think there is a great misinformation or, at least, a very large neglect in this matter of genetically modified organisms. In fact, when we talk about consumer rights, it is more valuable that we assume them in full. We cannot understand, regardless of the position of the parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u309	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u310	I shall conclude, Mr President. Regardless of the position of the parliamentary groups on the cultivation and marketing of genetically modified organisms, we do not consider it feasible or acceptable to withhold information from the consumer. If it is technically possible to do so, then consumers have the right to have that information. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u311	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the conclusion of the discussion of the Drafts of Law Nos 937 / XIII / 3. a and 1100 / XIII / 4. we have reached the end of our agenda today. Meanwhile, Secretary Emília Santos will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to Resolution Projects Nos. 1980/ XIII/4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the contractualization with the private and social housing sectors for students of moving higher education, which falls to 8. the Commission, 1981 / XIII / 4. a ( unregistered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira ) — Recommends that the Government negotiate with the European Commission the reduction of the medium-term objective for public finances, which falls to 5. the Commission, 1982 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Effective recruitment and integration within the RTP staff of workers who respond to permanent needs in Madeira RTP, which falls to 12. the Commission, 1983 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the key and security systems business sector, which is lower than 1. the Commission, 1984 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government intervene immediately to break national gas export isolation which falls to 6. the Commission. Bill Nos 1126 / XIII / 4 also entered. a ( CDS-PP ) — Approves the status of informal caregivers and sets out measures to support caretakers and their caregivers ( Amends the Single Persons Income Tax Code ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 1127 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Implements and disciplines the family care regime, which falls to 10. the Commission. Parliamentary Opinions Nos 115 / XIII / 4 were also entered. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, which establishes the remuneration scheme applicable to the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career and 116 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 5 / 2019 of 14 January, which lays down the procedures necessary for the regularization of the debts of local authorities in the water and sewage sector. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-02-14.u313	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it remains to be announced that the agenda for tomorrow's session will include a debate on public higher education required by BE, in which the joint discussion of the following legislative initiatives will take place, with the draft laws being discussed in general: Bills No. 1106 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Set the end of the tips in public higher education graduates and integrated masters, 1107 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions, 1108 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Creates a maximum ceiling for the value of 2. o is 3. the cycles of studies in public higher education; Resolution Projects Nos 1968 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Set a deadline for the transfer of the first amount relating to scholarships for higher education students, 1969 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Emergency plan for student accommodation, 1970 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — By creating a national table of fees and emoluments in public higher education; Projects of Law Nos 1115 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Increase in the value of scholarships in public higher education, 1116 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Establishs a transitional system for the exemption of propines in public higher education, 1117 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Determines as the only consequence of failure to pay the tips the non-recognition of the academic act, 1118 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of fees and emoluments in public higher education institutions, 1119 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Phased elimination of propines in public higher education, 1120 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary temporary accommodation plan for students in public higher education, 1121 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Alter to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August establishing debt regulation mechanisms for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions, 878 / XIII / 3. a ( The Greens) — Alter Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August fixing a progressive decrease in the value of the tips paid by higher education students, and Draft Resolution No 1012 / XIII / 2. a (The Greens) — For the progressive free of charge of public higher education, we will have regiment votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 20 minutes.]]
