ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries to the public. Before we begin the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to take account of the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the Drafts of Law No 1221 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Allows the collection of moderate rates in primary health care and other health benefits where the source of reference for these is the National Health Service ( the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November 2011 ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1222 / XIII / 4. a ( NAP) — Visa the protection of migratory and winter bird species through the prohibition of the mechanized harvest of olives during the night period, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1223 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Visa means the prohibition of the manufacture, possession, use and sale of devices which only serve for the capture of wild birds, which falls to 11. the Commission. Resolution Nos 2184 / XIII / 4 were also entered in the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the development of a national programme for the production of certified seed, which falls to 7. the Commission, 2185 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Consecrates on June 17 as National Day in Memory of the Victims of the Forest Fires, 2186 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government regulate and adopt measures to combat the impact of light pollution on the environment, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 2187 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a legislative framework for collective self-consumption and for renewable energy communities, which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us start the agenda with the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. To put questions, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u4	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the PPP (public-private partnership) of the Hospital de Braga sent the most complex cases to the Hospital do Porto, the PPP of Cascais faked clinical screenings and tokens to increase revenues for each case at the cost of user safety, the PPP of Loures is the example of public-private promiscuity, with an assistant director who accumulates with the clinical direction of the Hospital private da Luz and the PPP of Vila Franca de Gira was denounced by the Health Regulatory Entity for having for years hospitalized users in restaurants, against their safety or dignity and enhancing hospital infections. The State pays these four PPPs almost 500 million euros each year. The Government has already announced the non-renewal of two of them and one investigation to another. It has publicly assumed criticism of existing PPPs. The Left Block supports the government's decision not to renew the PPPs of Braga and Vila Franca de Xira and it also wants that, in the case of Vila Franca de Xira, this will result in the public management of the hospital. Our essential divergence about PPP is therefore only one: if this is the balance sheet, should a new basic health law leave the door open to creating new PPPs in the future?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u5	You must!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u6	on Tuesday, this specific point of the proposal for a basic law is voted on. My question is this: why does the PS insist on leaving the door open to a business that proved to be ruinous to the state and dangerous to users?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u8	It will tell me that it is not in your plans to increase the income paid to the private in the National Health Service, and I believe so. But a basic law not only serves to frame your government, the basic law must be a security for the future. I am glad that the current government does not renew bad contracts. What about the following governments? It was good for the Government in its original proposal to withdraw this possibility from the law to continue the PPPs. It was Mr Prime Minister who said, in a fortnight debate, that there is here in this Parliament, who has always looked at the SNS (National Health Service) not as the guarantee of care for the entire population, but as a large cake of billions of euros with which they can enrich private economic groups. And you're absolutely right! So why allow the door to privatize the management of the National Health Service? Is it not our obligation, the obligation of this majority, to guarantee a law that protects future health care for the entire population from the vertigo of who makes the disease a business? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u9	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u10	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, the central issue of the basic health law is not focused on PPPs. The basic health law focuses on an essential issue that has been dragged since the 1990s : that is consistent with the constitutional vision of the National Health Service, with a National Public Health Service, universally and trendily free, and ending a law of health bases that since the 1990s, sees as the function of the State the promotion of the private sector, making it competitive with the public sector. We must end this misunderstanding and say that the obligation of the State to the Portuguese in health matters is organized through the National Health Service, that the National Health Service is the backbone of our health care provision and that the collaboration of the social sector or the private sector must have a complementary, temporary and complementary nature. This is the fundamental clarification that needs to be made in the basic health law, which, precisely, is not for this government or this legislature, must be a law for all governments and all legislatures and must therefore have a lasting duration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is of no use to us a basic law which is repealed on the first day when a new majority is formed in this House of the Republic. What we are interested in is a basic law that has the duration corresponding to that of our Constitution and an extended agreement that has to be established for the National Health Service to be today, tomorrow and always the backbone of the health system in Portugal. That's what we have to make sure. For this to happen, this law, currently based on the bases that have already been voted in an indicative way, demonstrates very significant advances, in particular with regard to the exemption from moderate rates, the clarification of relations between the public sector and the private sector and exclusive dedication. The basis for PPPs has not yet been voted. I know what the Government Programme says: there are no new PPPs in the area of management, objectively evaluate the outcome of each PPP that is in force and, as a result, make decisions. As you know, of the evaluations that were made, two were positive. in one of them, the concessionary party understood that it was necessary to review the contract, we did not accept and therefore terminated. in another, even last week, due to the negative assessment, we made the decision not to give it continuity. This is the situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u11	The one in Cascais was banging the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u12	As regards Cascais, and in the face of the doubts raised, an investigation was instituted, since it did not correspond to the overall assessment that had been made.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u13	Yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u14	What would be a huge mistake from a political point of view, from a strategic point of view, and from the duty that we have to defend the National Health Service was that, because of a rule of a basic law, if it called into question the enormous advance which means the new law of health bases and which puts an end to the law of bases of Cavaco Silva. That would be serious and a huge mistake! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u15	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government Programme said to evaluate the PPP model to see whether they continue or not. The government evaluated the model and drew a draw, i.e. it did not prove that PPPs were better for management than public management, but now we know that privates have manipulated the criteria to draw, i.e., they are worse! So we're going to take consequences and end the PPPs? More: if PPPs are not relevant, why do we want to keep them in the basic law, when we know that it is impossible to end promiscuity between public and private? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, this debate has already been held in a number of ways, and although we are doing so in a healthier way. The Left Block does not want to end private medicine and respects the legitimate choice of anyone who wants to use the private and social sector. We do not even advocate, ever, that the State simply ceases to contract with the private. With regard to haemodialysis, 90 % is done by the private sector, 90 % of the continuing care is done with the social sector and where the State has no offer must contract to ensure this benefit, but only when it does not and while it does not. We agree. What's in issue is something else. in PPPs, what we are deciding is whether we deliver to private hospitals that are public, if it makes sense the State submits the management of public hospitals to the logic of private profitability and thus maintain an inevitable promiscuity between public interest and private management.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u18	Tell us there's an ideological obsession with the Left Block. So let's call it ideology. Would the Prime Minister admit to handing over management from a public university to a private company? Would you admit that the Higher Technical Institute was managed by Lusíada University or that the management of the University of Porto was delivered to Fernando Pessoa University? I would admit that the 2nd. a Division of the PSP, in the Olives, was it delivered to the Prosecur or Vale de Judeus to Security? Wouldn't you admit it, Mr. Prime Minister? Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u20	We do not want to close the University of Lusíada or Security, continue to do their work, but what is public must have public management. Why would you want to open a door in your health that would never accept you to open yourself at university or in internal security? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u21	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u22	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, I didn't accuse you of having an ideology, because having ideology is not sin. And if it is, I do too, because I also have my ideology. It is not sin, it is healthy and desirable. It is also normal for political families and political parties to distinguish themselves by ideological issues and by a different way of looking at the world. On this question in particular, what puts an end to and needs clarification at the level of a basic law is the situation in the current Basic Law. Against the Constitution and against the meaning of the National Health Service, what the current Basics Law says is that it is the duty of the State to promote the private sector, in a logic of competition to the public sector. The clarification that is essential to be made at the level of a basic law is to say that the State fulfils the Constitution and its duty towards the Portuguese by organizing a National Health Service that should be universal, tendingly free and public and that the relationship with the private must have a complementary, supplementary and temporary nature. This is what must be said in the law of bases! [[P.S.'s applause.]] After the basic law, there are other regulatory levels and, in this case, it is normal and healthy that there may be flexibility. I can tell you what our position in this government and in the next government we form: it is the understanding that we have stated at the beginning of this legislature that we will not make new PPPs in the area of management and we will renew, or not, those that are in force on the basis of the evaluation that has been made. That's our position. however, we have gained much in not transforming the law of health bases into an institutional conflict between Parliament, the President of the Republic, the current majority and future majority and, on the contrary, in making a law of health bases that is not a term contract until the end of a legislation with the current majority, but that it is a law of health base for the next decades, for the Portuguese, whatever majority the Portuguese choose for this Assembly of the Republic. If you can guarantee me that this majority will exist forever, we can speak in a way, but it is a guarantee that you certainly cannot give, because you assumed to end democracy. And this must be a basic law for democracy and democracy must lead to the alternance of the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u23	Mr Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, who has to make the basic health law is this majority. It is not the President of the Republic, it is not a near majority, it is our responsibility! Now! [[Congratulations from BE.]] And we're here to do it! The appeal I leave to you, Prime Minister, is that you do not put the law of health bases in question to defend PPPs, which have so far only brought deception to the state and promiscuity between the public and the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u26	A year and a half ago, Prime Minister, we were together in presenting the basic health law proposed by John Semedo and Antonio Arnaut to save the SNS. He heard, as I heard, the clear warning that they left us: the only utility of PPPs is to be the investment bank of private hospitals, they are an instrumentalization of the Health Budget for private hospitals. That is why we have a choice to make: either the wisdom of ensuring access to health with a National Public Health Service and contracting with the private only when and if necessary or the radicalism of putting public resources to guarantee the health business. We choose access to the health of the whole population; PPPs are not symbolic, they are the center of promiscuity! Mr President, with your tolerance, I leave Mr Prime Minister with another very brief question: the deterioration of the supply of public transport is well known and must be combated quickly. I would like to give you an example: CP ( Trains of Portugal) is closing services due to lack of workers and the government has agreed to hire 145 new workers who will be working by the end of June, among drivers, drivers, revisions and tickets. But he's still only opened a contest for 14 maneuverers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u27	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u28	What I want to know is whether the government is going to breach another agreement and the CP will end up abolishing more trains. Mr Prime Minister, collective transport — train, boats or buses — is not only a right of mobility of the population as the first response to the climate emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u29	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u30	The Government — and I shall finish, Mr President — must release the minimum investment necessary for the operation of public transport. It has a State Budget and it is not acceptable for it to be closed in the drawer of Mário Centeno. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u31	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u32	Mr President, Madam Member, the time available is not very long and I am going to the essence: PPPs represent 4 % of the expenditure on health — 4 % of the expenditure on health! Therefore, transforming into a central issue of the health debate which represents 4% of the expenditure and not looking at 96% of what is the activity in the National Health Service is to be confusing the tree with the forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, you may want to build a political case, but if, instead of wanting to build a political case, you want to build the National Health Service for the 21st century, what you have to do is approve the law of health bases that we have the opportunity to approve in this legislature and with the current majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is where we should concentrate and not waste energy on what is worth 4 %. And if there is anything that this government has already proved throughout this legislature, it does not need to change the law of bases to end PPPs when it was necessary for them to finish either by their own will or by the result of the evaluation that was made. So we don't need a basic law for this to happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u33	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u34	More: we also have no idea, naive, that it is enough to change, today, the law of bases to prevent new PPPs tomorrow. There must be a new majority in this Assembly of the Republic. So let us not sacrifice what is essential around what is accessory, however rhetorical it may seem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u35	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to ask questions, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the last fortnight debate, which was on 13 May, I asked you about the debt of the Ministry of Health to firearm corporations, which in February this year exceeded EUR 35 million. At first, Mr. Prime Minister said you knew that I was going to ask Mr. Minister of Health. Asked to Mrs. Minister of Health, I presume, Mrs. Minister of Health will be told and Mr. Prime Minister has reproduced: "The indication of Mrs. Minister of Health is that the debt is paid. Do not keep on seeking. ” It happens, however, that, days later, the President of the Firearms League came to say, and I quote, textually: "The Minister of Health has deceived the Prime Minister by saying that they have already paid the Portuguese firefighters what they owe. And it's a lie. The Ministry of Health owes more than EUR 35 million to transport patients every day they do. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Prime Minister, I ask you: do you not want to take this opportunity to apologize to the honourable Members and the Portuguese for missing the truth when you said that the Ministry of Health's debt to firefighters was paid? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u37	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u38	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, there is certainly an error of information or of the Member or of the President of the Firearms League. The information that we have and that, in fact, the Minister of Health has already had the opportunity to escalate here in the Assembly of the Republic, is that, at this time, and with the EUR 4 million that were paid during the month of May, there are no payments late to the Portuguese firefighters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u39	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u40	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, we have maintained this difference... [[That's it?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u41	... because I have also shouldered the debt with Mr. President of the Firearms League and others and this is, in fact, more than EUR 35 million. But we will certainly have a chance to maintain this discussion. Mr. Prime Minister, we recall that in 2016 there was a reversal of the privatisation process of TAP, in which the state was 50 %. That was a flag, I would say, ideologically the government — and we all remember — and Mr Prime Minister assured that "the government does not intend to intervene in the executive management of the TAP" — were these words. The Court of Auditors came to an audit and left this criticism: « The Court of Auditors criticizes the company's repurchasing by the State, which continues not to send, despite being the biggest shareholder. It takes more risks than the private ones and is solely responsible for debt. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Prime Minister today, we know that TAP has EUR 100 million of damage and that it has distributed bonuses, some of them very significant, by some of its internal managers. What did the government do? The government simply accused and criticized this distribution of bonuses. Mr. Prime Minister, do you think it was worth this reversal or was it just to entertain the Bloc and the PCP? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u42	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u43	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, look, here, was not an ideological issue. It was really a matter of protecting national sovereignty. A country with our geographical position, with the territorial discontinuity that has, with the dispersion of its diaspora, can not fail to ensure that, whatever there is, with the private, who are its shareholders, we will maintain and survive with an airline, because we are not in Brussels, where it can one day close the Sabena and be born next week Brussels Airlines. We are unfortunately not in Brussels and therefore we must ensure that, whatever happens to the private sector, there is a perennial entity, such as the State, which ensures the company's perenniality. Therefore, it was even a matter of affirmation of national sovereignty. Secondly, I do not discuss politics with the Court of Auditors, as I do not discuss judicial matters with the Court of Auditors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I respect the separation of powers, but I also demand that they respect the separation of powers. That was what I lacked to admit that the Court of Auditors would allow it to discuss with those with whom democratic legitimacy is to govern political governance options. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u44	Don't! This is not the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. This is a violation of the principle of separation of powers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, and as it is public and notorious—it must have read in the social communication—the state administrators have today convened an extraordinary meeting of the Board of Directors, precisely to examine a decision taken by the Executive Commission on the distribution of model prizes that we, as a state shareholder, understand incompatible with the standards of sobriety that must exist in the companies in which the State participates. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u45	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, territorial cohesion and national sovereignty, in this respect, is guaranteed by giving all Portuguese the possibility of moving in conditions. I will only give you the example of what is happening in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, where flights are abolished, where flights are systematically delayed. In other words, Madeirans and those who want to go to Madeira do not have effective freedom of movement. But, Prime Minister, I now turn to the question of public transport. Anyone normal thinks lowering the price of social passes is a good thing. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u47	Less PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u48	No, we think, Prime Minister. What happens is that you and your party are very skilled at building narratives for other political parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u49	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u50	They're very good at it! Just as any normal person thinks that, by lowering the price of social passes, it is normal that the search increases. It turns out there was something wrong with them. Mr. Prime Minister has lowered the price of social passes, but he has not created any more transport responses. Mr. Prime Minister, the question is: what happened? Were the elections? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to answer you fully, is there any question that I can only ask you, excuse me: is it in favour or against the reduction in the price of social passes? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u53	Mr Fernando Negrão, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u54	Mr President, I do not have to answer to Mr Prime Minister. Answer V. Exa! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u55	Calm down! Calm down! Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u56	Mr President, the PSD presented, in the context of the discussion of the State budget, a proposal to lower the price of social passes throughout the national territory, which was plunged by the bench of the Socialist Party and the rest of the benches. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u57	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor, if you want to comment or answer this answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u58	Mr President, Mr Fernão Negrão, the Member voted against the reduction of social passes in Lisbon, Porto and throughout the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u59	contrary to what has been the persistent campaign of the PSD and, in particular, of its President, induced by error, certainly by the information that you have transmitted to him, the truth is that this measure is extensible to all CIM(intermunicipal communities) and in all CIMs in the country there is a reduction in the price of social passes, in the manner in which each CIM has defined. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, if you would like to speak to any president of the PSD, anyone would say that in your territory you have lowered the price of the social pass because your CIM has lowered the price of the social pass. It was not the government who did it, it was the metropolitan areas, it was the CIM, it was the autarchs, the PCP, the PS, the PSD and even the CDS, who lowered the price of the company passes. They did it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, it is time, as I said, to reconcile with what is normal, that it is we all understand that the reduction in the price of the social pass was the most powerful instrument for promoting the use of public transport and the most powerful policy instrument to combat the excess of CO2 emissions, for the decarbonization of the economy and for tackling climate change. Yes, if we want to address climate change urgently, it is necessary to reduce the price of the social pass, it is necessary to improve accessibility to public transport. That's what we're doing. And that is what we shall continue to do, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u60	Mr Fernando Negrão continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u61	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, once again I insist that the PSD submit a proposal to reduce the cost of social passes, in the context of the discussion of the last State budget, and that the party of which you are Secretary-General has led this proposal. Mr. Prime Minister, I always like to hear these long explanations, which, we know well, do not correspond to the truth on a number of issues. It is that, Mr. Prime Minister, has indeed lowered the price of social passes in Lisbon and Porto,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u62	No, all over the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u63	... but it happens, Mr. Prime Minister, that this was not accompanied by the measures necessary to provide Portuguese transport so that they could arrive, in time and time, at work and at home, and the sacrifices they made were duplicated with what happened. Mr. Prime Minister, the measure he took was lame, almost to the edge of futility, because what he created was revolting in Portuguese. And it wasn't because it lowered the cost of social passes, it was because it didn't provide adequate transport to the Portuguese. And don't say the opposite of this, because if you do, you'll be lying again. This is our speech. This is our narrative. Mr. Prime Minister, CP reported that between 23 June and 7 September on the Sintra Line, there will be only two trains per hour, instead of the four currents, because of school holidays. Mr Prime Minister, when the current links are manifestly insufficient, do you think this measure makes sense? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u64	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u65	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, we have started this work since the beginning of the Legislature, when we stopped privatization of the Carris, the metro and the STCP ( Corporation of Collective Transport of the Port ). That's where we started this policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We continue this policy when we decentralise the competences for the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. And if you don't understand what this means, I give you just one suggestion: I call Mr. President of the Mayor's Chamber of Mafra and he explains how Mafra's families save more than 100 € per month thanks to the unique social pass, which today operates in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have continued to implement the long-term and medium-term measures. In the long term, with the acquisition of new compositions for the CP, the Lisbon metro and the Port metro, and 700 new buses for all municipal systems of collective transport throughout the country. We also do so by repairing the subway cars that were stopped due to lack of maintenance — there were 30 that were stopped and, at the moment, they are all circulating — repairing the metro safety systems, so as to increase the commercial speed, which today resumed the 60 km/h and which, thanks to this measure, increased the capacity of the metro in Lisbon by 5 %, and resumed the repair of the ships of Soflusa and Transtejo, so that today we have in Soflusa a reserve ship and, in Transtejo, two reserve vessels. What happened that day and that week was, on the one hand, a strike that paralyzed ships that were ready to sail and on the other, a problem on the Sintra Line, with the catenary, which affected the generality of the compositions regarding the electrical voltage, catenary that which is repaired and is working, being restored to normal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u66	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u67	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I strongly advise you to take a trip on a boat from Soflusa, from Barreiro to Lisbon in the morning, or from Lisbon to Barreiro in the late afternoon, along with the Portuguese who make it daily, without conditions and with sacrifice, due to the manifest lack of transport in this route. I strongly advise you to do so! Mr Prime Minister, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos came to apologize in a debate we had here last week because of the state in which public transport is involved. Mr. Minister has come to make an apology! And you came to admit the existence of unacceptable situations and demand immediate solutions in public services—it was as clear as this. Apparently, they were steps of great humility. But that, Prime Minister, only for those who are distracted, because we, here on this bench, in almost every session, have raised questions about the quality of public services. And your answer is always that the PSD makes case policy. Every time we report a situation, the charge is that the PSD is a case policy, and they refuse to respond. Mr Prime Minister, in view of these new facts, which is not only the request for an apology from Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, such as the statements by you, what will you do and when to solve the problems that, in your words, need an immediate solution? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u68	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u69	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, for four years, the logic that presided over the management of public enterprises was not the transport of people, it was the production of EBITA ( Savings Before Interest, Taxes and Amortization ). It was great the pride with which it was presented and it was the EBITA that was balanced. [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] Do you know what the outcome was? Between 2011 and 2015 there was a 10 % decrease in the number of passengers, 14 % in the supply, and 12 % in the human resources. And you know what happened from 2015 to today? There was an increase of 13 % in the number of passengers, 10 % in the offer and 5 % in the human resources. What we must continue to do is strengthen human resources, equipment and maintenance capacity in order to continue to improve the quality of supply. Yes, because, obviously, improved accessibility allowed only in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area to increase the number of passengers by 167 000 in the public transport system as a whole. We must therefore continue this investment path. And that's what we're doing, that's what the Lisbon Metropolitan Area and the Port Metropolitan Area are doing in order to improve the quality of public services. We are doing this in transport, as we are doing in the issue of the Citizen's Card or in the issue of the passport or in other public services that were being broken. And thanks to the measures we have taken, fortunately today, we are already having results. If you would like to know, from day to day, what improvements we are having, for example in the issue of the Citizenship Card, I can tell you, thanks to these measures that we have already taken and which are already taking effect. If you ask me whether we can go on vacation now, I say that we can't, we can't go on vacation, we must continue to work, because we need to continue to improve the quality of public services provided to Portuguese. It's very easy to destroy and it's much harder to rebuild. But we do not give up the difficult and here we are to rebuild the service capacity of all public services, whether of the citizen stores, whether of the citizen card, whether of the subway, whether of the Caris, whether of the CP, whether of the Soflusa, or of the Transtejo. We are here to solve the problems and that is what we will continue to do: solve the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u70	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am speaking to you about bankruptcy in public transport, and you answer me with EBITA. It's the right answer to run away from the answer you can't give me. That's why you take advantage of these phrases that you so much like to use. Mr Prime Minister, in his list of unacceptable problems and in need of immediate solutions, Mr Prime Minister, curiously never talks about what is going on in social security services, a situation qualified by the Ombudsman for public harassment — harassment, Mr Prime Minister! Do you not think that, too in this area, an apology should be made to the Portuguese? I ask you, Prime Minister: do you not think that there are problems as never in the payment of reforms, disability and survival pensions, medical leave and unemployment benefits? And do you think it is natural, Mr Prime Minister, that the same state that makes noises on the roads and even personal goods, sometimes due to debts of small amounts, is the same state that owes more than two years to reforms and pensions to citizens, leaving them in many cases to live without any income? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u72	Mr Fernando Negrão, Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, but he will certainly face the possibility of answering these questions in another context. Mr João Paulo Correia, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u73	Mr President, Prime Minister, this PSD speech on public services is only « crocodile tears ». The PSD wants the country and the Portuguese to forget what was the last government, but we don't forget. It has been the darkest cycle of public services in Portugal since 25 April. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We do not forget the cuts, we do not forget the closures, we do not forget the cuts and we do not forget the privatisations. It was time for the privatization of TTCs, which led to a degradation of universal postal service. It was time for the degradation of the public transport service, that time when you reduced the supply, reducing the number of careers, reducing the schedules, reducing the buses and also reducing the number of compositions on the railway lines, as happened here very close to the Sintra Line, where many dozens of compositions per day were reduced at the end of 2011. It was also the time when they cut staff in all public transport companies, including EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, S.A. ), a company dedicated to the maintenance of rolling stock. It was still the time of cutting in the maintenance of the circulating material and it was also the time of the increase in the price of social passes, from sub23 and 4 - 18. And all this was done in the name of a privatization agenda. It is that if PSD and CDS were government today we would already have a number of public privatized transport companies. We would have STCP, Lisbon Metropolitan, Carris and privatized EMEF and fully privatized TAP. And today it would be impossible to claim more and better service to these companies because they would be in the hands of private people. The Portuguese know that if the PSD and the CDS were government there would no longer be public transport service and much less there would be a single pass, because the PSD never hid from this measure. We also did not forget the great programme presented in the time of the previous government, the PETI3 + ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure 3 + ), in which they announced and promised works worth EUR 6 billion, but this government, when it took possession and assumed functions, discovered that EUR 1400 million and promised works did not have any kind of source of financing and the projects were empty, embedded in the drawer. in the financial sector, the PSD sought to do to the General Deposit Box what it did to the CTT. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If they were government today, PSD and CDS would have done to the General Deposit Box what they did to the TTCs. And that only didn't happen because a new majority took office and here in Parliament blocked this take-up of the PSD and CDS in the General Deposit Box. But it was also the time of cuts and disinvestment in the National Health Service. The former government cut more than EUR 1000 million in the National Health Service, increased the moderate rates, reduced the number of professionals by 2850 and cut the income and rights of these same professionals. It was a cycle of degradation of the National Health Service, which was invested by this government, and the Portuguese know it. Prime Minister, public investment fell 55 % in the time of the previous government. When the PS reached the government, it had a package of Community funds in absolute paralysis, but with the new momentum given to PT2020, in 2017, public investment grew 24 %, which, with the exception of 2010, constitutes the greatest growth of the last 20 years. And it grew again in 2018, this time 11%. in the last two years, public investment growth was 37 %, four times more than the growth seen in the last few years of the previous government. By 2019, public investment will grow by around 10 % and will reach EUR 4400 million. One of the most desired public investments is that of the new pediatric wing of the hospital of São João. In addition, last week in its health inquiry, the PSD again brought this issue as a political weapon, but this issue should make the previous government, especially the PSD, feel ashamed.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u75	Because the former Prime Minister was twice at the hospital of St John to launch the first stone of this work, when he knew that he had no project and that he had no source of funding. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Who cheated who? It was the former government that deceived the professionals of the hospital of São João, families and patients. Whoever cheated them was the PSD, who should be ashamed to throw twice the first stone of a work that never started at that time, which they knew had no project or any kind of financing. So, Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you some questions about the pediatric wing of the hospital in São João. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you: do you confirm that the project has been delivered? What is your technical review and preparation of the procedure by direct adjustment? That the Joãozinho Association returned the possession of the land? What is the idea that the work can begin this year? I also ask Mr. Prime Minister, it is confirmed that the relocation of pediatric oncology has already been carried out, that funding for this investment is fully guaranteed and that the Government will fulfil its commitment to children, parents, families and professionals at the hospital in São João. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u76	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u77	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, indeed in the face of the problems, what it is for a government is to face them and try to solve them. There are some who resolve quickly, but there are others who unfortunately do not resolve quickly. What matters is that we never focus on what is essential. Our responsibility is to solve the problem. The question of the pediatric wing of Saint John had been dragged for more than 10 years. He won great public fame a few months ago. After many controversys, and even an unmet availability from the PSD to enable agile hiring of the new works, the truth is that, on May 31st, the children who were previously housed in the containers became conditionally housed in the hospital building of São João. This was indeed a problem for which we found a response, without prejudice to the work that will be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way, we have been looking for answers to the generality of other problems. A short time ago, Mr Fernando Negrão was talking about the social security situation. Many months ago, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa raised the issue here and we made the commitment to having the situation regularized by the end of this first semester. The fact is that, from the beginning of the year to now, more than 77,400 new pensions have already been processed, only in the last month have more than 22 000 new pensions been processed, and today the President of the Republic has promulgated the Government's decree which allows the survival and disability pensions to be generalised the possibility of paying, as a provisional settlement, the amount of pensions resulting from the simulator. It will therefore be possible to generalize all from today on. With this, we are succeeding in fulfilling our commitment here to having the situation regularized until the end of this semester. The same is true of the Citizen's Card. Whether it was for a huge increase in applications from Brexit or a huge increase in applications from the new law of nationality, we have seen serious problems and serious delays since the beginning of this year. The first fundamental measure adopted was to allow all citizens to renew the Citizenship Card without having to recollect biometric data, as they are immutable. With this, it has already been possible for 26 000 citizens to be treated more quickly. Since May 20, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon — and also, briefly, in the Metropolitan Area of Porto — the possibility of renewal of the Citizen's Card has been extended to several places of service. There are already 31 service stations in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and we will extend the range of service stations of the Metropolitan Area of Porto. With this, 2422 applications have already been dealt with. As a result of these measures, the truth is that, from May 29 until now, the service passwords have been exhausted only in one day, both in the Pereira de Melo Fountains and in the Laranjeiras. at this moment, with a single exception, every day, either in the Laranjeiras, or in the Sources Pereira de Melo, stopped exhausting the service passwords soon in the morning. However, two very important measures will enter into force next June. The first is that, following an SMS (Short Message System ) that alerts people, two months in advance, to the need to renew the Citizen's Card, a proposal for a date and time of service will be sent to deal with this renewal, so that people will know, safely and in due time, when they can do it. The second measure consists of, from the second fortnight of this month, the possibility of online renewal for all citizens over 25 years old. This was a measure that only existed for citizens over the age of 60 and will exist for everyone over the age of 25 and will be an added way of decongesting services and, above all, of greater comfort for each one. I also point out that, during July, they will be opened in the Lisbon area, which is where the situation of greatest rupture occurs, three new spaces: the new Saldanha City Shop, which will ultimately replace the City Store of the Restorators, closed long ago; the former space of the IRN (Instituto dos Registros e do Notariado) in the Areeiro; and a space of the City Hall of Lisbon, in Entrecampos, that we will reuse for also there is the issue of new citizenship cards. With this, we are effectively responding to problems, which does not mean that there are no situations of exception where the problems affect a huge dramaticity. This is what happens when there is a strike, such as that of the master of the Soflusa, which generated the dramatic situation that last week lived in the Barreiro, or the situation of a failure in the system of electrical supply of the Sintra Line, which, for two days, generated a dramatic situation, but which, fortunately, does not correspond to the standard and rule of the situation in the CP. I will give you a number that may surprise the generality of people: since the beginning of the year, the CP regularity index is 99.5%, which means that, in a total of 35 968 trains that were supposed to have circulated, there was the abolition of 185. Obviously this was a total and absolute drama for every citizen who was going to catch the train that was suppressed, but we have to realize what we are talking about: in a system that carries out almost 40 000 trips over a semester, we have to understand what it means 185 suppressions. That is what we need to take into account when evaluating a system, so that we do not « lie outside, with the bath water, the boy we must preserve». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u78	Even in the time of the PS Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to ask questions, Mr Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, the Government to which you have been presiding, since early on, has expressed a clear concern about the mobility and transport system. If not, such concern would not be the generality of policy guidance documents as well as the planning instruments formulated by this government, as being central to government activity. From then on, in the National Reform Programme, the Government takes on the promotion of policies that enhance the transformation of Portuguese behaviours and mobility practices: regaining public transport service and returning mobility to citizens, increasing quality of life—that is the proposed goal. in the National Investment Plan investments in transport and mobility amounting to EUR 12 765 million are planned, taking rail as a high priority. The expansion works of the metro of Lisbon and the metro of Porto and the acquisition of circulating material will transform mobility in the metropolitan areas, being fundamental for competitiveness, for the affirmation of public transport and consequent decarbonization of cities. The transfer of urban, collective and road transport to the Metropolitan Area of Porto and to the municipality of Lisbon places the management of the service of the companies closest to the needs of each user. The tariff reduction support programme, with a total allocation of EUR 116 million, closes two objectives: on the one hand, to increase the income available to families — and does - considerably; on the other hand, to achieve more public transport users — and to do so considerably. Railway 2020 is underway, with the electrification of the Caíde-Marco section and, in the north international corridor, with the integral renewal of the route between the Luso and the Trezói tunnel. As will happen with the modernization of the Covilhã-Guarda section and the construction of the agreement between the Beira Baixa Line and the Beira Alta Line. Already in the southern international corridor, the work of modernization of Elvas section at the border of Caia on the East Line is under way, and the largest railway work of the last 100 years has been launched. We also saw the full renewal of the Alfarelos-Pampilhos and Valadares-Gaia, as well as the electrification of the Mininho Line, between Nine and Viana do Castelo. Faced with a scenario of implementation of a global plan like the one we witnessed, there are issues that arise. Question : how is it possible to reconcile the recovery of public transport—and we talk about recovery for decades! — how is it being done, with the increase in expectable demand and the implementation of current policies? How does the current government view the increase in demand for river transport? How do we view the increase in demand in CP service? For questions of such complexity and response no less complex I would answer with the same simplicity as any alentejo like me: we feel well. in the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group we are enthusiastic about these paradigm changes, we are enthusiastic about collective transport and shared transport, we are enthusiastic about soft mobility and electric mobility, we are enthusiastic about carbon neutrality, we are enthusiastic about a modern country, a competitive country and a country with quality of life, we are enthusiastic about a better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u80	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u81	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, still today the Council of Ministers approved the Transition Plan for Carbon Neutrality in 2050. We were from the first countries to make this commitment by 2050 and today we have a concrete programme in the different areas of action to achieve this objective. One of them obviously has to do with the paradigm of mobility. That is why, until 2016, we approved Ferrovia 2020. You can discuss if it is more executed or if it is less executed,... [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] ... but there is something indisputable: before 2016 there was no Ferrovia 2020 and today it is already a completion, with completed work, with ongoing work, with work in competition and with work in the project phase. This means an action in the major regional corridors, either with the intervention in the Beira Alta and Beira Baixa Lines, either with the South Corridor, which mentioned here, either with the intervention of the electrification between the Port and Viana do Castelo or between the Port and Marco de Canaveses, either with the launch of the contest for the electrification of the West Line, either with the work, which is ongoing, which allows the reopening, at the end of 10 years, of the connection between Covilhã and Guarda. This is the set of interventions planned. under the last reprogramming, it was possible to create conditions for obtaining Community funds to allow intervention on a line of the worst quality of service, the Cascais Line. The former PSD and CDS government, which so much speak, so much speak, so much speak on the Cascais Line,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u82	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u83	... had no plans in Portugal 2020 to finance the intervention in the Cascais Line. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fortunately, thanks to the reprogramming that we negotiated and that the European Commission approved last December, we now have money to be able to intervene on the Cascais Line, which is fundamental to improving the quality of the service, renewing the compositions on that line. The investments we have been making, the order of 22 new compositions for the CP regional trains, the hiring of new employees for EMEF, to restore the ability to maintain and recover compositions that are immobilized due to lack of maintenance, and the rental of trains available to Renfe so that we can strengthen the supply are part of a set of measures that we have to take to respond in the short term to solutions that necessarily take time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u84	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u85	I will now finish, Mr President. We opened the competition for the 22 new compositions last year but only in 2022, 2023 will receive these compositions and the Country cannot stop there. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Until then, we have to go and find solutions, or for rent, which is not easy, because, with the limitations of our bottle, we can only resort to Spanish trains,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u86	You really have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u87	... or by what we can and should do, which is to recover, even in transitoryly, the tens and dozens of compositions that are paralyzed and that have not been maintained by the brutal disinvestment that was made in the EMEF, which we are now recovering and correcting. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u88	Relative tolerance, Prime Minister. Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u89	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, as you know, there are recommended maximum waiting times — in fact, the acronym is TMRG (maximum guaranteed response times) — for the first consultation of each specialty. Today, we have a system that allows us to know, in detail, each hospital, for each consultation, what is the practice when compared to the recommended time. I bring you some examples, 10 of the dozens that could bring, regarding the latest available data: at Hospital São Pedro, of Vila Real, for the consultation of angiology and vascular surgery the recommended maximum recommended time is 150 days and the effective waiting time for the consultation is 1010 of the possible time that could bring, regarding the latest available data: at Hospital São Pedro, of Vila Real, for the consultation of angiology and vascular surgery the recommended maximum time is 150 days and the recommended maximum recommended time for the recommended time is 150 days and the actual waiting time for the consultation for the consultation is 1053 days, nearly three years; at Hospital Sousa Martins, in Guard, at Hospital Sousa Martins, at Hospital Sousa Martins, at the time in Guard time, at the normal time of heart time, for the recommended maximum time, for the recommended time for the recommended time of the recommended time of the recommended for the recommended time ; at the recommended time of the recommended time ; at the recommended time for the recommended time ; at the recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended time of ; at the recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended time for consultation of ; at the recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended time for the time for the recommended time for the time for the recommended time for the recommended time for the time for the time for the time for the time for the time for the recommended for the time for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended is 150. the recommended for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended for surgery is the recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended time is the recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended for the recommended time for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended is 150.. The recommended time for the recommended time for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended time for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended time for the recommended for the recommended time for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended for the recommended is 15 surgery is 15 surgery is 15 surgery is the time for surgery is 15 surgery is 15 surgery is 150 dialog is 150 time for the time for the time for the time for the time for the time for the time for the time for the time for the time for the time Mr. Prime Minister, before this table, the CDS has proposed a very simple measure, moreover, inspired by the SIGIC (Integrated Management System for Surgery) for surgeries: when the National Health Service is unable to make the first expert consultation within the recommended period, the patient has the right to choose consultation at any other hospital, whether it is the social sector or the private sector. My question is simple: do the Government and the Prime Minister agree or not with this solution? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u90	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u91	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, obviously I take the correction of your numbers and no one can stop being impressed with what they represent, which means that we have to continue the course we have been doing. Since the beginning of the Legislature, we have 11 500 more professionals in the National Health Service than we had in 2015, among doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and other professionals. Thanks to this strengthening, we were able to increase consultations in primary care by 589 000 and by 184 000 consultations in hospitals. We were able to increase the number of surgeries by 18 000 and respond to more than 248 000 episodes of emergency. What we have to do is continue this effort to reinvest, strengthen staff and improve the conditions for the provision of services. currently, the competition is open for the hiring of more 1000 new doctors for the National Health Service. That is the answer we have to give, but I will have the greatest interest, if I can then make your list available to you in case by case and, in written response, give you detailed information on each of these situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u92	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u93	Mr. President, Prime Minister, the list is the one on the health portal. These are the latest data available, they are public, but I will have the greatest pleasure in sending them to Mr. Prime Minister, these and others. Do I understand the answer that Mr. Prime Minister understands that this is not a plausible solution? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u94	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u95	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, as you know today within the National Health Service, it is already possible to choose other options. I think the priority we have to have and the effort we have to make is to provide the National Health Service with the ability to respond, to avoid situations like those that you have described. I have only asked myself to indicate those in particular that you have mentioned to see whether there is any specific cause for any of these circumstances or whether the measures we are currently taking allow us to overcome and respond to a concern that is common. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u96	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u97	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I understand that the concern is common. The answers and solutions are certainly not common. on the CDS side, the first concern is with the patients, and therefore, if we do not have the ability to respond in good time right now, we think it is a priority to give these patients the conditions that they would have if they had money to pay for one consultation at another location, ensuring that we use all the installed response so that all Portuguese have access to the same health conditions, regardless of their portfolio and regardless of their geographical location. But I'll have the greatest pleasure in sending the list. Still on health, Prime Minister, I would like to know what will happen to Vila Franca de Xira Hospital and what will happen to Beatriz Angelo Hospital in Loures. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u98	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our concern is obviously with the patients, but our concern with the patients, as rulers, cannot be with the individual patient, must be with the Portuguese as a whole in the event of the disease. Therefore, regardless of the remedies that become necessary in a specific case, what we have to have is a systemic response to all those who, in any hospital or health centre in the country, need a specialist consultation, and who are entitled to this mid-term consultation of specialty that is guaranteed, regardless of who it is: whether someone is already waiting or someone who, within six months, is in need of this consultation. That's why we have to have the system's answer. On the other issue you have raised, it is known. We decided not to renew the PPP for Vila Franca de Xira and what we proposed was the contingential extension of the contract in order to ensure continuity of operation of the hospital during the necessary competitive process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u100	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u101	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I understand what separates us. Indeed, the concern of the CDS is with all patients — all of them! — and with a system that has to respond to all patients, regardless of whether they have money to help other responses or not. That is why we understand that the system should be read in its entirety and looking at all the capacity installed, also in the social sector and in the private sector, and as long as the public sector does not have any solutions, we should not rule out other solutions simply because they are not included in the SNS. That is, in fact, a big difference and means that, for us, the most important thing is not the system, it is the patient himself, and it is the patient that we have to give a timely response.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u103	Mr. Prime Minister, about Beatriz Angelo Hospital in Loures, what is the government's choice? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u104	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our concern is with the patient! Only it is not with each of the patients in particular, it is with the patients in general. We cannot have a solution that solves the problem of that lady or that gentleman, we must have a solution for all ladies and gentlemen, at that hospital or any other hospital, for that specialty or any other specialty, who have the right and need to have that consultation. It is for these all that we have to have an answer and not a case-by-case solution. That is why our concern is not with the abstract system, it is with people, it is not a case-by-case solution, it is a regular solution that ensures all and all equal treatment. As for Loures, we expect the evaluation to be made because, as the Government Programme states, we take decisions on a case-by-case basis and on a concrete basis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u106	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u107	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if we cannot solve the problem of that woman and that man who waits for five years for a urology consultation, then we are not able to solve the problem of all Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Our solution is an effective solution, which puts the patient and places the person at the center of the answer, and does not put the system, which necessarily has to be public in your perspective, at the center of the answer, what we regret. This is also what we see to do in the case of hospitals with private management, which, now, the Socialist Party, allied to the most radical left, has much difficulty in evaluating with objectivity. Mr Prime Minister, I have very little time, but I would like to mention another matter which has already been dealt with here. in transport, the difficulties are very great. I heard the answers about what you are going to do and I regret that, four years later, the government apologizes and does not have the investments actually made. We have taken good note of these answers, we will see when the investments will be realized, but again we think that in many cases the government starts home on the roof, not being able to give an effective response in good time. This also applies to what, this week, was evidenced by the Ombudsman's report, with many shortcomings identified. I have also taken good note of the answers that Mr. Prime Minister has given to subjects as relevant as pension processing and I would like to know whether, in fact, he guarantees that at the end of this semester, all pension situations awaiting processing will be effectively resolved. Also on the citizen card and passport, we hope to see these changes as soon as possible, regretting, once again, that it is necessary to reach such a level of degradation in order to have announcements of answers, that we will be here to understand. I would also like to leave you very telegraphic questions on the last two subjects. We saw an attack on taxpayers' rights, with disproportionate and abusive action by the tax administration, so I wanted to know what instructions were given before and after and how the tax administration will act, guaranteeing the constitutional rights of taxpayers. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, on 13 May, the date of the last half-year debate, replied to me that the situation of the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ) was about to be resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u108	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u109	576 hours have passed, Mr Prime Minister — 24 days, 576 hours. Do we have an answer or do we have no answer? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u110	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u111	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, let's see if we understand each other. We do not devalue the case of each person, but we have to have an answer for all people, for those who are waiting today, and for those who will eventually have to wait. For this reason, a global response is needed within the National Health Service for people today and for people tomorrow, for the cases of the people who gave as an example and for the cases of all the other people who have not yet given as an example but who could have given, or who might have to give, from now on. As such, we cannot exhaust our resources by solving the problems that are pending and refusing to find a system solution, because that is the solution we have to give to ensure that these people and all other people have access to a guaranteed average time for each specialty consultation. We do not have a general prejudice, in fact, who created new forms of hospital management until it was a Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u113	What we adopted and established in the Government Programme was that we would assess and decide on a case-by-case basis. in one of the cases, that of Cascais, before a positive assessment, we decided that there was renewal. in other case, in the face of a negative assessment, we decided not to renew. Even today, in the case of a social institution, we decided to renew the grant of the center of recovery of Alcoitão. This is how we will do, on a case-by-case basis, and also in relation to the Beatriz Angelo Hospital in Loures. As regards taxpayers, the instructions given were very clear in the work of the Secretary of State. Once an action which was manifestly disproportionate to how taxpayers should be treated was detected, the immediate suspension of such intervention was ordered. Finally, we agree on a number: 576 hours have actually passed. The good news is that the agreement with Altice is closed and the agreement with Motorola is generally concluded, with two detailed questions awaiting validation of the parent house so Motorola can accept the commitment. We are therefore at this stage in the legal formalization of the agreements that have already been reached, so that the State acquires the full capital of SIRESP, SA. So, in fact, it was more hours than what I expected, but, as you know, from professional experience and political experience, not always the number of hours we judge enough is revealed as such. in this case, it took longer, but we will come to what is essential and, above all, we saved what was fundamental to safeguard: is that there was no interruption of the signal, nor of the signal originally hired,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u114	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u115	... nor the redundancy, which has been assured and worked fully, as it has already worked during the summer of 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u116	To put questions on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u117	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have valued a lot and contributed to the progress achieved in various fields, but, in terms of wages, the positive measures taken over the past three years are not enough to recover the value of the real wages lost in previous years. We're talking about the lives of millions of Portuguese. For this reason, a policy promoting a general increase in wages and a national minimum wage allowing the realization of €850 per month, as workers rightly claim, is indispensable and unacceptable, such as labour legislation that values work and workers. I would say more: the increase in wages is an emergency. It is an emergency to guarantee the dignity of those who work, to give another dynamic to the economy and to boost a higher level of growth, which we need, for the contribution that it can make to fix new generations in the country and to combat the demographic deficit, and an emergency to give greater consistency to a policy of social security sustainability, to build reforms worthy of the future of each worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u119	Mr Prime Minister, will the Government act to promote the general increase in wages for all workers, including the national minimum wage? Or will you insist on the serious standards of labour law, low wages, precariousness and fragility of workers' rights? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u120	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u121	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the basis of economic policy that allowed the change three and a half years ago, we understood that the replacement of income was essential to restore confidence to Portuguese society, which enabled entrepreneurs to invest and create more quality jobs. over these years, we not only rejected the salaries that had been cut into public service as we allowed an increase in the national minimum wage by 20 %. Average earnings, i.e. wages, rose more than 3, 5 % — in 2016 rose 1, 6 %, rose 3, 7 % in 2017, rose 3 % last year — and has been progressive. Fortunately, thanks to the revitalization of collective bargaining, we have found that collective contracts cover more and more workers and always significantly above the national minimum wage. The increase in earnings is absolutely essential because, despite this effort, only about 60 % of the pre-crisis income has been recovered. There's a lot of way forward and there's a lot of way to walk. In fact, I have pointed out several times that businesses must gain an increased awareness that it is essential to have a new wage policy, because if they want to be competitive to export, they must be competitive to set the best frameworks, to invest in vocational training and, therefore, to combat precariousness and to improve wages. Moreover, wage disparity is something that undermines trust and solidarity among all in our society, so it must be reviewed. at the beginning of this legislation, we defined a good principle, which was to schedule for its course what should be the evolution of the national minimum wage. This was important for families, who had confidence in the income they could have, and it was important for companies, who were able to plan their effort with the wage mass. This is how we should also do for the next Parliament: a forecast along it, so that employment policy, both at the level of recruitment and at the level of wage developments, is predictable for all. This is a factor of trust and corresponds to what we need to do, which is to continue to recover lost income and increase the incomes of all Portuguese. This is an objective that we must have in common and that we must be able to carry on and implement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u122	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u123	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I just hope that you will not keep what is emerging and urgent for October, particularly in terms of the need to value work and its wages, and also that the issue of a change to labour legislation is not serious for those who work. Therefore, do not find in the next legislature or in October a reference to what needs to be answered already, in these four months that are still missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u125	Another issue that has already been debated here, but in which I insist, if I may, Prime Minister, be that of health. over time, we have been confronted with the role of difficulties patients face when they go to hospitals in PPP. I stress what has already been said: Braga's patients are pushed to the Port when the treatment costs a lot of money and is not in the contract; Cascais' patients go to the emergencies and, instead of being treated for the problems they have, are used inhumanely to golden statistics and charge more money to the State; and Vila Franca de Xira's patients are admitted to meals and bathrooms. This shows well that the discussion of PPPs in health is not merely theoretical or ideological, it is a real discussion about the right to health and the conditions of health care provided to patients.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u127	We hope that this problem will also be considered and resolved, so that we can have a Health-Based Law that serves the patients and not the disease business.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u129	however, the question I want to leave to you is another: in particular, what are the immediate measures that the Government is taking to maintain the high levels of quality and safety of health care provided by the SNS? Lack of personnel, lack of equipment, in many cases there is no response capacity, waiting lists are far above what would be admissible and the state pays 473 million euros for analyses done outside the SNS when they could and should be done in the SNS. I therefore leave you with a simple and simple question: what measures is the Government taking in particular to solve this great problem of Portuguese health? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u130	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u131	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, concerning the two specific cases he referred to, the Ministry of Health instituted an investigation to verify whether there are indeed such practices and to take appropriate measures, if it is confirmed their existence, because obviously they violate the contract and therefore significantly alter the evaluation that was made with regard to the Cascais hospital. As for the set of measures we have been taking, throughout the legislature, you know them well. In the State Budget this year, we managed to restore the total value accumulated in cuts in the funding of the National Health Service in the previous four years. It is EUR 1300 million in investment in the National Health Service, which translates into concrete results. From now on, in terms of staff, we now have 11 500 professionals in the National Health Service and more competitions are open at this time. Sometimes, as happened last week with the family doctors contest, there are not enough candidates for the vacancies placed in the contest, which obviously has an impact on the time of solving the problems. In fact, we can open the gap, but we cannot force anyone to compete and therefore we need to continue this course. We have also been strengthening the number of equipment to reduce outsourcing and be able to do more in the National Health Service, saving money and investing more in the quality of the National Health Service. It is this trajectory that we have to pursue, to recover the National Health Service and improve the quality of service delivery in the National Health Service. It is not giving birth to the private sector or other sectors what can be done in the National Health Service that we solve the problem, it is making the investments that are necessary, without prejudice to the complementary, supplementary and temporary function that either the social sector or the private sector can and should have in the provision of health care to Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u132	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u133	Mr President, Prime Minister, try to give an incentive to solve problems related to the rights of health professionals, with regard to their careers, and you will see that the participation in these contests will certainly change. But lastly, the reduction in the price of the transit of transport is confirmed as one of the most social measures in this legislature: they earn families, which reduce the costs of their travels, win cities, with the reduction of traffic and parking problems, and gain the environment, with the reduction of pollution. It was worth fighting for more than 20 years for this goal, but we have no illusions, Prime Minister, we know who never wanted this measure and didn't want to see it approved is doing everything so that you can walk back.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u135	The CFP continues to fight for progress not only in the application of the pass measure throughout the country, but also in the immediate resolution of the problems that have already come back and which have now worsened. The lack of trains and boats is not right now. The lack of workers also comes from behind. The problem is that with more than 170 000 passengers only in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, all these problems have worsened. Transport workers, Prime Minister — since he referred to the master's strike in Soflusa — are not responsible for these problems and it is not acceptable for people to be transported upstream, as he suggested, days ago, Mr Secretary of State. The Budget has investment funds to answer these problems. It is only a matter for the government to make the choice to resolve so that the reduction in the price of the pass will increase the increase and improvement of the quality of the supply. So, what option will the government make? To conclude, if you will allow me, Prime Minister, just a note on housing. By recording the advances with the Housing Base Law, contrary to the logic of the PSD / CDS clearance law, of Assumption Cristas, immediate responses to real problems in housing are required. The answer is not the fixing of affordable incomes, with values greater than 1000 €, but rather an effective realization of the right to housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u136	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u137	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, let us be clear: for several months he asked me when we opened a contest to acquire new compositions for the Transtejo. The competition is open, 10 new ships are being hired, which will take at least two years to arrive. I would say to myself: "if we had done the competition in the previous legislation, they were already here! » It is true, but we were not here in the previous legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u138	In 2016!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u139	There was a time when the honourable Member asked me about the many ships that were down for lack of repair. at this time, in the Transtejo, we have two reserve ships, in addition to those that are necessary to ensure daily service, and in the Soflusa we have a reserve ship to ensure basic needs. in the metropolitan area, on which I was often questioned, we had more than 30 fixed wagons, today we have no fixed carriage; we had a security system that required to decrease the commercial speed, today the security system is working, having resumed the commercial speed of 60 km/h and only increased the transport capacity in the metropolitan of Lisbon by 5 %. Therefore, what we have to do is continue with the investments needed in human resources and equipment, in order to improve the quality of the service, it is not to throw out what was a large measure of environmental and social scope, such as the fixing of the single pass, which was an extraordinary achievement of this legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u140	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u141	What we have to do is continue with this ability to maintain regularity. As for what happened last week, with regard to the transport of Barreiro, it did not have to do with any lack of equipment, it did not have to do with lack of personnel, it had to do with the strike that existed, which was what caused the disturbances that occurred. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u142	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next intervention, I would like to inform the House that it is present in the Chamber, in the Tribunal B, the President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, Senator Gabriela Cuevas, Member of the Congress of Mexico, for whom I would like a special greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Let's go on, then. I have the floor to ask questions by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u143	Mr President, Prime Minister, the fight against climate change is urgent and it is essential that it be taken as a political priority. However, the Greens want to say that this fight is not only done in beautiful speeches or with merely symbolic measures, it is done with concrete intervention and concrete measures in sectors that are decisive. The transport sector is precisely one of the most decisive sectors, given that it accounts for around 25 % of greenhouse gas emissions. And the key, within the transport sector, Mr. Prime Minister, is a good bet on a good public transport network. But it is also crucial that people use public transport, so they have to give them an answer. The Greens therefore consider it important to reduce the price of the social pass, in which we have worked, moreover, throughout this legislation, of the State budget in the State budget, with several measures, until culminating in the single pass, which was in fact a very important measure for the lives of many people, with very important social and environmental repercussions. But of course there is the other side, which is the offer given to the people. And there, Prime Minister, the government has gone after the damage, letting things reach the limit for action. Mr. Prime Minister said that the competition is already open for the acquisition of 10 new ships to serve Transtejo and Soflusa, but it was only opened at the beginning of this year, Prime Minister, when this problem was already known for a long time. The same is said about trains. So we have actually been late in opening tenders so that these answers can be given as quickly as possible. But there is more: Mr Prime Minister referred to a very important issue, which is the maintenance of rolling stock. However, what the Government must be aware of, indeed, is that workers who are hiring for EMEF are clearly insufficient to create the conditions of essential operationality for the proper functioning of rolling stock in fact. So, Prime Minister, what are you doing in this situation? Will you continue to postpone more? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u144	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u145	Mr. President, Mrs. Elisa Apollonia,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u146	Heloisa!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u147	Heloisa! What I said...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u148	Elisa said!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u149	Excuse me, Mrs. Member, I must have eaten it! [[General laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u150	Good luck!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u151	But I'll return it already! Mrs Heloísa Apollonia is right and that is why we have adopted today no isolated or symbolic measures, but a structured, organized, programmed roadmap for transition to carbon neutrality by 2050, and the essential of the reduction effort concerns measures to be taken over the next decade, between 2020 and 2030, because this is where we win or lose this battle. With regard to public transport, our priority was precisely to restore maintenance capacity. from there the investments that were made and that I have already given you the example of the Metropolitan and Transtejo and Soflusa, where ships that were immobilized today sail and compositions that were stopped today are circulating. As for EMEF, we have already hired 123 workers, between 2016 and 2017, more than 102 workers are being hired, in addition to 40 workers who have been integrated under PREVPAP ( Extraordinary Regularization Programme of the Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ). And this strengthening of the capacity of EMEF to ensure maintenance is absolutely essential, because it takes years to deliver the compositions that we are buying again today, but with these workers we have the opportunity to recover the dozens of compositions that have been immobilized for many and many years, waiting for maintenance. What we had to do at the same time was take short-term measures, medium-term measures and long-term measures. The honourable Member says that we are running behind the damage and it is true, because we have been going from the beginning of the legislature to rebuild a de-investment of decades in the railway and a total deconstruction of production and service capacity in public transport, promoted throughout the previous legislation. It is this damage that we are actually trying to recover. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u152	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u153	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is true, it has been a loss, a huge disinvestment over decades and decades. But it is also true that, in this legislature, the contests opened late and Mr Prime Minister knows that between the exits of the workers of EMEF and the entries, the numbers he mentioned do not guarantee the maintenance capacity of the necessary material. Mr Prime Minister knows this, the Minister of Infrastructure himself has already admitted it. The question is why they do not hire more workers. What prevents you? Well, even to finish, I'm going to tell you why the Greens consider it important to talk about public-private partnerships ( PPP ) in the area of health. It is important to talk about PPPs in the area of health, because the National Health Service should serve for users rather than for the interests of private people. That's what it's for, and that's why we necessarily have to talk about PPPs. So let's talk about a specific PPP, because the Greens have not been clarified about what Mr. Prime Minister said. At the beginning of this debate, Mr Prime Minister said that the government was not going to make new PPPs. It's as clear as water! Only with regard to the Vila Franca de Xira Hospital will not renew the contract, because it makes a negative assessment, which is also clear, it is only not clear what to follow. Are you going to go into the public sphere or not? Or, after all, will the government even make a new PPP, harming users and the country? Oh, my God! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u154	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u155	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, I mentioned not only the 123 workers who have already been hired for EMEF, but also the 102 who are being hired for EMEF, and if they are being hired is because they are necessary and in this effort we will continue. The central issue under discussion in the Basic Law is very simple: either we want to maintain the current Basic Law, which was approved by Cavaco Silva in 1990, and which says that it is necessary to promote the private sector, to be competitive with the National Health Service, or we approve a new Basic Law, which says what is fundamental to say, i.e., that the State fulfils its constitutional obligation through a National Public Health Service, universally and tends to be free, without prejudice to, temporarily, with complementary and suppletive nature, that there may be forms of private procurement. It is, moreover, curiously, the formulation that already existed in the law of the National Health Service that António Arnaut presented in 1979, the law that the right has revoked...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u156	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u157	... and that it is now necessary to re-establish in order to define here a clear frontier. Mrs Deputy, on the PPPs, I say only the following: today we have appointed the new board of directors of the public enterprise, in which we internalized the PPP of Braga,... [[Green Protests.]] ...that she was still raised last week. So what we do is what we should do in each of the specific cases. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u158	To put your questions, you have the floor of Mr André Silva of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u159	Mr President, Prime Minister, after the 2017 fires, we approved in Parliament a number of amendments to the law, known as the forest reform package. One of the objectives of these changes is to adapt the forest to the risk of fire, in particular by blocking the expansion of the eucalyptus. The Independent Technical Observatory was also created, consisting of specialists, whose mission focuses mainly on monitoring the implementation of public policies and is responsible for making recommendations that it considers relevant. Now, the Observatory warned, in the review phase of the 2019 Regional Forest Management Plans ( PROF ) that these little or nothing altered the composition of the forest, compared with those of 2006, contrary to what is intended in the National Forest Strategy ( ENF ), keeping the areas of eucalyptus, and worse, privileged him in most of the territory. And what was the result of the Independent Technical Observatory alert? None! We have not been heard and continue to waste opportunities to reform the forest, in contrast, the spirit that united us in the summer two years ago. in an analysis to all 2019 PROF, it is found that eucalyptus is one of the species to be privileged in 95 % of the territory, as can be seen from this map, drawn up by Quercus. [[At the moment, the Speaker displayed the map of Quercus entitled 'Area where the eucalyptus is species to be privileged'.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you about how the country makes sense to set up an Independent Technical Observatory for Fires and then ignore its recommendations and maintain forest planning as it was. Do you even consider that these PROFs, which continue to favour eucalyptus, meet the needs of adaptation of the territory and forest to climate change and the risk of fire? Mr President, if I may and with your tolerance, I would also like to ask Mr. Prime Minister, who has to do with the following: The European Commission has opened a case for Portugal because it has not yet fully implemented Directive 2011 / 92 / EU on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, which should have happened until December 2013. Data from APAV (Portuguese Victim Support Association ) show that an average of 22 children per month are victims of sexual violence, which demonstrates the severity of the situation. For when, Prime Minister, is the full transposition of the Directive?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u160	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u161	Mr President, honourable Member, I begin by answering the second question you have raised: it is from the Government's knowledge that there is a parliamentary group which very briefly intends to present a draft diploma of transposition of this Directive and therefore we believe that it would be inappropriate to compete with the parliamentary group and also to present an initiative on the same subject. On the question of the PROF, they have been drawn up over the past few years in a consortium led by three universities — the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, the Higher Institute of Agronomy and the University of Evora — and, as planned, since 2016, when we adopted the programme of forest reform, they have been adopted, in respect of the legislation which, however, we have adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic, first to repeal the law on the liberalisation of the Eucalyptus, which Mrs. Mrs. Assunção Cristas had approved, as Minister of Agriculture, and secondly to limit the possibility of growth of the areas of eucalyptus. This measure was fundamental to curb this growth and the PROFs now have to be transposed, by the end of 2020, to the municipal directors' plans in order to be binding and to define, in the territory of each municipality, the ideal forest mosaic. There is one thing about which I do not have the slightest doubt: the structural resolution of our fire risk is essentially the change in the landscape and a new forest mosaic. Until that happens, and with increasing climate change pressure, we will have an increased fire risk year after year. There may be years when, extraordinaryly, things are going well, as in 2018, but what we need to be aware of is that, as long as we do not have the law of registration - which remains pending in this Assembly of the Republic -, while we do not have the forest restructuring, until we have an economically viable management of the forest, until we have the restructuring of the forest mosaic, we will always have an added risk of fire. We have to find a response to this and the PROFs are a good measure to go in that direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-06-06.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: general appraisal of the Bill No 190 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Creates and regulates the functioning of the National Financial Supervision System ; Overall assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 194 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the Anti-Doping Law in Sport; general discussion of the Bill No 195 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the status of the former fighter; general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 197 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Ensures the implementation in the internal legal order of Regulation ( EU ) 2017 / 2402, which establishes a general regime for the ownership and establishes a specific regime for the ownership of simple, transparent and standardized ; and generally the assessment of the Proposal for Law No 198 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to establish the requirements for access to the profession of the professional activity of seafarers, to define the criteria for equivalence with other professionals in the sea sector and to define the rules for the nationality of crew members on board ships or vessels subject to the regime of the professional activity of seafarers. They are still scheduled, but without time for discussion, Law Proposal No 191 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between the years 1981 and 1985 and the Draft Resolution No 2185 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Consecrates on June 17 as National Day in Memory of the Victims of Forest Fires. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 58 minutes.]]
