ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we will begin our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. As you know, today there are elections to elect a member to the Constitutional Court and three members to the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System. I inform you that the polls will be open until half an hour after the end of the plenary session, to give everyone time to vote. from our current agenda, there is a PS marking on the theme « social passes ». Before that, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro will do the favor of reading the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I announce to the House that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, the motions for resolutions 86 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in the affairs of local authorities, open for signature in Utreque on 16 November 2009, 87 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Angola, signed in Luanda, on 18 September 2018, 88 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 5 October 2016, and 89 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru on the reduction of demand and the prevention and fight against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances signed in Lisbon on 30 January 2012, which fall to 2. the Commission. The draft Resolution Nos 2070/ XIII/4 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of follow-up measures for children and young people with type 1 diabetes mellitus in school context, which falls to 9. the Commission, 2071 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to the Government to deal with the crisis in the textile sector, which falls to 10. the Commission, and 2072 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare an epidemiological study to assess the effects of industrial activity on the health of Paio Pires village population and the adoption of measures to improve national air quality, which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We shall initiate a PS marking on the theme « social passes » under Article 64 ( 3 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are on the eve of the implementation of one of the most expected measures of this legislature, a global solution involving the country around social and environmental objectives that, I am sure, no Member here present negligence. The fight against climate change, the stimulus to the use of public transport and, as a result, the support of the poorest people who move every day not only in the suburbs of the Portuguese cities, but also throughout the rest of the country, either on the coast, whether inside, in the north or in the south, is a giant step to unlock years and years of political talk, almost always empty of realization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not an insignificant'measuring'. It is the way in which the Socialist Party's thinking is structured on the path to protecting the environment, facilitating the lives of citizens and keeping the commitments underlined in the Government's Programme that, if the country gets better, then the Portuguese also have to get better. In fact, Mr President, we have begun the Legislature to return income and we will end the Legislature with this exceptional measure, to deliver new incomes to the Portuguese. But once again, not everyone is on the side of the well-being of the citizens who live in Portugal. A good idea, a structural solution, does not generate the political consensus which, apparently, should be obvious. Whoever hears you, who hears those who have generated a almost miraculous strategy of complete boot-down, wonders why they want to block this solution. What's moving them? What do you have against cheaper, much cheaper social passes across the continent? We understand that the path chosen by the PSD is justified in electoral proximity. There is an electoral frenzy that removes the thought that should be of a sense of responsibility of the greater party of the opposition. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not all right. After four years, your responsibility, your increasingly expensive social passes, the loss of millions and millions of passengers in public transport, and zero structural measures for the sector, we did not expect this to be undone. This purely electoralist sense of the PSD is explained only because he wanted to be the author of this excellent measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] Moreover, as it is not in the photograph of this solution, strangles everywhere and, let me tell you, have followed the worst path: the path of the burned earth. So what does the PSD suggest? An account-current so that the taxes of each Portuguese serve only themselves, in their most simple desires, and no one else, transforming the country into a chaotic disorientation of wills and into an unbearable struggle of Portuguese against Portuguese? It seems, in fact, a caricature that I have just mentioned, but that is the effective sense of roughness and bouncing right argument about a large measure that will mark the next few years. Let me be more specific: what does the Portuguese taxpayer want Rui Rio? To install a model in which your taxes do not help, for example, the protection of the Portuguese forest only because there is a part of this forest on the coast? Or that your efforts as a contributor are not used to stimulate birth, because not everyone is in a position to have children, nor is there territorial privilege for this important challenge? [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: What does taxpayer Fernando Negrão want? That the taxes you pay can't help pay Mr. Francisco's pension, which lives in Oeiras, or Mr. Manuel's, who lives in Faro?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u5	What a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, on the right and its arguments, we are talking about. They could have followed a positive course of commitment to the Portuguese people to ensure that they will include strengthening this measure in their government programme, for example. You could say that everything will try to do more and better for public transport. Basically, they could provide assurances that if they won elections, they did not intend to damage the solutions that so much work they had to build. They could ensure, for example, that they would not withdraw from Portuguese public transport users these enormous advantages and benefits and that they would continue the path of climate protection. But the country lost the opportunity to converge on the good ideas and won a demagogic debate with a purely electoralist sense in the hands of the PSD. Mr President, we are here today to present the plan to support tariff reduction, an extraordinary investment by the State, over EUR 100 million, which will cover the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and all 23 inter-municipal communities in which the Portuguese continent is divided. To all the virtues that this measure closes, whether at the transport level, is social, we must join the happy fact that it is largely financed by those who are most polluted. It is a relevant principle to realize the only design that will contribute to ensuring the existence of the human species: drastic reductions in CO2, whose origin, we all know, is mainly in mobility systems. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] It is not a minor objective and, in spite of everything, we are all summoned to this contribution. That is what they expect of us, especially the younger generations. Mr President, we cannot fail, because if we fail, we will not have a second chance. I'm done talking about the savings this new system has. There is a very large variety of interventions in this area. I couldn't stop being otherwise. The mobility systems to which this tariff reduction mechanism is intended are different from territory to territory and therefore the solutions found by the country outside have been constructed by each entity which, in its region, better understands and assesses what is most appropriate for its population, always bearing in mind the best contribution to a greener land. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u7	Mr Carlos Pereira, you have signed up to request clarifications, seven Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u8	Let's hope so!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u9	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u10	The first request for clarification is from Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, when you listen to your speech and, above all, when you buy the pass for April, the comment you want to make and that some of us have already done for these days is as follows: this, 22 years ago, seemed even impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u12	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u13	It seemed even impossible when the CFP brought to this Chamber the proposal to extend the pass to all operators, all careers, throughout the region, at more affordable prices for people. At the time we meet, I will save the honourable Member from reading the debates, which are at the top of the House, from the proposals of the CFP, but there is a memory which cannot be mentioned at this time. It is that the persistence of those who propose measures that are fair and those who advocate policies for people compensates when we see the adoption of just measures, important measures, which are good for the people and for the country. That is why the CFP is very proud of 22 years of struggle, proposal and intervention to move forward with this measure. [[PCP applause.]] We must not fail to say that, at the moment, there is an unmistakable responsibility to be mentioned, and that is what I am asking the honourable Member and the Socialist Party about. At the government level, there are measures that are being taken very slowly, some of them being locked up and others that are not moving forward. The strengthening of transport company staff, the strengthening of material resources, the concrete problem in linking transport between regions, not only within a region, are concrete elements that now require an explanation for the reasons that led the PS to vote against the proposals which the CFP has recently put forward in relation to these matters. Once and for all, I ask what measures are available to move forward. It is appropriate to say: walk back, not; even advance is that it is necessary! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u14	For clarifications, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party on bringing this important issue to debate today and to make it very clear that the PSD agrees with this measure. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u16	It is positive, it is necessary, it helps a lot in people's mobility and, above all, in meeting environmental goals, which are very important in what matters for the future of our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u17	It is difficult for me to understand from now on some smiles and some questions from your bench, because that is what we said the first time this measure was presented in this House in the debate of the State budget. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u18	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u19	That's what we said. We said that it was important, that it was necessary and that it would, in fact, be very positive that it would be implemented. We have made proposals to further improve this measure, i.e. we have proposed that it should, in fact, have scope throughout the territory and that it should cover all Portuguese, proposals which, at the time, were rejected by the left-wing majority, which did not want this primacy to be enshrined in this measure throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u21	Mr Deputies, we have identified those who would be a bit of an embarrassment to this measure. It is, in fact, fair to all those Portuguese who enjoy it, but it is unfair to the Portuguese who are excluded from it. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, in a world where it makes less sense to talk about borders, the way in which the government has drawn this measure creates borders and mobility barriers in the country. There are no mobility boundaries between ICDs (intermunicipal communities) or between metropolitan areas. The mobility of people, either for work or for study, is not gripped by the fact that they are in CIM A or B or in a municipality that is on the other side of the border of a metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u23	That is why this measure has these constraints, because, being a positive measure and with which we agree, its application throughout the territory creates these differences, which, in our understanding, must be corrected. As such, we made proposals and even voted in favour of proposals from other parties, including the Left Block, which went in the same direction. We voted in favour of this so that this measure could in fact be effective everywhere. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u24	... and, contrary to what you said, we did not do it for electoral objectives. These are your goals,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u25	... by having these measures properly and adequately affected only in large areas where more people live, leaving behind all the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u27	In short, Mr President, we agree with this measure, but we regret that it does not aim to serve everyone in the same way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u29	I therefore ask the honourable Member whether or not the Socialist Party is available to initiate, as soon as possible, a political process so that the same answer is given throughout the country and to all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u31	This is what it is about: to extend a justice that is clearly and objectively in certain regions, so that that justice itself is evident and practiced throughout the national territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u32	To request clarification on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, I would like to congratulate you, yourself and the PS, on the important issue that brought the debate with which the CDS has always agreed. In fact, I want to contribute to consensus, without angering any of the parties that make up management,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u34	“ Zanggar ”? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u35	...and give all congratulations. Then decide who you've had the idea for a while! Open... The principles are good, we have been pursuing them for a long time, as is the case with reducing the use of private car, and we have proposed measures... [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] I will prove by fact that what I am saying is part of CDS proposals. I do not call into question the generic lines and the assumption of the measure, with which I agree, there are still matters that need to be discussed. I therefore believe that this debate will win if we can improve the proposal or talk about some of the constraints it presents. One of them has to do with the quality and quantity of the offer. There is a clear objective of encouraging the use of public transport, but it is necessary to look at reality. And the reality is that we actually live at times when public transport services are degraded, both in terms of quality and quantity, never seen, which is the responsibility of management. in this matter, the CDS is at ease, both in the budget and during the debate—and perhaps the CFP could look more closely—,... [[PCP protests.]] ... because we voted in favour not only of the Draft Resolution No 938 / XIII / 2. the PCP, which concerned the extension of the Port metro to Campo Alegre, Matosinhos and Vila Nova de Gaia, but also of the proposals, within the Budget, which concerned the extension of the meters of Lisbon and Porto and the fleet of the Transtejo. We've always voted in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u36	No, no! Last year they voted against it! This year they fixed everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u37	... and we have even made a proposal in the budget to extend the metro to the eastern area. We regret that Left Block, PCP and PS voted against the CDS proposal. So, we're clearly winning, it's just going to see the votes...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u38	Last year, they didn't vote like this! There were no elections! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u39	...and maybe they don't laugh so much anymore and can be a little more coherent and careful.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u40	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u41	What I meant, Mr, is that, in fact, in the area where this measure is most concerned, we have serious problems with the supply. The Transtejo suppressed about 1000 vessels, the caterpillars need monitoring and renewal and, thanks to the captivating for such objectives that, sometimes, the PS is so proud, the truth is that the offer is low and of little quality and there is no more offer for the citizens. In the Soflusa, the same thing happens. The honourable Member heard, as I heard, the President of the Soflusa said: "Well, we have no public service contract since 2014. » In addition, the vessels of the Soflusa are small, the facilities and the cais have no conditions. Therefore, what matters is whether the Socialist Party and management are also dealing with the improvement of supply, so that this measure is effective and effectively implemented,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u42	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u43	...to reach people, users and guarantee such mobility that we all continue. I can also refer to the CP, which has abolished about 12 000 trains—I do not have time to explain the degradation of the CP service! ... — and the lack of staff, not only in the EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company) but also in the Soflusa and Transtejo, a situation for which the PCP alerts, as we alert, makes this measure sin because it is, eventually, only one measure. I would like you to say what is being done, in particular, to improve all this. In addition, there are special cases for which it is necessary to look. For example, the CP has ended by increasing, and not reducing, the price, and therefore there is serious doubt as to how the CP service — useful in urban areas, which is where there is the most offer — will come about with this measure. Finally, I can also talk about territorial inequality, because 85% of the environmental fund budget, paid by all Portuguese that use car to work and study, is spent in the large metropolitan areas. Only a little more than €16 000 is available for each CIM, if we make a division for 21, which is not enough to buy a bus. I would therefore like to know what concrete measures the Socialist Party has taken and how to eliminate this fierce territorial inequality from making the whole country pay for a measure that is fair and balanced, but that serves only part of the country. This is unfair and is not deserved by all those who contribute to the main objectives of this measure. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u44	Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u45	Mr President, I would like to congratulate all of you. Members and all Members, in particular the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, for bringing this issue to debate. I must say that it is not a great surprise, given that, within three days, the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction will enter into force and it was already imagined that this could happen, but, in any case, it is always a good opportunity for us to reflect on this very relevant subject. I cannot fail to mention that Mr Pereira has classified this 'excellent' measure for the people and for the mobility policy in our country. That is indisputable, Mr Deputies, but two years ago it wasn't. Two years ago, the Left Block scheduled for January 18, 2017 an urgent debate on price policy for social passes, because in 2017 the Government had decided to increase the price of public transport by 1, 5 % on average. The Minister of the Environment and the Secretary of State had the opportunity to be present in this urgent debate, but unfortunately today they are not here, so I can remind the Secretary of State José Mendes of his words about the justification for increasing the price of social passes. at that time, to the references made by Members to transport prices in 2017, the Secretary of State said that the increase in transport tariff had to « balance two situations : firstly, the concern to maintain transport accessible to families and secondly, the concern about the sustainability of transport undertakings(...) ». Two years later, the honourable Member is no longer concerned about the sustainability of transport undertakings or the burden the transport price represented for families. What has changed, Mr. Carlos Pereira? What's changed, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group to classify this 'excellent' measure? We agree with it, but they explain to us what happened to, from one moment to the other, within the same legislature, the Socialist Party radically change this policy. I recall, Mr Carlos Pereira, that in several budgets the Left Block has repeatedly put forward proposals to reduce the price of social passes, to reduce the price of transport, because in our assessment — which was correct — the previous government, PSD / CDS, had practiced a tariff policy in transport exactly the opposite. I cannot help but smile, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, when he now says that he has even followed the proposals of the Left Block, because, Mr, that position is recent.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u46	But it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u47	It is also in 2017 that you voted against proposals from the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u48	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u49	... which aimed exactly at reducing the price of transport, in particular of social passes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u50	We'll see the page!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u51	Finally, Mr Carlos Pereira, I would like to say that there are many black holes in this tariff reduction policy. One of the main black holes relates to the fact that there are hanging trips involving other private operators or, for example, the public rail transport operator, the CP, in which the price reduction of the passes does not approach, by far or by close, the values that will be practised in the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. I can point out, Mr Member, that the distance between Mafra and Setúbal is about 85 km and between Lisbon and the Shipment is 90 km, and that the signing pass of the CP only to Vila Franca de Xira will cost 166 € and the passage of any resident of Setúbal or Mafra who wants to go from one place to the other will cost 40 €. This inequality cannot but be explained by Mr Carlos Pereira, so I would like you to say a few words about it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u52	For clarifications, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, the CFP is proud of the decisive contribution it has made to the realization of the unique pass in the metropolitan area of Porto. For several years, we proposed measures in this regard, without any other parties in this House accompanying us. This was the case in 1997, this was the case in 2003, and this was still the case in this Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u54	Long live a PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u55	... when the PS, PSD and CDS, Mr Hélder Amaral, voted against and BE abstained in the vote on the PCP proposal for the consecration of Andante as an intermodal social pass of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, preventing this measure from being implemented two years ago. We did not give up and the struggle, persistence and reason of the CFP have ultimately contributed decisively so that, from 1 April, many families in the region, particularly workers' families, save tens of euros per month. What has been achieved only demonstrates the fairness of the CFP proposal, a proposal we have defended for many years. This is indeed a measure of enormous social scope, which contributes to improving the living conditions of families and will also benefit students, reformed and children. However, even though this is a very important step forward, we do not forget that there are still aspects to be assured. We know that we need to ensure the coverage of some municipalities — a risk for which we warned five months ago — and it is therefore important to take all measures to ensure that the single pass is available throughout the Metropolitan Area of Porto. Mr President, the question we want to put to you will be exactly this way. Because there are government responsibilities in this area, although the measures should also be taken in conjunction with the Metropolitan Council of Porto, it was important to know what measures are being taken to ensure that the single pass is being extended to the entire Metropolitan Area of Porto. It was also important to know what is being done, in conjunction with the Port Metropolitan Council, to ensure that the unique pass for families and the free pass for children up to 12 years old come into force quickly, without the users having to wait more than four or five months for the measures to be implemented. It is also necessary to ensure that this response is extended and that the supply of public transport in the region will respond to the dynamics that is being created, as well as to the increase in demand that will exist. The CFP will be here to make this fight and the people can count on us to contribute and guarantee these advances. And the PS, what answer does it have to give to the populations of the Port Metropolitan Area? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u56	Mr Fernando Barbosa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, I do not want to get into the discussion of who is the « father» of the child, the child being the public transport. What's important to discuss is who's going to feed that child...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u58	Well said! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u59	...and we know that we cannot endorse the PSD idea that there must be equality throughout the national territory. There should be a level playing field throughout the national territory. We cannot, for example, require a 10-minute bus between Paredes and Penafiel in the Port Metropolitan Area, being Penafiel of the CIM of the Thames and Walls of the Port Metropolitan Area, to serve a population that is smaller, in the same way that from Matosinhos to the Port we ask for the 10-minute metro within 10 minutes. Don't! There must be differentiation, but also equity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u60	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u61	Addressing Mr. Carlos Pereira directly, I will say the following: the Metropolitan Area of Porto has recently assisted, in the social communication, much dispersed and contradictory information. On the one hand, we heard the President of the Port Chamber say that the PART(Programme of Support for Reduction of the Public Transport Tariff) would not be applied this year, it would only be next year; then we heard the President of the Port Metropolitan Council and President of the Gaia Chamber say that, after all, it would be from day 1 ; and finally, on March 15, the population of the Port Metropolitan Area arrived at the information that the rules were to apply from April 1. I am glad that, at the national level, there is equity. It should also be clarified why not all areas of this measure, including the family pass, do not come into force. When the reasons they point are technical-tax, we like to know what technical-tax reasons to classify a family aggregate because, if it is by the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), in January it may be from the family aggregate, but in March it may not be. So there must be some action. We also like to know what technical and fiscal reasons there will be, for example, for passes for students or children up to 12 years old, because it will certainly not be a technical and fiscal reason that will change your age. The citizenship card would be one of the simple measures to be able to apply this, so that is not the reason. It is also important to make it clear that we welcome the measure, it is good, but it must be responsible, in particular, for the Government and the PS Parliamentary Group, which have great responsibility for this, not only in relation to what has already been done, but also for congratulations on this, but also for warning that the measure should not remain here and continue to be developed, that it should be applied fairly throughout the national territory and that none of the populations should remain outside this framework. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u62	To conclude the round of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, certainly knows the work that The Greens have done in the most various areas in relation to the need to improve the supply of public transport, in order to change the paradigm, in particular in the pendulum movements, of the use of individual transport more mass for collective transport that actually responds to the needs of the populations. This is for various reasons, in particular, because of the responsibility that we have to find measures to mitigate climate change and because of the need for territorial cohesion, that is, to link the various points of the territory, but also to ensure the right that people have to mobility, therefore, not to be isolated and to have answers to this mobility. The Greens presented a number of proposals in the Assembly of the Republic on various aspects, but, taking into account the subject of today's debate, I cannot but highlight a few proposals which the Greens have put forward on the price of the transport licence. We therefore negotiated with the Government, in particular, the end of the condition of the resources of Pass 4 /NP 18 and Pass sub23, in order to significantly reduce the cost of this pass ; the possibility of deducting the total VAT (tax on value added) that families spend on the social pass within IRS ; and also, in the last parliamentary days of the Greens last year, we made it clear that we would negotiate with the Government on the matter of the single pass and, in the last State budget, in fact, it ended up being contemplated. As we are discussing today, it is very fair. It is a long claimed measure, there were conditions for it to have been implemented, but it is now! We consider, in fact — and we want to highlight it — a positive step. In any case, there are some questions to be addressed, or at least to respond to, populations regarding those who may be afraid of the hypothetical discrimination in areas so close to the territory, and he is aware of some fears of neighbouring municipalities in the metropolitan areas that may be significantly discriminated against in relation to the price of the social pass. I would like you to know how you think you can solve this issue and give some answers. There is another issue that can also be put in this debate. It is also true that, if the price of the transport licence is important to apply, to mobilise people for the use of public transport, it is also true that, if collective transport does not give the answer that people need, then the answer to the need and the objective that we seek to achieve will be taken up. Therefore, the investment in public transport supply is decisive. In fact, we should even look at the interventions of the PSD and the CDS, which are now calling for investment in this area. Perhaps it would be good to ask Mr Hélder Amaral, when the PSD/CDS government took possession, he recalls the vigils that the people of the South Margin had made because you threatened to reduce river transport to those populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u64	We threatened and you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u65	Sir, who heard you and who heard you now! Honestly, there is some consistency in these matters! [[CDS-PP protests.]] But I think your current position well, not that of height, as it is obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u66	Now, they even make demonstrations without a troika!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u67	It is also good to remember, Mr Hélder Amaral, the closure of the rail offer that you have made for this country outside!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u68	How many trains have we deleted? Hello! None!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u69	But I like listening now. In fact, you are only right when you are in opposition, because when you arrive at the government, it is only disgrace, only disgrace, Mr! [[PCP applause.]] Well, we fought here for a reduction in the price of the social pass. We consider this measure very positive. Mr Carlos Pereira, if you can give us some answers on these matters that need to be cleared, we thank you. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u70	You have the floor to answer Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thanks to all the honourable Members who have asked me questions. I am sorry to follow this method of responding in package, but there are many representatives from all over the country on the bench of the Parliamentary Group who want to talk about the virtues of this model that we are presenting today. This is actually good news, so I'm going to try to be a telegraph. Mr Bruno Dias, we agree with the essentials of the references you have put forward and we agree with the present circumstances, at the end of 22 years, also the Portuguese Communist Party joins this idea, a good idea for Portugal, to help families and the climate. Thank you very much, Mr. Mr Emídio Guerreio reminds me of the cottage of Ricardo Araújo Pereira — let me tell him — which is 'we agree, but we vote against; we like the measure, but we vote against it; it is good, but we vote against it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We don't understand that very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u72	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u73	In any case, we hope that from here on your sense of responsibility will enable you to add more advantages to this process and, somehow, fulfill what, in the rostrum, I said in the intervention: to ensure to the Portuguese that they do not damage, in the future, what we have built! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u74	Mr Hélder Amaral, he raised, above all, two questions, one of which concerns the quantity of the supply. It's another debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] We are available to do so, but today, Mr President, we would like to talk about this debate, the debate of a programme, a new, extraordinary and unpublished mechanism to reduce public transport tariffs. This is a debate to which you want to flee and, for us, is the debate that we want to focus and focus and to which we will not run. On the justice of the measures, which you have spoken about, I will give you an example which is very important to me. The honourable Member, by chance, is against the public service obligations for the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, which, by chance, are financed by the State budget, but which only benefits Madeira and the Azores? Are you against it?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u75	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u76	I believe that this justifies the inconsistency of your intervention on this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u77	Mrs Liliana Pereira... [[Diana! Diana Pereira!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u78	I'm sorry. The honourable Member has raised the question of the time of this measure. It is true that you have reduced for 20 years what Mr Bruno Dias said. Mr Bruno Dias spoke in 22 years and the honourable Member has already spoken in 2 years. It's not bad! But today, finally, we have the measure implemented. This measure is welcome, as well as the support that the CFP is giving it. As for what is to be done, Madam Member, I would like to say the following: it is necessary to rely on local power, even when he is not from the CFP! And so there are things to be built. Surely the local power is attentive to this matter and we trust it. Mr Fernando Barbosa, from the Left Block, we are grateful for the contribution you have made, in line with what you have referred to, and I also take advantage of replying to Mr Heitor de Sousa, telling him that I have classified the measure as excellent — I repeat that it is excellent — the honourable Member has agreed to me that it is excellent, but has brought to the discussion a matter which we are not discussing. We are not discussing today the tariff increase in public transport; today we are discussing the tremendous, the huge reduction in public transport tariffs, and this makes all the difference. We are discussing its reduction and not its increase, as you mentioned in your speech. Finally, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on the improvement of supply, is an issue to which I have already answered. Since this is a new debate on supply, I sincerely hope that the honourable Member will not wait for this good measure to be stopped just because in some parts of the country we are still not in a good position from the point of view of network availability. We want to get to that, we expect the contribution of all parties and that is what we are working on. We will not put a brake on this measure to have the best solution for network and transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u79	We're on to the interventions. Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD believes that measures such as the reduction of social pass tariffs are therefore necessary, so welcome, in the light of the promotion of mobility and the sponsorship of the fulfilment of the environmental goals to which Portugal has been linked. Strengthening mobility and the era of decarbonisation are of the greatest challenges in the new economy, in an effort to replace individual transport with public transport, in favour of the quality of life of citizens. It is therefore unequivocal to the PSD's position in this regard and undoes any misgivings that would be stopped. In short, we are in favour, we agree, we only regret that it is not for more Portuguese and we regret that the supply of transport does not have the right fleet, in quantity and quality, to provide the necessary answers. During the discussion of the State Budget, the PSD presented proposals for changes in the specialty to ensure that the benefits were not exhausted in areas with great population density, where the greatest opportunities and resources are concentrated, but that this initiative constituted a transforming force of mobility for areas of lower density, peripheral and in which a poor demographic winter is faced, thus preserving the cohesion and attractiveness of these territories.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u82	The PSD does not overlook the benefits that will result from it. We support them, but understand, however, that this measure has to be good for all and not for one part, just for all and not just for some, feasible for all and not for those who proclaim themselves. [[PSD applause.]] However, in order to achieve this result, the good, fair and enforceable measure for all, the Government, on a premeditated option, has acted more and more in the opposite direction: it has reduced public investment by EUR 3000 million compared to 2015, for example more than 9 % of railway 2020, and the forecast of 80 % of the investments planned by the previous Government transit to the proposal of the National Investment Programme 2030, which is perhaps the most unexpected but honest confession of the failure of the legislature. This was the conscious and deliberate choice of the government, not the result of any accident or mere chance. Make it clear: it wouldn't have been ours. It acted in the opposite direction because the review of the tariff should be preceded or, at least, accompanied by investment, not to face caricature episodes such as those of the locomotive that loses the engine, of the boats that are invaded by the users, buses and electrics to land and without time, from the subway that only catches at the third hour in the tip. The bet on the offer, the comfort and the enhancement of the quality remained behind. The absence or tremendous lack of supply are insurmountable obstacles to which many Portuguese who will pay the measure come to benefit from it. And that's settled tomorrow? Don't! The answer for more boats is: it is in competition! For more buses it is: it is in competition! For the replacement of the rolling stock the answer, invariably, is: it is in competition! But it's next month? No, it's for 2021, for 2022, for 2023. But when does the measure come into force? Now! We know, yes, that there is a brutal and well-founded mistrust of citizens in relation to public transport and that complaints have increased by more than 38 % according to the latest data in 2017. These complaints are the cries of frustration and hopelessness of those who face painful situations, to which the Government has given up giving answer and taking care to resolve. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot, should not be a measure to make it cheaper for those who buy the social pass to be waiting for the train that does not come from the bus that does not pass from the boat that does not sail. [[PSD applause.]] This cannot, should not be a measure which does not extend the network, which does not carry the transport where it does not exist, which sharpens inequalities and leads those excluded to say: "What if I don't even have public transport? Do not keep on seeking. ” This should not be a measure for those who are outside to feel badly, doublely penalized, for paying and not having benefit and for paying even more for the monumental setting with the fuel tax and the carbon rate when their isolation situation does not offer you any alternative of mobility, without choice and feeling that it does not count, deliver to itself. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal has a gross error: where there is no offer, in the overwhelming majority of cases there will not be new answers, and this is territorially and socially unjust and needs to be corrected. The program does not impose the creation of new routes, does not weigh inter-regional movements, treats the territories in a pond form as if the pendulum movements were exclusively delimited by artificial political-administrative dictates, almost as if they were erectible borders, e.g. between the West, Santarém and Lisbon, or Braga, Viana do Castelo and Porto, or so many other cases that are reported to us by unbelievers. This should not be — but it is — a measure that the government fears will be right because it has not been properly prepared. The government wants you to be right, but not so much, it just wants you to be right! And, if so, fairness can be even more concerned, because it is not, or should not, a choice that lies in the mere domain of mere return of incomes indirectly, because it does not distinguish poor, rich or remedied, but rather a unique opportunity to transform decisively mobility and to achieve equal opportunities for all, throughout the country. So this choice should be more balanced. There are dozens of municipalities in the country without public transport, often because there is no scale, it is true, and for these there must be a model of proximity so that populations are not abandoned. This would require a redistribution of resources very different from what the Government proposes, as well as compensatory measures for those who do not have access. Tell the algae to use the Vila Real train from Santo António to Lagos when half of the time the train does not appear and the other half takes more than two hours and thirty minutes to make the journey. Ask anyone who wants to go from São João da Pesqueira to Vila Real Hospital. Ask the Alentejans who don't have a train. Ask all those who do not have this but have self-ported roads when the parties, who are part of the political arrangement, have promised them at the same time the abolition of substantial reductions and perennially affirmed the issue of mobility and tolls as the most decisive in these territories. [[PSD applause.]] in this sense, yes, it is an unfair measure for many, although we agree that it is imperative to promote sustainability. But this is also a measure that can invite you to waste: when you propose a family pass and from the third element of the family aggregate the pass is free, we are in an unbridled waste run, because even those who do not need it or make it little use will require the pass and thus the costs of the measure will increase due to the possible need to sacrifice the dealers for the installed capacity they must ensure. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u83	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to allow the speaker to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u84	I imagine that, paying attention to the latest news, delaying the entry into force of the family pass is a very bad news received in the PS hosts and in many government offices. [[PS laughter.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good example that the government does not lie, but it deceives people a lot. No lie, because you've reviewed the tariff, but it deceives people because many people stay out when they tell them they're going to be inside. [[PSD applause.]] It is illustrious, because it does not face the problem of intermodality, because it has announced investments it has never made. The government is not lying, but it deceives people, it deceives. We are in favour of the measure, but it takes a lot of work to eliminate the injustices and to guarantee them a universal character. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u85	Mr Andre Pinotes Batista was signed up to request clarifications. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me highlight that this is the most significant measure of the century taken in relation to public transport. And, in the face of the most remarkable measure, how does the right hand appear? on the side of the PSD, we realize: it says that the measure is excellent, the measure is very good, support the measure, but... And after the « but» comes nothing. It does not come of any reasonable reason, nor does it come from anything that is consistent with those who have been investing for years, with whom it has been failing to keep up with the maintenance, with whom it has been with for years increasing the social passes. And how does the CDS show up? It is even more charged: the CDS criticizes the issue of the environmental background and the financing of practices that are most harmful to the environment, but last Friday, Assumption Cristos was with Zé Maria taking a selfie to say « we do for the climate». And the question that remains is this: we do for the climate or we do not do for the climate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Let me tell you, that they are enveloped, battled, it is something that does not afflict us. We want to move forward, and we move forward. It was said here that the government is wrong, that the government is wrong. Now, would you like to ask Mr Cristóvão Norte to what extent is that a barrier with a family of three people who catch the collective transports of the Barreiro will feel attacked when instead of paying €202, pay €80 per month? It's a saving of 1400 € a year! What illusion is this, sir? And in the Moita, in the Valley of Love, when they moved to the Park of Nations? This same aggregate will have a saving of 280 € monthly, 3360 € per year. What illusion is this, sir? I also give you the example of Setúbal, who I think is full and at least will kill your illusion about this debate: 360 € of monthly savings, equivalent to 4320 € per year. Mr President, we know one thing today: there is a huge illusion, there is a huge lack of control in the way in which the right is presented, in the form with the right, enveloped, trying to embarrass a measure with which, after all, it agrees, but with which it voted against. The Portuguese know we're talking about coherence and public transport! Fortunately, you do not govern public transport, you do not rule the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u87	To reply, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u88	Mr President, Mr André Pinotes Batista, I can only tell you that you have not heard my speech, so it is difficult to feel questioned when I assume that there were strong differences in the national framework, that the measure was good, that the Social Democratic Party should subscribe to it, but that corrections should be made. You preferred to make a number for your district. I understand that, of course, this has to be done, and we respect it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u89	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after so many years, when we finally see this proposal become a reality, we cannot help but say: it is worth a fight! It has been worth continuing to defend just and necessary measures like this. [[PCP applause.]] We will not read here what was said and voted in the parliamentary debates of the CFP initiatives in 1997, in 2001, in 2004, in 2011, in 2016. The Journals of the Assembly of the Republic have this record for those who need it. What is worth recalling now is the sacrifices that people have made every time governments have increased transport prices, cut into services, infernify the lives of populations with a policy of dismantling public service and submit to the business of large economic groups. When, in particular, the previous PSD/CDS government decreed an unprecedented cut in the offer of transport, gross increases for the passes, the end of steps 4 - 18 and sub23 for the generality of children and young people and established exorbitant prices for the reformees, it was necessary to respond with the fight and the proposal, reaffirming that this right should be defended and won. We proposed not only the replacement of discounts for young people and pensioners and the elderly, as we also proposed, over and over again, the plan to extend the pass with lower prices and, in this State budget, the strengthening of funds for the PART ( Public Transportation Tariff Reduction Support Programme), which allowed this programme to be extended throughout the country, but with the vote against the PSD. And we also proposed strengthening of means for public transport, maintaining their fleets — with the vote against the PSD, which gave the PS to bring these measures down. We will continue to fight and propose that we do not stay here, because we need to move forward with the necessary means to ensure that these measures are implemented throughout the country, without exclusion, from the outset in inter-regional links and, in particular, in railways, where the only transport authority is the Government. In particular in the regions of the interior, it is necessary to rebuild the railways and return them to the populations, it is necessary to remove ions from what was the destruction of the National Road and its consequences and to start a path of reconstruction of a national public road operator.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u92	And, throughout the transport system, it is necessary to ensure a strengthening of personnel and material resources for effective response capacity, so that there is more supply of transport, as the people need, and not to be here a few years, but for now! We will continue to propose measures to defend better public transport at affordable prices throughout the country, as well as we will continue to fight against the policies of penalization of populations, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, of productive sectors, in the use of the road network, in the tolls, in the use of public space. And we will not accept manoeuvres used by this debate as a pretext for measures to exploit and worsen these conditions, reserving them for the privilege of some. PS, PSD and CDS continue to choose to maintain a PPP model (public-private partnerships) that is ruinous to the country. The money spent in one year on road PPPs — about EUR 1, EUR 3 billion — would give 10 years of funding for the current tariff reduction in public transport. We cannot ignore that reality! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new proposals we present at the current stage of this process — draft resolutions 1943 / XIII / 4. a and 2063 / XIII / 4. a — are concrete contributions to respond to this requirement to boost tariff reduction for a strategic bet in promoting public transport. We are presenting these new initiatives in the awareness that this is an urgent way forward. It is for this path and for this advance that populations, young people, workers and transport users can continue to count on the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u93	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. However, I would like to remind you that elections are being held in room D. Maria for a member of the Constitutional Court and for three members of the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System. These votes will end half an hour after the end of the plenary. Mr Hugo Costa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The programme to support tariff reduction is a measure of enormous social and environmental scope. We well know that on the side of the right opposition, he parades the usual role of criticism, depicting a socially just measure with the imagination and despair of those who do not know how to criticize. Let's go to the facts and facts. The Santarém district, for which I am elected, with the programme to support tariff reduction, presents significant reductions in its two inter-municipal communities, Medium Tejo and Lezíria do Tejo. We start with the Tejo Medium, which has already publicly announced the data, and in the case of the railway, there are a few thousand people who use the daily connection. in this case, for example, the pass between Tomar and Lisboa, from May 1st, will cost about €164, representing a saving of € 115 compared to the more than 250 currently. Many people make this journey daily and often even couples from the same family. These presented values are indicated by the mid-Tejo inter-municipal community itself, reducing the value by 40 % for students as well. After the confrontation with these real numbers, will the PSD continue with the fake news? In the case of the Consignment, the reductions are also in the house of 100 €. In the case of Lezíria do Tejo, still in negotiations, due to the data we have, the impact will be extremely positive on the railway and on the highway, with numbers in the same house, i.e. this is a measure with a strong social impact in the district of Santarém, allowing to increase the budget of thousands of families through savings. This measure is also sustainable from an environmental and energy point of view and in the transition to a new model. Yes, it is in public transport that we should bet. It makes no sense, one day, we will be talking about sustainability and energy transition and, the next day, we will be defending the fall of the ISP (oil and energy tax) as the only positive policy in public transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u95	Mr Virgílio Macedo wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u96	Mr President, Mr Hugo Costa, let me remind you, so that there is no doubt about our position on this matter, that the PSD is in favour of a strong bet on the public transport service.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u97	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u98	But this has not been done by this government, with the degradation of public services since 2015. PSD is in favour of environmental friendly mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u99	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u100	And the PSD is in favour of reducing the costs of social passes as a motivation factor for their use to the detriment of private transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u101	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u102	But the PSD is also in favour of the equal treatment of all Portuguese, it is against an asymmetric treatment of Portuguese and, therefore, Mr Deputies, I ask you the following: do you think it is fair that those millions of Portuguese that do not have any kind of benefit with this measure and that only contribute to their taxes? On the contrary, when you have to travel to the health centre you have to use your car, you have to pay tolls, you have to pay gasoline and gasoline at an excessive price, the result of your tax increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u103	Paying for tolls? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u104	Do you think that's fair, sir? Does it seem fair that there is a per capita value given to the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon which is three times more than that given to the Metropolitan Area of Porto and that is ten times more than that given to the rest of the country? That's what the PSD claims! Furthermore, Mr President, this measure to promote the use of public transport is welcome, but the reduction in prices of social passes is only one factor, given that there are two other important factors: the supply and quality of public transport services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u106	With regard to the offer, what did we hear? Zero! About the increase in offer? Zero! And with regard to the quality of public transport, we have not heard anything! That should also be another vertigo of this paradigm change with which we all agree, that is, price reduction, supply increase and quality increase. Only in this way will we all be convinced that we should use public transport. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u107	To reply, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u108	Mr President, very quickly, I just wanted to say that, after this question by Mr Virgílio Macedo, we still do not understand the position of the PSD. Are they in favor or are they against? [[PSD protests.]] The fact is that they voted against this measure in the State budget! It should be told to all Portuguese that the PSD voted against this measure in the State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u109	For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mr Trigo Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The measure of the single social pass is essential and will improve the lives of millions of Portuguese and Portuguese people living in the suburban areas of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. It is not worth discussing here who took this initiative. We know that who approved it in the State budget was the entire left hand of Parliament. And we know who voted against the State budget and this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u111	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u112	So, I think we're talking about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u113	That's what we had a lot to talk about!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u114	The second point I would like to emphasize is that this measure will obviously increase the demand for public transport. There is something to be done from the point of view of supply, the coverage of the public network and the private network and the quality of service, but the demand will stimulate the improvement of supply. To conclude, I wanted to talk again about the urban myth defended by the PSD and now recalled by Mr. Virgílio Macedo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u115	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u116	It is not the Portuguese of the interior that are financing the Portuguese of the metropolitan areas. Most national taxes are created in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and on the coast, being transferred—and well—to the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u117	I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u118	Therefore, it is a fallacy, it is completely false to say that it is the Portuguese of the interior that are financing this measure. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u119	Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I know that some banks would like to see the PSD oppose this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u121	We've seen you in October!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u122	I know, too, that some ill-intended voices are trying to distort the message we're passing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u123	The problem is the message!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u124	But I think today it is clear that the PSD is in favour of this measure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u125	It's nothing! Even you think it's a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u126	...because citizens and families will save money.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u127	Mr Cristovão Norte thinks it's a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u128	PSD is in favour of this measure, because stimulating the use of collective transport promotes mobility, decongests cities and improves quality of life. The PSD is in favour of this measure, as I have always said, because it is against our alerts and our policies to protect the environment and combat climate change. It's just that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when the measures are good they must be well distributed. The truth is, for some time, there was talk about management, but one did not know very well what machine it was. Well, today it is clear that management is a backhoe that, while it is annihilating public services and raising taxes, it is digging the differences between Lisbon and Porto and between these two regions and the rest of the country. This was the case with the environmental fund, so it is with the social passes, so it will be with the acquisition of the electric buses, which still announced yesterday — treat the Portuguese differently and dig the gap between the regions. On the expectation that the ladies and gentlemen. Members understand exactly what I want to say here, I have brought you an understanding assistant. Let us see, then, how the government is distributing the money in this case. [[Protests of PS Members.]] Listen, ladies, so you can understand! For each resident in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the Government invests €27. The speaker placed 27 stacked coins on top of the bench. But already in my region, at the CIM (intermunicipal community) of Aveiro, for the same inhabitant, the government spends only 3 €. The speaker placed three stacked coins on top of the bench. That's the difference! A little further south, at the CIM of Leiria, 2 € will have to suffice for transport. The speaker placed two stacked coins on top of the bench. And in the north, in the area of Bragança, at the CIM de Trás-os-Montes, 1, 5 € is how much it is spent for each inhabitant. The speaker placed a coin on the bench and stood side by side four different piles of coins. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality! This government must realize, once and for all, that out there is a country that does not only serve to pay taxes and that the Portuguese, when they feel forgotten, are also revolted. This is a good measure, there is no doubt, but there are more people outside of it. The PSD sees the country as a whole and aims to extend these benefits to all Portuguese. The Portuguese, regardless of their region, know that they can count on the PSD and the question they ask is whether they can also count on you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u129	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me start by talking about justice, a citizen of Ermida in Baião, who, to travel to the district of Porto, saves, on his monthly pass, € 140 per month. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me continue to talk about justice, a citizen of the Marco de Canaves, who will have a 50% reduction in the value of his pass to move to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, saving about 500 € annually. We will talk about justice to a young man from Lousada, one of the country's youngest councils, who will pay less than 30 € monthly for his pass. We will also speak to other citizens, such as those of Vila Meã, Amarante, those of Penafiel, those of Felgueiras or those of Peace of Ferreira. The Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport is neither unfair nor electoralist; it is an extraordinary political one, making the use of public transport more accessible to the whole population. And if the PSD and the CDS-PP cannot understand this policy is because these parties are not up to the debate we are doing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u132	This is not the debate to put Portuguese against Portuguese. This is not the debate to put the interior against the coast or the coast against the interior! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u133	We're not just talking about a couple who live in Sintra or a young man who lives in Matosinhos. We speak of thousands of workers, from Penafiel, from Amarante, who are going through the district at 8 or 9 o'clock in the morning to be at the door of an industrial zone in Maia, the industrial area of São Félix da Marinha, to fulfill their work day.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u134	They have a discount on those who come from Lousada, because those who come from Vizela do not have!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u135	That is why this measure is fair, and that is why this measure is necessary! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to end without talking about justice and not talking about the future. The future has to talk about the change and the fight against the climate crisis, because that is what future generations ask this Assembly of the Republic. Working on this issue is also undoubtedly to combat this crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u136	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, this measure has an electoralist pendant. I would prefer that the debate should not be there, but when I asked the Socialist Party what was the answer to improving the supply, giving clear examples of difficulties in the Soflusa, Transtejo, CP, and I left the Cascais Line out of my mind, whose circulating material has already exceeded the life span for a long time, the Socialist Party's response was «this is another debate». That is, when the citizen is to buy the Navigator pass, pay 30 €, if it is municipal, or, if it is in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, 40 €, and if he wants to address the Soflusa, Transtejo or CP and does not have quality transport and in sufficient quantity, the Socialist Party's response is "this is another debate". Therefore, the citizen will not have access to quality transport, and that is unfortunate, because that is really the debate: to deal with the quality of supply. The CDS has always been in favour of both the extension of the Port metro and the extension of the eastern part of the Lisbon metro. We have long defended the quality and improvement of supply, precisely for then we have measures that can enhance mobility in large metropolitan areas, with environmental gains and with the strengthening of the use of public transport. So we have never been against any of these measures. I regret that, as far as the answer needed to be made about the offer, the Socialist Party and management do not say anything. I also wanted to say that this measure could be improved. The CDS does not want to take anything strictly to the good part of the measure for the Metropolitan Areas of Porto and Lisbon, but we want to give exactly the same rights and conditions to the rest of the country, eliminating inequalities, even within the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. A citizen of Torres Vedras, which is 45 minutes from Lisbon, pays pass 115 €, already with the new measure and the new prices, but who more in Mafra pays 40 €. I ask whether or not there is a barrier and inequality within the large Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, even being the carrier company. Within the country, this measure is essentially based on the responsibility of the CIMs, who will have to bear the measure or with the improvement of the network or with the improvement of the supply of transport, having a value that is residual and that gives for a little more than to the purchase of a bus in some CIMs — this was well explained here in the case of the CIM of Trás-os-Montes. Question : why did not measures be created — the CDS had proposed such measures — fair, balanced and fair? When here we proposed the tax status for the interior,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u138	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u139	... what we suggest is that all citizens of the interior, of areas, perhaps of low population density, could discount in transport, within IRS (tax on income of natural persons), all their transport and mobility costs. This measure was fairer, more balanced, more equitable and protected all citizens who needed to work, study or travel. What happened? The Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party voted against this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u140	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u141	So we say that we are still going in time if this measure—that is good! — with the principles of which we agree, it is possible to solve the problems of the country, not in fact creating gray areas in the country where there is no public transport. It is that where there is no public transport this measure is not effective. Where there are difficulties between network deficiencies CIM this measure is very short. If it is to pay with the State budget, if it is to make all taxpayers contribute to environmental improvement—because this measure comes from the environmental fund— then we must return to the citizen who contributes the same right, the same possibility of also using public transport in a fair and balanced way. And that doesn't happen with this measure. Examples are several. The CDS asked all CIMs how this measure would be applied. Of course, it will not apply equally with respect to implementation time. There is CIM, near Lisbon, where implementation will not be in April or May, but only for the year; CIM will invest in the network and, if you invest in the network, will not be able to make tariff reductions; and there are other CIMs that only make tariff reductions in small parts of the territory. So we say you could have done better. But in order to do better, we could not be electoralists, we had to think, in particular, to the extent, and not precisely the effect it has in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon. I repeat that we are not against the measure, but this increase in demand, in a situation of degradation of public services, which already exists and which is obvious — only the CP has abolished 12 000 trains! —, you have a risk. And I ask again: how will CP, in the Metropolitan Areas of Porto and Lisbon, where it ensures an essential offer of transport, enter this scheme? You are unable to answer. And that's why the pass of zone 5 of CP, instead of reducing, will increase 15 €. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u142	Mrs Liliana Silva signed up to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at this stage of the debate, it is peaceful in this House that we are facing a positive step in the direction of reducing tariffs and expanding the transport network. The problem is how it is being put into practice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u144	There's nothing like really! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u145	It has already been said to the people that «is fast and well, there is little who». This office was published on January 31, 2019. It informs the same thing that CIMs have to submit until March 15th the allocation plan. In other words, the CIMs only had about a month to go at the pace of the government clock in order to give back on data for which the majority did not have enough documentation.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u147	What do you have to say about this, Mr. Hélder Amaral? In addition, data for allocation of funds are based on 2011 censuses on public transport users, which are down-to-date for 8 years. In other words, in areas where there is no supply of public transport, populations are discriminated against in terms of money to increase and create the transport network. If they get less money, even if they need too much, nothing can be done. Let me give you some examples from my district, where the distributed money is barely enough to reduce tariffs, the more to improve the transport network: Road was entitled to €19 000; Valença received €25 000 ; Vila Nova de Cerveira was entitled to 18 000 €; Arcs de Valdevez received 48 000 €. If we think that, only in annual transport, the municipality of Arcos de Valdevez has an expense of about 750 000 € / year, we can easily compare with the 48 000 € you will receive. There will be no network expansion in the district of Viana do Castelo because the value distributed by the municipalities is already so low that I have doubts that it serves, including, to reduce the rates of everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u149	I give just one more example, to show the inequality with which the measure is being applied, even talking about someone with the same profession. A teacher who teaches in Lisbon has access to the social pass—and very well, so to speak! — but a teacher of Ponte da Barca who teaches in the Arches of Valdevez does not have a transport network that ensures his schedules. In other words, you have to travel on your car,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u150	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u151	... you have no right to take advantage of any discount on social passes and pay for gas oil, gasoline and its carbon rate. And, loaded with history, he funds with the payment of the carbon fee his colleague professor...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u152	That's right! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u153	... so that the latter can enjoy cheaper transport. [[PSD applause.]] What do you have to say about this, Mr? Is this the intention of the government? Is this the extent to which the Government defends itself as being everyone's? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u154	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u155	Mr President, Mrs Liliana Silva, thanking you for the question you have asked, I would like to say that it is easy to agree with the facts you have realized; I have already mentioned them myself. That is why this measure, being good, can come to be a fact measure, especially in the territories it has indicated. I can give you another example, that of the Middle Tejo area, to speak in an area near here, where today a single pass has not been sold — and the measure is to apply in April.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u156	That's not true! Hugo Costa has already bought!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u157	Not a single pass! Mr. Deputies, it is very easy to prove. If you go to Tejo Road, you'll realize you didn't sell a single pass! That is why I want to tell you, Mrs Liliana Silva, that you are quite right. The CIMs, in particular the Trás-os-Montes — or any other inside — either improve the network or fail to have a good transport offer. It is that the budget's funds are not only restrictive as they transfer to the CIS the responsibility of strengthening that same word in the future. That is why the data brought here are not only true as worrying, because they indicate that the measure is, in a certain sense, perverse.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u158	It's good, but it's perverse! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u159	Not only the censuses and the data on which these measures were based are not correct, but also the State does not fulfil its obligations to private transport companies. And even there is a perverse effect of the measure,... [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u160	That's good, but it's perverse! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u161	...because the less public transport they use, the less they receive. This means that, within the country, we are not encouraging the use of public transport. That is, the government has the measure, announces the measure, campaigns at the big centers, because it knows that in the big centers...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u162	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u163	... is concentrated the largest number of votes, but then, on the inside and on these issues that we have put here and that it is possible to solve, nothing says and nothing solves.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u164	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u165	I shall finish, Mr President, by thanking the tolerance. The answer given to me on the subject of the offer that « this was another debate» shows the Government that we have. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u166	But it's a big move!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u167	Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the major problems of such a programme, which has clear objectives of promoting sustainable mobility throughout the country, is that of the imbalance that may exist between the expectations that the programme creates and the ability to achieve them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u170	That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not only possible to make proclamations or only measures which, in some respects and some territories, have very little effect. Recently, I participated in a debate in which two representatives of the inter-municipal communities mentioned here by Mr Hugo Costa, the Socialist Party, the Tejo Léziria do Tejo and the Tejo Medio Tejo were present. The representatives of these CIMs said at the time that the financial envelope that would actually fit them would not be sufficient to make the two components that the Programme of Support for Tax Reduction in Public Transport includes — on the one hand, the component of the tariff reduction, simply, and, on the other hand, the component of public investment in sustainable means of transport and friends of the environment — and they stated that they would have to choose between one thing and the other. And between choosing to reduce the turnover of each consumer and of each Portuguese in those communities and assign a portion of this invoice to the investment, they would opt to reserve this money in full for the tariff reduction. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a position which, in the short term, can satisfy many expectations but which, in the long term, will certainly frustrate those expectations. And why? Because the lack of public investment will cause people to be confronted sooner or later with the fact that they are not able to enter public transport because of lack of supply capacity or, then, that they are confronted with the fact that they have to subject themselves to an offer of public transport without quality and, above all, without respect for environmental sustainability standards, which we all support to be established. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we said at the time of the 2019 budget debate, the financial envelope — initially of EUR 83 million, which was then increased with the approval of a proposal from the CFP to EUR 104 million — cannot reach these two components of a programme to support tariff reduction: the reduction of tariffs in a radical way, with which we fully agree, and public investment. It is not surprising that, in the case of public investment, this does not happen and is not preferred by all parties. The government itself provides an example of the fact that public investment continues to have absolutely embarrassing numbers with regard to the ability to make public investment in the country. In particular, as has already been said, the 2020 Railway Programme is three years behind and more than half of this programme will only be able to be implemented in the next National Investment Programme 2030. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude only by saying that the ability to fulfil Portuguese expectations would be different if the proposals we have come to make of public investment, investment in the circulating fleet of rail and road transport operators, in order to acquire and make available to people the means of transport friendly to the environment, had been accepted. This capacity would be different if public investment had been released from the constraints of the budget deficit, from the zero budget deficit policy that the Socialist Party Government continued throughout this legislation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u171	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Neves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party naturally accompanies all measures aimed at improving mobility and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u173	Follow nothing! They voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u174	In fact, we have portfolio, we've been showing it: we invest in transport when we were in government,... [[Yells and protests from BE and PCP.]] ... we put the accounts of public transport companies in order, because there is no good public service with broken public companies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u175	That's how they were in 2011 and that's not how we left them in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u176	All right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u177	Nor can anyone forget about Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva and his measures in favour of the environment. This past is ours, this portfolio is ours and should be remembered today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u178	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u179	But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Social Democratic Party regrets are not these measures, they are the ones that have been forgotten by these measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u181	In fact, the Socialist Party, in this debate and with this legislation you want to approve, is next to that phrase that says that Portugal is Lisbon and Porto and the rest is landscape. It's just, for us, that's not true. Portugal is Lisbon, Portugal is Porto, it is the rest of the continent and also autonomous regions. Allow me, Mr President, to set an example for the PSD to govern. I will give you the example of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. From this month there are social passes in the Autonomous Region of Madeira for all Madeirans, for all the Saints, for those who live in the cities but also for those who live inside the island. For us, there are no first or second Portuguese, all must receive the same measures, all must have the same attention. It says the Socialist Party, on the question of transport and whether or not we are prepared to apply the law, these discounts, that the increase of passengers is for another debate. It is not for another debate, it is for this debate! In fact, this is the way to govern the Socialist Party: it governs by decree but does not prepare the country for the measures it adopts. That is to say, the Socialist Party is in favour of reducing the price of social passes and we too, but we think transport companies should be prepared for these measures and they are not. Mr President, I conclude by saying that in Madeira we are excluded from a programme which is the Plan of Support for Tariff Reduction. It is unfair, because we, directly or indirectly, have contributed to this plan and, unfortunately, we do not receive any money from this plan. It is unfair and responsibility lies with the Government of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u182	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is natural that anyone who opposed this measure, who voted against it in the State budget, particularly the PSD and the CDS, now tries to make the guts of heart to say that not you, who is, after all, a good measure and even agrees with it! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's too late! They cried late because, if they were in agreement with the measure, they should have voted in favour of the State budget and not against, as they voted! [[PCP applause.]] We realize that you want to erase history and discuss it, saying: "Oh, someone is arguing about the paternity of the measure! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to reach this solution that was found in the State budget, a great deal of struggle was needed, which you devalue, a lot of effort and a lot of struggle from the populations, users, so that you could have reached where you came from, and that you don't want to know, devalue! It took a lot of initiative and intervention from the CFP so that this'piano' would be loaded to the back until the State budget could be resolved. You guys want to put a sponge on all that. That's all I needed! It was only lacking that, after what had been fought to achieve this measure, it would now appear as a spontaneous act of generation of history, without the struggle of workers, users and populations being valued and without the initiative of the CFP being recorded. It was just what was missing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] More: We say this with the notion of the path that is to be made. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are millions of Portuguese who will benefit from this measure, most of them didn't even believe this was possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u184	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u185	I conclude, Mr. President. Only now, that they could begin to compare the steps with the price reductions envisaged is that people begin to believe that this is possible and some doubt that it will continue and that it can come to be fulfilled in order to serve their needs. Because we're here to keep blocking this fight, to ensure the joint...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u186	Mr. Deputies, you really have to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u187	... between the metropolitan areas and the neighbouring municipalities, so that there are solutions to solve these problems. So that the application throughout the national territory...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u188	Mr. João Oliveira...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u189	... it really serves the needs of the people and so that this measure can, to its full extent, have the expression that the people deserve in the right to public transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u190	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u191	We will probably continue to block many of these battles alone, but, as this decision made in the last State budget proves, it is worth fighting, because we are fighting to achieve the objectives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u192	For the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this very short time I have felt, however, the duty to ask for the floor to try to restore the truth in the debate, when I heard Mr PSD say, with all these letters, "we invest in public transport when we were in government". This is to laugh, sir! Or are you playing with your short memory? From whom? [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] Do you want me to remind you of the increase in transport prices that you have constantly made while you were in government? Do you want me to remind you of the way in which they closed the offer of rail transport to this country outside, from inside to the coast? Do you want me to remind you of how you have not invested in anything, strictly nothing, in the purchase of new wagons or in the purchase of new ships for river transport? Oh, my God! More: how did they not invest in anything and even squander the way this fundamental circulating material is maintained? Oh, my God! O honourable Member, for God's sake! It is not worth lying to try to be right about what you are all fighting about: 'We are in favour, but this measure should not exist'! Open... No, we Greens are consistent. We have battled for the reduction in transport tariffs and we are in favour, we voted in favour of the State budget, this measure in relation to the single pass. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u194	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three days after the entry into force of this measure, the Socialist Party committed the sin of the sovereign. He decided to take a secure good measure and rub it in the face of the other parties. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] However, what leads from here is that, generally, all parties have pointed to custom defects, because it is incomplete and has no equity. From the Left Block to the PCP, CDS and PSD all said the measure is good but it has insufficiency. In other words, I am also asking now why the Left Block and the PCP, with so much joint position and so much State budget voted, have never imposed this as a condition. Was this important or not? [[PSD applause.]] from the point of view of the initiative of the Socialist Party, if it came here to boast itself, the measure is good, but it takes from here the message: it is insufficient, unfair and has no equity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u196	To close the debate, Mr César, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will make a brief statement to close the Socialist Party's participation in this debate. We have further succeeded in this debate on this measure of social passes when it takes three days to start its entry into force and a few days after the disclosure of the first estimate of the budgetary implementation of the past year, in which the negative budget balance was the lowest of the last 40 years. This indicator represents an extraordinary transition and a huge victory for the credibility of Portugal abroad and for the confidence of Portuguese in their own country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I relate one thing to the other because, at the same time, they demonstrate how it is possible to reconcile budgetary prudence with a strong social protection policy and with improving the economic climate. That was the PS bet, that's the winning bet. Indeed, this simultaneity shows how successful the policies that the PS government has been implementing have been. at the same time, we promoted the growth of the economy, created jobs, helped to recover and strengthened our companies, attracted private and foreign investment, credible the country obtaining enhanced gains with the reduction of debt interest, improved our capacities to cope with crises, created margins that will also enable us to strengthen investment in improving and modernising public services and recovered measures of enormous social scope and attenuating poverty and inequality, including now this genuine revolution in social pass policy. We therefore have many reasons to be proud of the results achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Last January, I recalled in this Parliament the improvements achieved in the lives of Nuno, Mariana, Augusta, João, Hugo, grandfather of André, Fernando and Luís. I am not going to talk about them all again, because, fortunately, they, like so many other Portuguese and Portuguese, have continued to gain security and progress in their lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm not going to tell you about Augusta — do you remember? — who had already hoped to improve their available income also with the new social passes, but I want to tell you about Mariana, to whom they should apologize, yes, those who took away all their hopes when they left her unemployed and without support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] As you recall, with the PS in the government Mariana has found a job, although still with the national minimum wage, which has again been increased this year. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u198	I'm asking the ladies. Members who allow the intervention to proceed normally.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u199	They're in a hurry to go buy the pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u200	Let's sit down! Open... [[PSD protests.]] It's hard to hear, isn't it? It's hard to hear, but they'll hear! Mariana, who travels daily to work between Azambuja and Lisbon, went yesterday to buy her social pass and says that instead of the 94, 95 € she spent monthly, she now bought it for less than half of the price, for 40 €! It's more than 55 € with which Mariana counts to cope with her expenses. at the end of a year it represents a savings of more than 600 €, as if it had passed to receive more a monthly salary. But besides Mariana, her partner and her two children also travel daily between Lisbon and Azambuja. It is in Lisbon that they exercise their professional and school life. Mariana's family will benefit from the « family pass» from July, which allows a monthly saving of €252, €30. Instead of the 332, 30 € that he paid monthly, his family will pay 80, 00 €. At the end of the year, it will be, after all, more than €3,000 that save, to no longer speak of the €400 that will benefit from the measure of free school textbooks for your two children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's for families like Mariana's that PS works to help. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We are not like those who have ignored the « Marianas » of this country, or who, piously, now apologize for little or nothing they have done for them, or almost never remembered them, and even voted against this measure of social passes, as was the case with the PSD and CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mariana, like thousands of other people and families, have felt in the last three years, year after year, their incomes have increased and their lives have improved. They're families like Mariana's that keep us fighting. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The programme to support the reduction of tariffs in public transport may also be considered, as has already been pointed out, as a measure of strong environmental benefit, due to the immediate and potential effects on the reduction of individual passenger transport. For example, every day they enter Lisbon 370,000 cars, i.e. the equivalent of a compact row of light cars from Lisbon to Paris. On the one hand, there is a significant and indispensable investment in the capacity of collective transport and, on the other, a significant and progressive increase in the existing transport network throughout the country and the number of its users and beneficiaries. The programme to support the reduction of tariffs, however, has a huge social dimension, which is coupled with a set of measures taken during this legislation with the same orientation and care. Examples are the examples of the increases in national minimum wage and pensions; from justice to new pension pensioners with long long-term careers; from the replacement of the supplementary supplement for the elderly to the poorest pensioners and from the reference value of the social income for inclusion; from the increase in the national minimum wage and pensions; from justice to justice to new pensioners with long-con contribution career career careers; from the replacement of the supplementary supplement for the elderly for the poorest pensioners and from the reference value of reference of social income for inclusion; from the increase of the family allowance; from the increase in family allowances; from justice to new pensioners with long-term contributions; from justice to justice to new pensioners with long-term career careers; from the replacement of wages cuts in wages; from the end of wages cuts in wages; from the full payment of overtime, electricity and natural gas and natural gas, culture; from the launch of a new generation of housing policies and housing policies; from the provision of free free school manual, free and free and effective, effective and effective, effective and effective measures, effective and effective and effective measures, and effective and effective and effective, and effective and effective measures, and effective, and effective and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective and effective, and effective and effective, and effective, and effective and effective, and effective measures, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective and effective and effective measures, and effective, and effective. and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective and effective measures and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective measures and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and effective, and ensuring, and effective measures, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and effective measures and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, and ensuring, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we confirm in this line of priorities the quality of governance anchored in the provision of people's needs, the reduction of inequalities, the dignity of work and the protection of Portuguese families. That is why it is worth being in the government. That is what we have demonstrated once again here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u201	We have reached the end of this agenda item. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, don't interrupt. I am announcing the next points of our agenda and they are not justified apart, so I ask for peace in the Chamber. of the third item on the agenda is, without time for discussion, motion for a resolution No 80 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. of the fourth point, also without time for discussion, is resolution No 85 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres, signed in Beijing on 9 October 2016. We will move on to the voting period. I ask the services to present the results of the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 201 presences, to which are added seven Members who have not been able to make their electronic record ( Carlos Abreu Amorim, Margarida Mano, Mauricio Marques and Pedro Roque, PSD, Miranda Calha and Pedro Murcella, PS, and Catarina Martins, of the Block of Left ), perging 208 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin with Vote No 792 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by PS and CDS-PP members ) — Despite the death of João Vasconcelos, to which I would like to associate and which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u202	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last March 25, in Lisbon, at the age of 43, John Pedro do Rego dos Santos Vasconcelos. Natural Leiria and entrepreneur since the age of 18 in the tourism and services sectors, it has been noted since early by civic participation. Member of the National Secretariat of Socialist Youth between 1995 and 2000, then member of the National Political Committee of the Socialist Party, has always marked its party activity for a contagious availability and comradeship. He was one of the major promoters of youth association, having occupied the Vice-President of the National Association of Young Entrepreneurs (ANJE), between 1999 and 2005. in these functions, he assumed the particularity of never remaining in the incentive to innovation and internationalization, traces that were always present in his business activity. In 2011, he was appointed to the presidency of Startup Lisboa, then created, and transformed it into a reference in the pregnancy of ideas and projects and in the launch of business initiatives. During this period he was also responsible for LIDE Entrepreneurship and directed TIE Global Portugal, of the World Entrepreneurs Association. As a cause man, in 2015 organized the Aylan Kurdi caravan, a support movement for Syrian refugees arriving in Eastern Europe, which joined three trucks loaded with dozens of tons of clothes, food, medicines and toys for thousands of families. In 2015, he took the record of the Secretary of State for Industry of the XXI Constitutional Government, forever being linked to the promotion of entrepreneurship and the digital economy in Portugal. in these functions, following the contacts that had already come from Startup Lisboa, it had a decisive role for Portugal to be the country chosen for the realization of successive editions of the Web Summit. He had the conviction that Portugal could be the best country in the world to create a business, and the desire to contribute to that ambition. In his time at Startup Lisboa, he appointed his function as chief happy officer. Everyone who has deprived or contacted him knows he deserves that title. His death makes the country poorer. Because it leaves us a huge heart of generosity and joy to live, because we separate ourselves from someone who misses much of the country's claim. Meeting in plenary session on 29 March 2019, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of João Vasconcelos and presents its heartfelt condolences to his family, to the Socialist Party, of which he was a militant, and to all those who felt his loss. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u203	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 797 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PSD ) — I regret the death of the plastic artist Guilherme Correia, which will be read by Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last March 28th the marine plastic artist Guilherme Correia. Guilherme Correia was born in the Great Navy in 1923. It is part of a family of plastic artists, including his father, João Correia, who noted himself in the art of painting oil and watercolor, getting to paint scenarios for the National Theatre. Guilherme Correia took over the Artistic Directorate of the Portuguese Industrial Company and also of the Santos Barosa Factory. It is represented at the Maria da Fontinha Museum, in Castro d’Air, and in several private collections, within and outside the country. Exhibition at the II Biennial of the Artists of Leiria, promoted by the City Hall of Leiria, also being part of its organization. Present in the five Biennials of Alenquer, as Guest Artist. Most prominent individual exhibitions in the Capitel art gallery in 1974, 1982, 1984, 1993, 1995 and 1998. Invited by international artists to be present at the Cultural Center of New York, in Barcelona, in the Caribbean and in Tokyo ( 2006 ). Author of the symbol and medal of Tourism Leiria - Rota do Sol. Author of the portrait of Professor Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and a work at Rodrigues Lobo Square, to the Conservatory of Arts of Leiria. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic assembled in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of Guilherme Correia, and addresses his condolences to his relatives. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 798/ XIII/4. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Despite the death of architect Manuel Graça Dias, to whom I also personally associate, which will be read by Ms Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u206	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Manuel Graça Dias marked the last decades of architecture in Portugal. Through his work, but also as a professor and divulner of architecture, it was one of the faces of contemporary Portuguese architecture. Freedom of expression was his touchstone. Marcou the cosmopolitan Portugal that emerged in the 1980s and, since then, always with the same lightning, through the design or word, brought to Portuguese architectural culture a heterodox look on architecture and its context. Disassembly, incomplete, bold, with a cultured and informed lucidity, starts his academic journey in Lisbon, where he will become a teacher. It is, however, in the port that makes its doctorate in 2003. As a teacher, he marked, in both cities, generations of young students, with his comprehensive and prejudice-free look on architecture, city and territory. Manuel Graza Dias, who died early on March 24, at the age of 65, will certainly have a place in the History of Portuguese Architecture. The Assembly of the Republic here pays tribute to this architect and unique figure of his culture, expressing his deep sorrow for his death, as well as to address his family and friends the most sympathetic condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u207	Before we vote, I wanted to express my sorrow to the family of architect Manuel Graza Dias, who is present in the galleries. Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 799 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS and CDS-PP Members ) — Regret of the death of Zeca Mendonça. I have already given my condolences to Mr Fernando Negrão, leader of the PSD Parliamentary Group, and I will give him the floor to be Mr Fernando Negrão himself reading this vote. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President, on behalf of the entire PSD parliamentary board. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last March 28th, the historic press advisor of the Democratic Social Party, Zeca Mendonça. It was as security that José Luís Mendonça Nunes began working at the PSD in 1974, having moved to the press advisor in 1977, where he stayed for 40 years. Discreet, competent and loyal to all proof, he worked with 17 PSD leaders, with hundreds of members of his party and with JSD, with whom he always had a very special relationship. His humanism, experience and sense of humor made him an unmistakable figure of the PSD and Parliament, being much more than a spectator. It is fair to say that many things happened as they did because of their sensitivity to media management. Zeca Mendonça, as it was well known, was the personification of the ideal of democratic coexistence, loved and respected by all to whom his life touched — the leaders of his party, the parliamentary group, the working colleagues, the leaders and workers of the different parties and all journalists, from veterans to younger ones. Your departure leaves us all a difficult void to fill. The best way to honor Zeca Mendonça is to know, all of us, that there is more to unite — in life and politics — than to separate ourselves. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of Zeca Mendonça and addresses its condolences to its relatives. All the time, Zeca Mendonça! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u209	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Government, through the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs here present, has just informed the Bureau that it is also associated with the vote of regret, that we have just voted for the death of Zeca Mendonça. The following vote No 796 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by PS ) — Condemning and weighing the massacre in the village of Ogossagou, Mali. Secretary Sandra Pontedeira will proceed to the reading of this vote. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u210	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last March 23, there was another massacre in the central region of Mali, this one in the village of Ogosagou, which led to the death of 135 civilians, including women and children. The population of this region of Mali has repeatedly suffered from the proliferation of confrontations and consequent escalation of violence between the Fulani group and ethnic groups Bambara and Dogon who over time have created their own anti-jihadist self-defense militias. Only in 2018, these ethnic clashes between the two factions led to the death of more than 500 civilians in the central region of Mali, according to the UN. On Sunday, after the massacre, an extraordinary Council of Ministers was convened in the presence of the newly elected President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, having been ordered to dissolve the militia Dan Nan Ambassagou, composed of groups of ethnic Dogon, to which the authorship of the massacre is attributed, as a way to make it clear to the country that the protection of populations will continue to be taken solely by the Malian State and not by armed militias. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session : Strongly condemns and repudiates the massacre in the village of Ogosagou, Mali, as well as all the acts of violence perpetrated against the population of that country, expressing its deep regret over the death of these 135 civilians and of all those who have died as a result of this conflict to this day; Calls on the perpetrators of the massacre to be held accountable and to be taken to ensure the safety and protection of the population of central Mali through the disarmament and dismantling of all militias operating in the region; Reiterates the efforts of the international community and its support to the Mali authorities, aiming at the peace and stability of that territory as well as the need for a rapid resolution of the conflict and the full implementation of the Peace and Reconciliation Agreement in Mali. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Come on, now vote on vote No 787 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by PS and PS Members ) — From praise to athletes medalled at the World Games Special Olympics. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 788 / XIII / 4. a ( tabled by the non-registered MemberPaulo Trigo Pereira and signed by PS, PSD and CDS-PP Members ) — Congratulations on the doctors of Hazem Hadla and Same Hamati and on welcoming the action of the Global Platform for Support for Syrian Students, which will be read by Secretary Sofia Araújo. Before, however, I would like to welcome the presence of the former President of the Republic of Jorge Sampaio and some Syrian students in the Tribune of High Individualities. [[Congratulations from the PS and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, standing, and from the PSD, BE and CDS-PP.]] Madam Secretary, please proceed to the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u213	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Hazem Hadla successfully carried out on 4 January 2019 at the University of Coimbra, her doctoral tests in Electrotechnical Engineering and Computers, with a thesis entitled Predictive Load Angle and Statusr Flux Control of SynRM Drives for the Full Speed Range. Samer Hamati also concluded, on January 31, 2019, at the University of Minho, his doctoral tests in Economics, with a thesis entitled Essays on Economic Growth in Post-Civil Conflict Countries. The doctors of Hazem Hadla and Samer Hamati have the symbolic value of being the first doctorates of students supported by the Global Platform for Support for Syrian Students, founded in 2013 and chaired by the former President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio. In collaboration with the Portuguese Government, higher education institutions and other national and international partners, through a scholarship programme, the Platform has enabled Syrian students, in the absence of war situations and dramatic living conditions, to resume their university studies in an environment of peace and stability. The examples of the persistence of Hazem Hadla and Samer Hamati, who have now obtained the degree of doctor, and of 60 other Syrian students who, in previous times, have obtained the degree of master, must be an inspiration to all young people, are a cause of pride for Portuguese and Portuguese and demonstration of Portugal's spirit of solidarity in Europe and in the world. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its satisfaction with the doctors of Hazem Hadla and Samer Hamati and welcomes the pioneering role and leadership capacity that the Platform has demonstrated within the international community in promoting a rapid response mechanism for higher education in emergency situations. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u214	Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 789 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings by the centenary of the Association of Former Students of the Institute of Odivelas. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and Abstaining from BE and PAN.]] Let us now vote on vote No 790 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP and signed by PS Members ) — Congratulations on the victory of the Futsal European Championship of the Clergy by the Portugal Selection, whose champions are present in the galleries. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to move during the vote, because it is not possible to count votes with the honourable Members. Members on the move. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against BE, the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions of the PCP, the Greens and 40 PS (Alexandre Quintanilla, Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, Ana Passos, António Gameiro, António Sales, the Bachelor of Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Constança Urbano de Sousa, Diogo León, Fernando Anastácio, Fernando Roccha Andrade, Filipe Neto Brandão, Francisco Roca, Hugo Costa, Hugo Pires, Isabel Alves Moreira, Jamila Madeira, Joaquim Rapado, Jorge Gomrá, José Manuel Carpinteira, José Rui Cruz, Luís Soarezó, Luís Pedro, Vihenda, Manuel Caleira Luzo Lucas Cabal, Marques Maria Maria, Marques Maria, Marques Maria, Marques Maria,]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u215	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u216	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u217	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on the point at which we reached the Friday votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u218	That's the sketch point!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. In the written statement you will talk about the point at which we have come, now, it makes no sense to talk about it. The vote was therefore adopted. [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS-PP, with members standing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u221	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u222	Mr President, as you have informed the Bureau, I would like to announce that I have already made a three-line statement of vote on this vote. [[Three lines?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u223	It is recorded, Mr President, but the detail of having three lines is also indispensable for the Bureau and for the other Members. We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 791 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — Concern about the situation in Tibet. I'm asking the ladies. Members who are on the move to sit down because it is completely impossible to vote with people walking in the room. Therefore, we do not continue the vote until everyone sits down or leaves the Chamber. [[Pause.]] Let us then vote on vote No 791 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by PS ) — Concern about the situation in Tibet. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the PCP and PAN and abstentions from The Greens and 3 Members of the CDS-PP (Ana Rita Bessa, João Pinho de Almeida and Telmo Correia).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u224	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u225	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u226	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote in my own capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u227	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u228	Excuse me, Mr President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u229	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u230	Mr President, that is to say, on this vote, we will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u231	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 793 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the NAP ) — Congratulating the Spanish State on the end of animal torture at the tournament Toro de la Vega. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the CDS-PP, the PCP, 1 PSP (Nuno Serra) and 2 PS (Ascensio Simões and Pedro do Carmo), votes in favour of BE, The Greens, the PAN, non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and 6 PS (António Cardoso, Carla Sousa, Catarina Marcelino, Luís Graza, Pedro Delgado Alves and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and abstentions from PS, PS and 2 CDS-PP (Filipe Anacoreta Correia and João Rebelo).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u232	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u233	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u234	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CDS bench will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u235	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue with the vote on vote No 794 / XIII / 4. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings to World Theatre Day. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 795 / XIII / 4. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and subscribed by PSD Members ) — Greetings by 70. NATO's anniversary. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were approved.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 2058 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to the People's Republic of China. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 2069 / XIII / 4. a ( PAR) — Extension of the operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions until the end of 1. the semester of 2019. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 80 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP abstention.]] We continue with the overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 85/ XIII/4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the People's Republic of China on the Mutual Establishment of Cultural Centres, signed in Beijing on 9 October 2016. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and the NAP abstention.]] We will now vote on draft resolution No 2033 / XIII / 4. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote, together with the media, possibly with the involvement of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, the development and adoption of a code of conduct adapted to the Istanbul Convention, with a view to the appropriate coverage of cases of domestic violence preventing an expected contagion effect. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 124 / XIII / 3. a ( GOV ) — Determines the cessation of legal decrees published between 1975 and 1980. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 151 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Amend mandatory safety measures in restaurants or drinks establishments with dance spaces or rooms. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and PS and with abstentions from BE, CDS-PP, the CFP, The Greens, the NAP and the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We continue with the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Health Committee on Bill No. 995 / XIII / 4. a (Citizens) — Maintenance and opening of pharmacy at the facilities of the hospitals of the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS, of the PSD Member Sandra Pereira and of the non-registered Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes against the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u236	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u237	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u238	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u239	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u240	Mr. President, I'm sorry, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u241	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u242	Mr President, I voted in favour. I don't know if that's what was announced...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u243	That is what has been announced, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u244	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u245	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u246	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u247	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u248	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u249	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u250	Mr President, it is to announce that on this vote I will also, on my behalf, present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u251	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft Law No 1070 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 466 / 99 of 6 November 1999 eliminating the possibility of reducing the value of the blood price pension when this result in the death of disabled armed forces. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall also vote on an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I would like to ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to give us an account of the opinion, recalling, before that, that votes are taking place for the election of a member to the Constitutional Court and three members to the Board of Supervisors of the Integrated Criminal Information System, which will be extended for half an hour after the end of this session. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Criminal Investigation of the Port — Judge 1, the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Case No 16068 / 18.0T9PRT, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro ( PS ) to intervene in the field of these cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-03-29.u253	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have thus come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 3 April, and will have on the agenda the Interpellation to the Government No 26 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — On the conditions for the exercise of security in Portugal. Good afternoon and good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 35 minutes.]]
