ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 35 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the Authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before opening the agenda, I request Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Duarte Pacheco, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the Drafts of Law No 1242/ XIII/4. a ( PCP ) — Modernization of the activity regime of the taxi sector ( 9 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 251 / 98 of 11 August ), which goes down to 6. the Commission, 1243 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Creates the Statute of Chronic Disease, which goes down to 9. the Commission, and 1244 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ), — Establishs the permanent financing scheme of the Tax Reduction Support Programme in public transport, which falls to 6. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos 2240 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the reintegration of ex-pilot soldiers from the permanent framework of the Air Force ( FAP ) who in 1988 and 1989 decided to leave the effectiveness of service for not having been granted a change to the reserve situation or unlimited licence, which is lower than 3. the Commission, 2241 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the procedure necessary for the classification of the building set composed of the factory of briquettes and tilted plan of the Espadanal mine in Rio Maior, as a public-interest heritage, which falls to 12. the Commission, 2242 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government adopt the procedure necessary for the classification of Rio Major salts as a property of national interest, which falls to 12. the Commission, 2243 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Wage indexes of special technical teachers of artistic secondary schools, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 2244 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic School of Germany in Almada, 2245 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic and Secondary School Francisco Simões, Almada Town Hall, 2246 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensure mental health care at work, which falls to 10. the Commission, 2247 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the integration of readers of public higher education institutions, which goes down to 8. The Commission, 2248 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Declaration of the 1 % allocation of the State budget for culture as a goal towards cultural democratisation, which falls to 12. the Commission, 2249 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Respect for the rights of teachers of specialized artistic education, 2250 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Requalification of the school park, which falls to 8. the Commission, 2251 / XIII / 4. a ( CFP ) — Consultation with representative entities of fisheries professionals in the development of programmes, plans and projects with an impact on coastal areas, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 2252 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the teaching of basic life support in schools, which goes down to 8. The Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, Duarte Pacheco. Before we even started the work, I just wanted to say that, at the last Conference of Leaders, all the agendas were decided until the end of this legislature. Therefore, the continuation of this massive entry of draft laws and resolutions, perhaps for statistical purposes, will be, let us say, answered not by clearly searching the rights of all Members and parliamentary groups, but by making the statistical evidence of which those who entered after there were no more possible schedules, so that public opinion knows exactly what happened in the Assembly of the Republic at this last stage of the legislature. Let us, then, enter our agenda, the first point of which consists in the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 293/ XIII — Restores the House of Douro as a public association and approves its statutes. The first intervention on this point is by Mr Francisco Rocha, the PS Parliamentary Group, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group wishes to stress from now on that the return of the text by His Excellency the President of the Republic has been beneficial to this process. It allowed more weight to be added to each of the points contained in the message from Mr President of the Republic, but also from the whole diploma, enabling the improvement thereof, with a view to broadening support for this initiative. They are quite perceptible changes that do not confuse the soul and the essence of the diploma, that we never wanted to stick to the past, and that they aim to give voice and strength to the most fragile part of the professions of viticulture. We therefore focus on what motivated and founded the consecration on a proposal for a law of the 'new' House of Douro as a public association of compulsory registration. It was a long political process, during which we have always appealed to consensus, from the left with the parties, but also with the PSD which, through its authorships represented at the CIM (Intermunicipal Community) of the Douro, affirmed and voted for their support for this statutory model.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u6	That is why we ask: will it be fair to try to reduce a model that has succeeded in integrating proposals and suggestions from the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ), the CNA ( National Confederation of Agriculture ) and even the Association of Exporters of Port Wine, and which has also encouraged the express support of the associations which in the region represent the overwhelming majority of cooperative wine cellars and the farmers of the Douro? [[P.S.'s applause.]] And about the peace and institutional normality that lives in the region, and that some, many, like to propagate, it is good to remember that it was only the left parliament that made this happen by having the establishment of an administrative committee that continues to solve, with great success, the issues concerning the giant debts of the former Douro House and its workers. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to provide the region with a new statistical model for the future, overcoming some of its weaknesses. With its own uniqueities, from which it highlights the benefit, this territory, which is World Heritage, still needs a public association of compulsory registration that adds, which is made to hear, which represents, in a full and un camouflaged way, the social mosaic of its producers, continuously promoting its defense, its representation, its formation, its innovation, but also its adaptation to new challenges, in order to ensure its sustainability. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality of the Douro is very different and complex. As Torga wrote, what is needed, to see this reality, is that our eyes do not lose the original purity and the heart, then do not hesitate. It was therefore time not to hesitate and contribute to the construction of a stronger, less unequal and more sustainable region for the future. It was this consensus that, from the beginning, we were forced to achieve, so that the Douro would continue a geological poem: absolute beauty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u7	Mr Matias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are about to complete a long and difficult process to return to the Durian region its historic Casa do Douro, destroyed and handed over by the government prior to a private association in conjunction with the powerful interests of trade and export of wines in the region. Today, it follows the majority that restored the House of Douro, maintaining the essential matrix of public association of compulsory registration and therefore representative of all wine growers in the Durian region. The return will be assured to the region of its historic and iconic headquarters in the Peso da Régua, as well as the remaining heritage of the settlement process of the ancient House. the long controversy resulting from the previous restoration of the House of Douro, highlights, with crystal clear evidence, what increasingly feared trade and exporters: the amplitude and strength of all producers, united in one organization, governed by democratic standards. The alleged lack of freedom of association, the phantom of a pretentious imposition of heavy quotas and the accusation that a new House of Douro would collide with the deserved activity of other organizations already working on the ground have never changed from smoking curtain to hiding the essential. Trade and export want to control producers and deny them their own voice, even though they all have their own representative organisations quite legitimately.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u10	Unfortunately, these and other arguments have found defenders with sufficient institutional weight to condition and delay the process. But, fortunately, that was insufficient to stop him. The new House of Douro, once reborn, has imperious and demanding tasks in front of it. The institutionalization of the new House will involve a huge effort of democratic mobilization throughout the region. On the other hand, overcoming the economic difficulties faced by the small producers of Dura will require their leaders independence, vision and courage. On the horizon of its associates and leaders, we believe that it must be the recovery of regulatory functions lost over many years under the mandates of various governments. The uniqueness of the Durian region requires strong regulation and not only the fragile regulatory competence today exercised through the Interprofessional Council. The law that will emerge from this legislative process does not result exclusively from the project of the Left Block and it differs in many important aspects, sacrificed in a difficult negotiation process for the construction of a majority, but, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Bloc is proud to have taken the legislative initiative to restore the House of Douro and the positions it has taken, without ever losing sight of the essential: to return the producers to their own representation. We now place the new House of the Douro in the warm hands of the people who work and invest hard in the durant shocks. The future depends on your work and on your struggle, as always and now even more. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u11	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr António Lima Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr President of the Republic vetoed the decree aimed at restoring the House of Douro as a public association and in his letter to us on this matter it could not be clearer. It reminds us that the creation of the House of Douro, public and compulsory registration, in 1932, resulted from the logic of the political regime and of the state corporateism in force at the time. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] We know that the extremes touch, therefore, it is no wonder that bloggers and communists, here with the incomprehensible support of the Socialist Party, want to restore an entity with mandatory union functions, own of totalitarian regimes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u13	Let's put this intervention on the Douro!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u14	They do so, quoting Mr President of the Republic, « in terms of several of those generally provided for in our constitutional framework». And, beyond the likely unconstitutionality, they do so, Mr President, repose a public entity but without assigning it any concrete public function and assigning it functions which are incompatible with the alleged public nature. As well summarizes the unsuspecting Prof. Vital Moreira : « We are facing a hasty restoration of the House of Douro as a public entity, without public powers but, yes, with trade union powers and which will probably end up in a dead end ». In view of this legal futility, Mr President of the Republic expressly requests that a wider reflection be given on other different formulas of the so-called "restaurant" option. And what is the response of the Socialist Party, the Block and the PCP here today? They make a trick: they keep the substance that led to the veto unchanged and take a small lateral, marginal example, used only to illustrate this aberration, the point of collective labour conventions, and eliminate it so that they can shake the flag that they have responded to the questions raised by the President of the Republic. It is a trick that is against Mr President of the Republic, but above all it is against the Durians. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u15	To insist on this legal uselessness, in this void of content, which, therefore, will not be able to solve any structural problems in the region, has only one explanation: at three months of the elections, they want to throw sand in the eyes of wine growers, create false illusions, manage unfounded expectations, attempting to make them go through crazy. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] The PSD rejects these challenges and only regrets that a great opportunity has been lost,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u16	It's the voice of the exporting houses!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u17	... with the express rejection of the Socialist Party to the challenge which we here present, so that together we can find a model of representation of production compatible with a modern and Europeanist vision that we thought we would share. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u18	For an intervention, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was last April 5 that the way of recovery of the House of Douro began as a truly representative public association of the Duronian winegrowers, particularly small producers, in view of the power of the exporting houses. In the face of the restoration of justice in the region, it was without a surprise that the exporting houses immediately came to the ground, raising their voice, or by interposed persons, against the diploma. Such a dispute — well organized, it is true, having well-positioned instruments and which will surely return to the burden after this debate — can only be justified by the conscience of trade representatives who have always exploited the Douro and its people, who have realized that the path they have assigned to the former PSD/CDS government to deregulation of production in the region has suffered a major reversal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr President of the Republic understood that the diploma adopted on 5 April 2019 could be improved, having returned to this House in order to consider further the content of the law of the House of Douro that we had approved by an absolute majority. The solution found in the Assembly of the Republic is that it ensures a strengthened status of a representative structure of all vine growers, allowing their participation in the ownership and management of the House of Douro and ensuring that about 30,000 small vine growers are not removed from the decisions that tell them directly respect, and corresponds to a demarcated region that is not only unique in our country, with its specificities in terms of production costs that are incomparably higher than other regions, is also unique in the world, and a challenge is not to give the voice to the vine growers who walk from the sun to the sun producing a unique product in the world at the top of the Douro and who currently do not even feel represented in the current House of Douro. The wine growers must feel represented, from the outset, in the Inter-Professional Council, where their interests are defended, which is why the reversal of the House of Douro can no longer be postponed. The theft that was made represented the improper delivery of the House of Douro, a wealth that does not belong to the Federation Douro Renewal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Either the House of Douro is returned to its legitimate owners, production, or the way is to expel thousands of small wine growers from the production of wine, either through the rescue of its production, and also rights, either by the end of the benefit — ultimate objective, after all — of those who want to concentrate the largest producers, including the five exporting groups that already hold many farms. That is why we firmly reaffirm the law that we have adopted and propose amendments corresponding to what Mr President of the Republic has requested. The CFP has always been next to the wine growers, as we were last Sunday in a debate that we made in the Weight of the River on the problems of wine growers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u20	They should have been there!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u21	The wine growers know that it is in the PCP that they find solutions to their problems. Therefore, the CFP maintains its willingness to ensure that wine growers are solutions to their problems, unlike the PSD, which is to complicate their lives and eliminate them from production. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u22	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that I am not surprised at the position of the CFP and BE, but I am very surprised at the position of the Socialist Party for the disrespect shown by the President of the Republic, for the disrespect shown by the former Government of the Socialist Party and the farmers of the Douro. I will explain: if you had the signature of Mr President of the Council, it would be consistent, because it is a proposal, as Mr President of the Republic says, worthy of a totalitarian state. To say here that the proposal has democratic standards when what it says is 'compulsory registration', laying down on the ground the constitutional principle of freedom of association, leads me to ask: the honourable Members. Do Members have any idea what you're saying?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u24	You've got to get rid of all the professional orders. They're all compulsory registration!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u25	But this attempt, which I recognize in the PCP and BE, to be paternalist, to politically protect people, to think that people need a protective wing in order to be able to decide their destinations, did not expect the PS to do it...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u26	Come on, Regua, make that speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u27	Clearly, the question remains: how is it possible today that any investor in the Douro, before investing, should be forced to join a public association? How is this possible in these days? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u28	How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u29	I must recognize that the House of Douro did not always work well, but who made the greatest attack on the competences of the House of Douro was the minister of the Socialist Party of his name, baptized by me, « Jaime Filoxera Silva », who removed the competences of the House of Douro to the IVDP (Instituto dos Vinhos do Douro and Porto ), nullifying the only activity that remained of the House of Douro. The Socialist Party began the way to...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u30	It's a lie! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u31	Sir, it's just reading! So the CDS did what we thought was right. But I go further and ask: in the past it works well? What we saw was a harmful management behind another harmful management. In 2014, the debt of the House of Douro was around 160 million euros, farmers were abandoned and that is why it was necessary to remove illusions and find solutions. Were those the correct ones? We can discuss, but that is not what we are doing today; today, it is a pure return to the past. But let's talk about the reverse for the Douro farmers and I give you the data that you are. Members — in particular Mr Ascenso Simões — can confirm that in the last decade, Douro has grown 28, 5 million bottles, more than 104 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u32	DOC!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u33	It was not with the old House of Douro, it was with the freedom of the farmers. It rose to 92, 4 million, plus 121 %. And you know how much it increased in exports? It increased 11, 8 million bottles. [[PS protests.]] I understand that economic growth, appreciation of tourism in the Douro, appreciation of the investments that exist today in the Douro for more and better brand, for more and better quality of wine, all this confuses those who want to control farmers, not respecting them, and here I must include some autarchs...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u34	PSD autarchs!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u35	...and some Members who want to return to the past, where, in fact, the guardianship was political... [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u36	And what's the evil here?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u37	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u38	I will finish, Mr. President. I don't need to ask the ladies. Members who visit the hearings held in the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, and in other committees, on what was the breakdown of the management of the House of Douro in the old model and what led to the despair of the Douro farmers. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u39	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u40	You want to go back to the past. Keep that stain in your resume. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u41	You don't know the reality? You don't know the producer houses? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u42	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are intervening outside the Rules of Procedure to reassure themselves because nothing serious is happening. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 293 / XIII, concerning the House of Douro, whose re-evaluation we now make following the return by Mr. President of the Republic, set out a proposal that the Greens have signed together with the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CFP. in this context, it should be noted that the proponents of the original bill, which, in fact, gave rise to the decree we are now re-appreciating, sought a solution that could respond to the concerns expressed by the President of the Republic in the message he addressed to this Assembly of the Republic. This solution is reflected in the proposed amendments to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 293/ XIII that the parliamentary groups of the BE, the CFP and the Greens presented in due course and which guarantee the essential of what was intended with the original proposal. However, in addition to the concerns of Mr. President of the Republic, the Greens begin to welcome the consensus reached between the proposing parties, which thus return to the House of Douro its original nature, as a public institution of compulsory registration, in addition to consecrated the statutes of the House of Douro. From the perspective of the Greens, this solution is a strong contribution to responding to a serious problem experienced and felt in the House of Douro, which has been dragging since 2013. A serious problem, remember, and it is important to say it in the face of the interventions of the PSD and the CDS —, created by the former Government of the PSD and the CDS, who met its high time during the early morning of 10 November 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u44	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u45	... with strange episodes such as the crackdown of doors at the House of Douro headquarters and even with police involvement. It was a real assault on the House of Douro, Mr. Hélder Amaral! It was a real assault on the House of Douro, Mr. António Lima Costa! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u46	And now what is it? They're the controllers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u47	And now, with these amendments, the Greens believe that this Assembly of the Republic is in perfect condition to return to the Douro farmers the ability to democratically choose their representatives in the institutions that will establish the rules of the Douro wine-growing, to return to the vine growers the property of its headquarters and the name of the Douro House, which thus returns to all the vine growers of the Demarcado douro region. We believe that, with this legislative process, we are building justice in the Douro region and promoting sustainability in such an important sector as the Demarcated Douro Region. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u48	Having concluded that this is the first item on our agenda, we will turn to the second item, which is the assessment of the Report of the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers. Mr President of the Commission, Mr Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words, on my behalf and on behalf of all the members of the Commission, are for Mrs Borges, whom I succeeded in chairing this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, to thank the way in which she organized and led the work at its initial stage. [[Congrats from the PSD and from Mr. BE Jorge Costa.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since very early it was found that there had been an error in the object of this Commission : the fixing of the investigation in the years 2004 to 2018 was an error, as it is not possible to speak and / or evaluate the CMEC ( Costs of Maintenance of the Contractual Balance ) of 2004 without the CAE ( Energy Acquisition Contracts ) of the 1990s. This became evident at the first meetings and hearings and is well highlighted in the approved report as well as in different explanations of vote. It was a long research and study process that all involved and motivated. More than 50 auditions, more than 200 hours of work and thousands of pages of information collected. All of this is available to all those who are interested in the matter, in an exercise of political transparency that dignsifies this House. The work has enabled us to confront pre-existing beliefs, to demonstrate the ways in which different governments have pursued, the mistakes made and the good decisions made over the past few decades. They also highlighted the difficulty in assessing, in the light of today's data, contracts made by the State for decades, long contracts where economic science has, in many cases, proved fallible in its forecasts. They also pointed out that, over the last few decades, the Portuguese State has always preferred to differ the costs of investment in consumer invoices, to the detriment of the investment made from the State budget. They also pointed out a number of decisions, at least doubtful, made in the first decade of the 21st century and on which judicial proceedings take place, for which I believe that the work and the information collected by this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission can help to determine the criminal responsibilities of those involved. The work also showed that it was necessary to wait for 2012 for a government to intervene for the first time on income paid to the sector in order to start an irreversible process of reducing them for consumers, which the Report itself quantifys by more than 2 billion by 2020, and it is certain that the impact of these same cuts continues until 2027. The work has made it even more evident that the future goes through the strengthening of renewable energy, the enormous environmental gains they provide. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the course of this mandate I have always sought to be a factor of cohesion and balance of the Commission, so that the work could be carried out to deepen the issue and to allow the different views on energy policy to have its area of intervention. This exercise allows me to have a certain distance about the process and the approaches that have been made and, I confess, the learning was a lot and questions that seemed to me to be obvious have ceased to be. I can understand that the representatives of the parliamentary groups, more focused on retaliating their pre-defined convictions, have more difficulty in this distancing. And this has become more evident at the end of the work, particularly in the obvious tactics in the vote on the report and the proposals for amendments to it, in which it has influenced more the party interest than the interest which has really been shown in the work: to confirm theseses preconceived without regard to the obvious contradiction; to seek to safeguard the decisions of a government, despite the evidence points to the error of its decisions; to value certain statements to the detriment of others, to value a certain narrative of energy policy. Finally, we had, as is normal on these occasions, a little of all this in the final phase of our work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I believe that we all make an excellent contribution to the study of a matter which, in the eyes of the citizen, is complex. The Commission's acquis is vast and very complete and will be a good starting point for all who want to study it, examine it and draw its own conclusions from it, without mental reservations and without taboos. I finish with a deep appreciation to the support team that was decisive throughout the process, dedicated, committed and competent. Without this team everything would be much harder.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u51	I would also like to thank all the Members and all the Members. Members of this Commission are always committed to participating and how the work could be carried out in a dignified manner, prestigious this function for which we were elected by the Portuguese. Thank you very much to each of you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u52	It is now the time of the rapporteur of this Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry to intervene. Mr Jorge Costa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by thanking the President of the Commission, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, who has just done, in particular the former President and the services, which have been inexhaustible throughout the Commission's work. The work of writing a work like this is difficult and I sought to do so in an inclusive spirit. Thus, in the final text and with structural amendments, including new chapters which were added by proposal from other parties, it was possible to make a report with dozens and dozens of amendments incorporated from all parties present in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. It is in this spirit of inclusion that I have come to be surprised to hear parliamentary groups publicly make accusations about the rigour and fidelity to the work of the Commission, these accusations which I have also heard from some interested parties in this context. The objective of this Committee of Inquiry was set out in the resolution which constituted it: to identify the size of payments for maintenance costs of contractual balance after the extinction of the EPAs; to identify the size of payments for production in a special, renewable regime before and after the extension of the guaranteed tariff which occurred in 2013; to identify the nature of the extent of use of the water-based public domain of the dams in favour of EDP; to identify the conditions under which decisions were made in all these processes, in particular considering the information available at the time; to identify the existence of favouring and corruption. In view of this and trying to synthesize, I would briefly like to state the main conclusions of our work, in particular those which give rise to concrete recommendations. First, the constitution of the EACs as a guarantee of future profitability not in a robust logic of a public enterprise with strategic objectives but, rather, in order to promote and maximize the state's cash in the privatisation process. Following this, and in the European legislative context, these energy acquisition contracts were converted into a new regime, that of the CMEC, of the costs of maintaining the contractual balance. The law was drafted and discussed in Parliament in order to maintain the levels of remuneration and the type of rules that constituted the previous contracts. The first important conclusion that the Commission of Inquiry has drawn is that this maintenance of the contractual balance of the EACs has not been respected at various points of the new legislation. According to ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ), the additional gains of EDP with the new scheme have reached EUR 510 million, which should be corrected, and this is the recommendation approved by the Commission of Inquiry, that is to say, as indicated by ERSE, the correction of the gains that EDP has had with the conversion of this maintenance of the contractual balance and that the remuneration of CMECs for the remaining period should be reviewed. Secondly, in the case of the Sines power plant, whose extension of the operation was permitted by Decree-Law No 240 / 2004 and subsequently implemented in 2007 by an administrative act of the Director-General of Energy, the Commission's recommendation is very concrete and directed: negotiations should be proposed to producers for compensation and, if there is no negotiating agreement, the State should take the initiative, in particular by means of an additional ISP (charge on oil and energy products) which allows the recovery of the values corresponding to the extension of the operation of coal plants. Thirdly, the remuneration of REN for the holding of public water land is excessive — EUR 80 million has been challenged by ERSE since the start of the establishment of this scheme — and the recommendation of the Commission of Inquiry is that this remuneration be terminated. REN shareholders benefited from a free extension of the deadline for granting the national transport network for seven additional years in 2007. This value should be determined and that decision should be fully scrutinized. Another important conclusion is that wind production in Portugal has a higher profitability than in comparable countries, in particular due to the existence of technological efficiency gains obtained by the delay between the time of the definition of remuneration and the time of the construction of power stations. The Commission's recommendation is concrete: to request ESRB measures to recover the advantages obtained by producers by delaying the entry into operation of this production and that this experience be considered in the definition of rules for future competitions. Another important conclusion of the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission concerns the tariff debt constituted from 2007 onwards, in the time of Minister Manuel Pinho. From 2011 onwards, it was legislate to reflect the financing cost of EDP, which resulted in the fact that, at the time of ownership of this debt and its sale on the market, the gains generated in operations were fully absorbed by EDP, generating EUR 200 million of profits between 2008 and 2017. The recommendation of the Commission of Inquiry, following the study by a working group involving ERSE, the Directorate-General for Energy and the Secretary of State for Energy in 2016, is that these gains be shared at least in the 50 / 50 proportion between EDP and consumers and that this rule be applied retroactively on the already verified gains, such 200 million euros wrongly accumulated. Trying to shorten, Mr President, and calling for its tolerance, there are concrete recommendations on the guarantee of power and its elimination, on the elimination of the investment incentive, on the service of uninterruptedness, which is excessive and must immediately have a roof established to contain its costs, in a new framework which defends the interest of consumers, in a service which has already cost EUR 727 million and has never been used.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u54	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u55	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to mention a very important point in the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry, which concerns the extension of guaranteed prices to wind production, decided in 2013 by the PSD/CDS Government. The recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry is also very clear here: whether it is negotiated with producers or, in the absence of agreement, imposes the replacement of the existing economic balance, by means of a legislative amendment that avoids the losses calculated today, from EUR 500 billion to EUR 1000 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u56	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u57	The Committee of Inquiry was not an archaeology exercise, the Committee of Inquiry was a work of knowledge, study, with a view to recommendations and corrections of deviations that we have in our electrical system today and which seriously penalise the economy and consumers. This work has been done, it is before the Members and our responsibility now begins, before the recommendations made and the need to legislate to correct them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u58	We will enter the debate period. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor, and he has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the main conclusions that we believe should be included in the Report on the work of this Committee of Inquiry, we would like to begin by stressing that the first conclusion is that the confirmed verification of the existence of excessive income in the national electricity system, identified as an over-remuneration of the assets of several economic agents in the value chain of electricity production, transport and marketing in Portugal. This thesis was fully consolidated in the hearings performed. The size of excessive income was assessed and demonstrated by the CFP in the documents that can be consulted in about EUR 5000 million. It is necessary for the executive and regulators to take the measures necessary for their complete elimination, considering, from the outset, the recommendations set out in this report. We are not talking about measures to start by 2020 or 2021. For this reason, the current Government now has responsibilities with which the CFP will confront Mr Minister today in the Parliamentary Commission. A significant part of the primary cause of excessive incomes, as was clear in the work of the Commission of Inquiry, was the objective of privatizing the main company of the sector in the country, the EDP, which integrated the vertical dismemberment process of the value chain into production, transport and distribution companies, and liberalization, opening to other companies the production and marketing activity of electricity. Excessive income is the concrete result of the energetic policy of successive governments. In summary, the XI and XII Governments of the PSD prepare the privatization of the EDP and prepare the EDP ; the XIII and XIV Governments of the PS, initiated the privatization of the EDP and the REN and implemented the EAS ; the XV and XVI Governments of the PSD / CDS, moved forward the transition of the CAE to CMEC ; the XVII Government of the PS, in addition to amending the legislation of the CMECs, advanced to the extension of the water and yielded, by dispatch, the extension to EDP, with prejudice to the State and without payment of the water resource rate. Excessive income, whatever its origins and nature, is not the result of chance nor of simple or complex operations, are the concrete result of concrete political options.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u61	We are faced with the serious violation of the constitutionally enshrined principle of the subordination of economic power to democratic political power, we are faced with promiscuity between public interests and private interests, we are facing the rotating doors and indications of corruption that this Commission registers and which can and should, of course, be considered for future developments. On the responsibility of regulatory entities, there are two clear conclusions: the entities knew and in all their technical, legal and administrative dimensions the problems of the sector that are the subject of the Commission of Inquiry. On the other hand, entities have not been sufficiently diligent and persistent in their complaint or in the proposal for measures to reduce, in particular, the increasing costs transferred to tariffs, to consumers, to businesses, to the real economy of our country. We are faced with a political responsibility which is also a responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic, when the CFP has alerted and called attention to the disastrous decisions that were being taken with the legislative authorization of the Assembly of the Republic. It would be important for the report to reflect that same reality, as well as the role and responsibility of the European Union, in particular the European Commission, throughout successive governments and throughout this process, which has also been highlighted and which should have been taken up with further clarity in this report. The CFP stated from the outset that it would not fail to contribute to a report which would make it possible to make known the facts, responsibilities and implications of this process. We have tabled amendments which would ensure a more factual, stricter and more consistent report. By first stage, the rapporteur, the representative of BE, and finally at the voting stage, on the option of PS, PS, and CDS, the fundamental part of these proposals was excluded from the Report, not only in relation to the conclusions to be removed from this process and the responsibilities to be charged, but from that point of view, in the light of the important matters of this Committee of Inquiry. It should be noted that both the CDS, or particularly the PSD, presented in the adoption of the Report a version and a reading of this process which clearly showed itself as a total alignment with the sector's economic group version, with the EDP at the head. PSD and CDS tried to omit...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u62	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. PSD and CDS tried to omit and delete whole chapters, full conclusions, and achieved almost all references to the European Union in line with the PS. We cannot let the memory and the truth be erased from the work of this Committee of Inquiry. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u64	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing in favour of sitting or leaving the plenary so that we can continue the meeting in the best possible conditions. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group took up, in 212 hours, 55 hearings and 61 meetings held by this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission, a dialogue and participatory position, a constructive position and no hasty judgement. In the work developed, we sought to contribute to an analysis of the electro-producer system, controversial agents and dissecting the decisions of the past so that in the future we can build public policies for the energy sector. Yes, we are interested in the future. I begin by saying that, in our view, there have been excessive incomes; however, they are not synonymous with illegals, as at many times has been demonstrated and placed in the report by the proposals of our Parliamentary Group. in this debate, we fought against the distortion of history, rewrites through custom attacks that drive the debate out of what is essential for the Portuguese. We stress the commitment that all parliamentary groups have placed in the development of complex work, as well as the work of the Rapporteur, Presidents and Services. The Socialist Party makes a positive assessment of this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, which allowed us, for example, to have knowledge of reports that otherwise we would not know, and thus illustrating the examples of the protagonist who admitted to having been censored, or others who did not know the dimension of what they had approved in the assumption of their government exercise. We must also be clear in stating that decisions must be contextualized and dated, taking into account the circumstances and historical data available at every moment, including technological maturity. This strategy has allowed us to overcome a number of misconceptions that have so far been pushed and emboldened in public debate; it has allowed us to point out that renewable energies are not synonymous with excessive incomes, and the narrative that fed this thesis destroyed in the various hearings, and the parliamentary groups who turned on this path abandoned their convictions. The conclusions and hearings are clear. The bases of the CMECs have a common root and face : the governance of the PSD and the CDS, in particular in the period 2003 to 2004, with Decree-Law No 240 / 2004. It also results from the Decree-Law the granting of dams, contracted in the same diploma that gave life to CMECs. The hearings allowed us, in our confrontation with the decision-makers of the time, to demonstrate fully in the light of the way that the diploma was built and approved, through the declarations in this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, of the government holder of the folder, at the time, by referring to him not knowing the content of what he had approved and disagreed, including, at a later date, of what he approved. The debate has proved that the transition from the former EACs to the CMECs has not met the ambitious financial neutrality, generating an overcost of EUR 510 million, and that according to the regulatory entity of the sector, they are only recoverable — as the final report, on a proposal from the PS, will be taxed — under the current legal framework, EUR 285 million. The debate has also allowed us to take a look back on the privatisation processes, and it is consensual that many decisions have aimed, at a previous stage, at valuing the assets that the State intended to alienate from the private. in these processes we are especially critical of how we were pioneers, in the face of our European counterparts, in privatizing the total capital of the REN, a natural strategic monopoly for the country. We believe in the importance of independent regulators, without predation, and that they aim to correct market failures, in particular in protecting consumers, in correcting existing externalities, in combating asymmetry of information, in combating market power and acting on natural monopolies. We do not attack, we do not discredit and do not dispense with the role of public regulators. Between the studies of the consultants — whether sponsored or not by private companies, and whose scientific seriousness we do not question — and the regulator's assessments, we have no doubt: we prefer to believe in the regulator. We defend, as expressed in the amendments that we have tabled, which have been adopted and, in turn, included in the final drafting of the report, that the way ahead is not to open litigation with the European Union, with potential costs for consumers, after, more than once, the European Commission has decided these processes and has done so in the same sense. The amendments cannot be made by breaking contracts and entering into the rule of law, they must be made with the sobriety of those who, safeguarding the potential costs that this route brings to consumers, believe in a balanced, fair and legal solution, always defending Portuguese consumers. Despite the existence of the above mentioned excessive incomes, we confirm that there is no space...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u66	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u67	... nor legal framework for unilateral decisions, potentially contrary to Portuguese law and punishing consumers. But this, which would not be the report of the Socialist Party if it were the rapporteur, is a report that, after these conclusions are adopted, allows us to work seriously and also defend a model of future sustainability, defending renewables and a policy where combating energy poverty is a reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u68	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the two Presidents of the Commission, the collaborators of the Commission and all colleagues. I would like to say that the CDS voted in favour of the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry because it considers that there are excessive incomes from the outset. And it's not because of any empirical feeling, it's because it supported a government that actually cut into excessive incomes. We therefore consider that it is worth making an assessment of the national electro-producer sector, that it is a little better and that the legislative framework that conditions it. From that point of view, I must say that the Committee of Inquiry has fulfilled its role well: today we know much more than we knew. We know today that there were some dogmas that were defeated. We know today that there has been good policy in encouraging renewable energies, but we also know that the State needs to be more careful in the initiatives and legislative processes, that it must create mechanisms for auditing, monitoring and monitoring contracts, which are long and, as such, may change a set of variables during its course. We also realize that we should have stronger, more active regulators and, perhaps, improved intervention capacity. A weak regulator is very expensive to the Portuguese state, it is very expensive to Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u71	However, the CDS voted against this Commission report, and did so because it considers that the document reflects a political vision of the Left Block, which reflects the positions already defended by the rapporteur — and not only before the start of the Commission. The report concludes on the basis of opinions, not taking into account the various statements in the Commission, nor the 13 000 documents received in the Commission over the months. Therefore, the CDS does not deny the existence of excessive income, but cannot ignore the fact that the Left Block has created here a narrative to disguise its own inconsistency, because it has not been able to reduce the value added tax of electricity to 6 %. [[Mr. BE Jorge Costa's laughs.]] I remember that the Left Block, throughout the duration of the Government of PaF ( Portugal to the Front ), presented proposals in all State budgets for the reduction of VAT to 6 %. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] I wonder if the Left Block, in the four budgets of the State which it has approved, has proposed a reduction of VAT to 6 %. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] I will say more, Mrs Catarina Martins said: "For a long time we have talked about the cost of production, but this government has talked about excessive revenues in electricity and therefore we need to act." And it says that there is a study of researchers from Cambridge University, which accurately determines the value of excessive incomes: between 2007 and 2020 would be 4 billion. Now, it is not 4 billion, because the report speaks in 2000 million, nor is it from Cambridge University, because the Commission has proved that this is a study by a consultant called Cambridge, whose report does not say anything about excessive income, except in its annex, a small reference to the internal rates of passage of the EACs to the CMECs. And say what? It states that the rates are not unreasonable. This is how false, poorly rigorous narratives are mounted on excessive incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u73	I would also like to say that in this Commission, the working group made by the Left Block and the Socialist Party has been omitted, and the person indicated by the Socialist Party at the time is the current President of ERSE. That is why, in one of the Budgets, the Left Block proposes an overtax for the renewable energy sector. Now, we all remember what happened to this supertax: Mr. Prime Minister disallowed the agreement, disallowed the Socialist Party's bench, and ended with the change of the Secretary of State and with the change of custody to another Ministry.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u74	There is nothing about the Committee of Inquiry!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u75	I don't know if that's also why the Left Block decided to open up a committee of inquiry for excessive incomes. But we can go to the ERSE study that was at the base of the committee of inquiry proposed by the Left Block. Unfortunately, it has been proved in the Commission — and therefore I speak of weak regulators and regulators who are not independent — that this had no legal or economic basis. And I only give as an example what is contained in the availability tests, which set up, according to the report by ERSE and according to the Commission's own report, EUR 285 million in excessive incomes. However, no expert, no statement confirms that this value has any rigor. ERSE itself, which indicates this value, says in its correspondence with DGEG (General Directorate for Energy and Geology), which is only an estimate, estimates that has no legal basis. And so says the Secretary of State dismissed, Jorge Seguro Sanches. Therefore, it is based on something that is not concrete, that is not rigorous, that is done. But in conclusion, does this mean that there are no excessive incomes? No, there's excessive income. And there are so many excessive incomes that the PAF government has cut into excessive incomes. It cut, with effective cuts, 708 million, plus 510 that ERSE identifies; cut — in the forecast cuts by 2020 — 208 billion euros; and cut in the cogeneration, wind, small water plants and power guarantee.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u76	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u77	I will finish, Mr. President. How were those cuts made? They were made in the way we always argue that they must be done: respecting the rule of law, respecting the contracts signed, on the basis of legal documents and the negotiating table. This is what the Government supported by the PSD and the CDS has done and that is why, so far, it is the only government that has been able to present real cuts in excessive incomes since this government has not been able to present a single cut in excessive incomes in effective terms. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u78	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to congratulate Mr Emídio Guerreiro, who presided over the work of this Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry ( CPI ) with a high sense of responsibility, rigor and impartiality, as already done by Mrs Mercês Borges, her predecessor. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of 358 days, more than 200 hours of inquiry and more than 13,000 documents gathered together, many Portuguese, of course, wonder whether all this work has been worth it. of our part, the answer is affirmative. The Portuguese learned that the revenues of EDP did not originate in the CMECs and in the legislation approved in 2004, but in the EACs, negotiated and signed in 1996, in the government of Eng.António Guterres. The Portuguese learned that the political decisions of the Socialist Government of Eng. José Socrates put Portuguese in the position of EDP debtors, creating a tariff debt that reached the EUR 5080 million in 2015. The Portuguese learned that it was the former PSD/CDS-PP government who for the first time put the issue of excessive income at the centre of government concerns and pointed out the need for corrective measures. The Portuguese learned that it was the former PSD/CDS-PP government who for the first time applied corrective measures which, according to the data accounted for by the Energy Services Regulatory Authority itself, executed until 2017 and planned until 2020, but which we know extends beyond that period, are equivalent to cuts in the overall amount of EUR 2048 million, of which EUR 718 million with direct and negative impact on EDP. The answer to the question about the existence of excessive incomes is therefore more than obvious. The former government, which no income generated, was the first to identify them and was the first to cut them. So what has failed in this Parliamentary Inquiry Committee? You failed the final report! It failed, however, because it gives as sound conclusions such as those I have mentioned, many others, and there are many, no accessions with the reality experienced by all those who have participated in this Commission ; it makes a table of the broad contradiction which took place in it only by relying on the views of the rapporteur, say the same as he had before the start of the Commission's work. We do not accept this attempt to rewrite the history, guided by the usual political design of the Left Block, against companies and against renewables. To remove this prejudice, this overly ideological vision, but also the invertedness and the many gross errors of quantification, that the best example is the use of a set of reference values of auctions that never existed, nor could they have existed, to calculate the impact of changes to the remuneration regime applicable to electro-producers,... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u80	That hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u81	... the PSD presented to the final proposal of the report more than four and a half hundred amendments. All of them were plunged by PS, the Left Block and the PCP. The "compressor roller" had previously been agreed upon by those three party forces. A « compressor roll » that failed only when the PS, after rejecting the proposed PSD amendments, decided to « pass the leg » to its partners and drop the whole Chapter 2, thus whitening the performance of the former Socialist Minister, Dr. Manuel Pinho,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u82	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u83	... with the allocation to EDP, under very dubious conditions, of the extension of the water public domain of dams, and which is still under investigation by the Attorney-General of the Republic. The Commission has had the ideal conditions to provide the Portuguese with a complete and rigorous framework for all political decisions and from there withdrawing the proper teachings. The political designs of the Left Block, with the votes of interest and occasion of the PS and the PCP, did not so allow. They lost the Portuguese, lost the energy sector, lost the Portuguese state. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u84	It hurts, doesn't it hurt? Oh, my God! That hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u85	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the interventions now heard show us how it was and how the Commission of Inquiry ended on energy incomes. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] For the PSD and CDS, excessive incomes have existed, yes, but they have been fully corrected and today we have a national electrical system expelled from any distortion and any privilege for companies that exploit it. For the Socialist Party, the legislative amendments proposed by the report are fair but may not be accepted. Here I would like to state very clearly the main issue arising from the conclusions and recommendations of this Committee of Inquiry: the mandate we all have for, in the next Parliament, to respond to the conclusions we have drawn and to follow the recommendations we have all agreed on, in order to correct the incomes that remain and those that are still to be charged, in particular those that the PSD and the CDS in the previous Government have established, with the extension of the prices guaranteed to wind producers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u87	To correct these distortions, so that we can respond to those living in energy poverty and lower the electric bill, so that we can say that in this economy there is justice and no privilege, we must have the courage to make the legislative changes — yes, legislative amendments — that allow these incomes to be corrected and brought to reasonableness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u88	Have you done anything yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u89	... ending the scandal of the stratospheric remuneration and profitability rates that exist today in the electric sector. If the measures we have adopted, Mr. Members of the Socialist Party — and of the Communist Party, but I believe that we have a greater agreement here — if the recommendations we have adopted are effectively put into practice, what we can have is the recovery of more than 750 million euros that have been unduly paid in the past, and we agree that they have been unduly paid by consumers. If the recommendations we have adopted are effectively taken into account and the necessary legislative amendments are made, we can avoid EUR 200 million per year of future costs in tariffs, which are also undue, and we agree that they are undue. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the thorough work that we have done, and that we have done well, while we have questioned the people who have been through the Committee of Inquiry, while we have heard their statements, and all parties have made a valid contribution to the realization of the facts, this work, unfortunately at the final moment, has seen the PSD and the CDS, to repeat, in their words, the accusations that EDP made in public communications to bias, to the lack of rigour, to the political agenda, to the obsessions of the rapporteur. All EDP bricks were repeated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u90	Everyone from the same place!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u91	... each word, by the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u92	Bring the University of Cambridge study!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u93	We know that we do not count on you, but it is the mandate of the parliamentary groups that have committed themselves to the conclusions and recommendations of this report, to give them practical follow-up to correct the excessive revenues that are in the invoice today, which are being charged to consumers and which will be charged if we still do nothing to avoid them.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u94	And what did they do? Oh, my God! It's just blah, blah, blah. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u95	That is the challenge that remains, the challenge of democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u96	I'm still waiting for the Cambridge University study!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u97	We have become more transparent, Parliament is now more prepared to respond, we know what has been done and the mistakes made, we know that the existence of the regulator and the existence of knowledge in the regulator of the distortions of the system does not give it the strength to correct them, does not give it the strength to push governments towards that correction. What we saw was silence, obscurity in the act of regulators and therefore these undue incomes were accumulated over the years. Today we know that and we can correct it. Today we know that consumers are paying what they should not and we can correct. And if companies continue to have stratospheric profitability rates, then it is necessary to correct these profitability rates and it is necessary for the legislator to assume its function and change the laws that need to change to have a fairer electrical system and economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u98	After what I heard today about the House of the Douro, nothing scares me!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u99	It is not fighting renewables, it is not harming external investment. Only one country that respects and is capable of facing the private economy to impose public interest is that it is in a position to respond to its citizens and to create laws that respond to that public interest. The challenge here today, therefore, for the Members who have adopted this report, is that in the next Parliament we are all able to follow up our commitment and transform the recommendations we have agreed together into a political decision. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u100	Oh, it's only in the next legislature! ...I thought they had already agreed!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u101	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the conclusion of the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers. We have moved on to the debate of the Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Consequences and Political Responsibilities of Military Material Stealing in Tanks. Mr President of the Commission, Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With an understanding of the situation, the country had received, at the end of June 2017, the news that an infrastructure in charge of those to whom the Constitution entrusts the military defense of the Republic had disappeared relevant material there. A venerable institution thus proved to be surprisingly vulnerable in the eyes of all. And it was also, between the astonishment and unbelief, that the country was receiving, through the media, increasingly detailed reports of the conditions of vulnerability in which, after all, the material deposited in Tanks was found, from the video surveillance cameras that were not watching until the rounds at its perimeter, made at such intervals, among themselves, that did them little more than useless, as the subtraction of the material, unfortunately, demonstrated. There has been more than suspected, evidence of crime, the investigation, by the judicial authorities, to determine responsibilities was promptly opened. Without prejudice to that, the Assembly of the Republic intended to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry through Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 304 / 2018, with the aim of ascertaining the facts directly or indirectly related to the theft of weapons in Tanks, as well as the political responsibilities arising there. Having the parliamentary rules stated that your presidency would be the responsibility of the parliamentary group that I belong to, my peers have understood to honor me with this indication, knowing in advance that I would seek to assume the position with the exemption and the rigour that the Constitution and the law expect from it. I trust I did. Others, not me, will judge better if I succeed. On the report approved by the Commission, expressly providing for the law to be used in this debate by Mr Rapporteur, it will be understood that it will be left to you. I should like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen, first of all, for being fair and fair. Members who have joined the Commission, registering how, over half a hundred sessions, they have been able to express their convergences and divergences widely. Parliament is worthy of your performance and I am grateful for your inexhaustible understanding and cooperation in the conduct of the work. A word of appreciation and recognition is also required for the seconded officials to support the Commission. Their continued availability and non-observance of hours, their proven competence and dedication make them precisely believers of our appreciation and to us witnesses of their merit and professionalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u103	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u104	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as I mentioned earlier, this ICC was constituted pending a criminal case instituted by the same facts that gave rise to it, providing for the law, in such cases, the possibility of suspension of the parliamentary investigation until the transit in court of the relevant court judgment. If we have not seen such deliberation—and we are, predictably, still years of transit under trial, whose accusation, to exist, has not even been made—, they have not ceased to put relevant questions about the inopibility, or not, of the so-called secret of justice before a ICC. While it is certain that on similar issues the Advisory Council of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic had already decided, they would, however, be redoubled, when an investigation holder openly comes to the fore, questioning everything that would reflect on the constitutional forecast and legal density of the ICCs. The informed intervention by the Attorney-General of the Republic — who registers and praises — will certainly have avoided, in this case, the most important institutional incident, but the convenience of a better explanation of how the duty of co-adjudication between a ICC and the judicial authorities should continue and I believe that Parliament should be given the best legal attention. In substance, it will be a question of transposing to the letter of the law what the above-mentioned opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic had already clarified, when, quoting an arrest of the Constitutional Court, he wrote, and I quote, «the duty of co-judgment which imposes on the Government and the courts can only be legitimately observed, in exceptional cases, when the body to which the co-adjudgment is requested unequivocally proves that the sending of a particular document would prevent the performance of the functions that are constitutionally assigned to him or would involve the violation of fundamental rights. Do not keep on seeking. ” All that, however, is due to the representative assembly of all Portuguese citizens to require the parliamentary committees of inquiry to be set up in the future. A final word is imposed on the Army. It has been the permanent concern of the President of this Commission to preserve the image of an institution to which the country owes much and which is not confused with any shortcomings imputable to those who, together, have served it or serve it. The « smurf in the stomach» — to quote the expressive image used by the former Chief of the Armed Forces Staff, General Pinto Monteiro — that the theft of Tanks constituted for the military institution cannot therefore be confused with any labyrinth of improbity or demerit, which is not justified and which the Army does not deserve. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The time cannot be reversed, nor the mistakes already made. May the reverse suffered in Tanks thus serve as a pledge of its irrepeability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u105	The rapporteur of the Commission, Mr Ricardo Bexiga, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliamentary investigations, as you know, are responsible for monitoring compliance with the Constitution and the laws and for assessing the acts of the Government and of the Administration. The Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of the theft of material in Tankos was established to identify and evaluate the facts, acts and omissions of the XXI Constitutional Government related, directly or indirectly, to the theft of weapons in Tankos, in the period between June 2017 and the present, as well as to ascertain the political responsibilities arising there. In six months of work and during 26 hearings and consultation of more than 700 documents, the members of the Committee of Inquiry sought to find out how the theft of the National Tank Countries could happen and how the recovery of stolen material subsequently took place. In seeking to synthesize all the facts established by the Commission, we intend to integrate in the report a set of 86 conclusions which enable us to understand what happened in Tankos, and then how the recovery operation of stolen material was prepared and carried out on 18 October 2017. It is true that we do not answer the questions that have arisen in many of us, about whom, when, why, and how the theft of Tanks was executed. However, that was not the Commission's mission, because this is the subject of criminal investigation, criminal investigation which is under way and in secret of justice. But by examining the conclusions of the report, we have the very clear idea of the facts and circumstances that allowed that theft and the facts and circumstances that gave rise to the subsequent finding of stolen material. I can't help but highlight the cooperation of the honourable Members. Members of all parliamentary groups who participated in the Committee of Inquiry, not only because of the dedicated, committed and wise work in the course of the work, but also because of how they contributed to the final drafting of the report. As a whole, 161 amendments were tabled to the preliminary draft report, of which 98 amendments were included in the final text. This reflects the effort made to ensure that the report was the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry rather than the rapporteur. We have also included in the report the presentation of 24 recommendations which aim to underpin Parliament's contributions so that the events in the National Tank Countries will not happen again. After the actual diagnosis, in the conclusions of the report, we sought to point out the way for the various competent authorities to find, as soon as possible, the appropriate solutions to correct what has failed in Tankos. And in Tancos, unfortunately, much has failed: the military hierarchy has failed—and not only the captain, the sergeant and the square, who have been punished with minor penalties in the light of the Military Discipline Regulation ; the communication, cooperation and pro-activity between the various organizations integrated into the State Internal Security System ; in the Military Judicial Police ( PJM ), then the Directorate in office acted against applicable regulatory and legal rules and against superior decisions of the Attorney-General of the Republic, setting up an operation with a view to recovering stolen material, but no longer worrying about the arrest of criminals, questioning the good name of this prestigious institution. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the objective of this Commission was to determine the political responsibilities for the events in Tanks. in the final report it turns out that the Government, through the then Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister, had only known the facts a posteriori: both of theft and of the finding of stolen material. As soon as they were aware of the facts, the Government immediately ordered, by order of the Minister of Defence, the urgent investigation of the facts and the clearance of their responsibilities, the result of which is found in the document Tanks 2017 — Facts and Documents. As soon as the government became aware of the facts relating to the finding of material, criminal investigation was already under way, with a view to ascertaining the perpetrators of the theft and the subsequent events. Now, having examined the facts established by the Commission, examined in detail the documents delivered, verified the statements of the various personalities who answered the questions of the members of the Commission, we concluded that no concrete factuality was found enough to attribute political responsibilities to the members of the XXI Constitutional Government. The legacy that this report intends to leave for the future is the essential basis for a courageous and determined intervention of a process of change that will allow the events that have taken place in Tanks no longer to happen. I therefore conclude my speech with certainty: this Committee of Inquiry has fulfilled its mission and has distinguished the role of the Assembly of the Republic in its last functions as guarantor of the legality and compliance of the Constitution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u107	Let us now enter the debate. Mr Berta Cabral of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, having completed the task of the Parliamentary Committee on Tanks, it is important to say that the PSD has been in this Commission since the first hour with the aim of constructively contributing to the development of political responsibilities in the area of national security and exposed the fragility of communication between the various State services which must ensure that security.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u110	It is also worth pointing out that, in view of the impact the theft had on the Armed Forces, we have always had the concern to preserve the image and prestige of this institution which, for us, is considered fundamental for the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u111	The final report of the Parliamentary Tank Inquiry Commission, approved by the PS and the left parties, reflects an incomplete and partial view of what happened during the work of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u112	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u113	The PS sought to attribute the blame to the Army and the Military Judicial Police, whitening the performance of political leaders, notably the former Minister of National Defence and Prime Minister António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u115	For us, neither the Army nor the Military Judicial Police should be called into question, as institutions, because we cannot take the whole or confuse individual errors with the performance of the collective. [[PSD applause.]] It was also clear that the PS, the Left Block and the CFP sought to dilute political responsibilities by extending the scope of the Commission to previous governments, but soon it was found that there was no past political responsibility. In fact, the current government was the only one who knew of the situation in which the National Tank Countries were and it was with this government that the theft happened — it is a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has put forward more than half a hundred proposals to improve some aspects of the report, so as to comply with it, as far as possible, with the various hearings and the documentation presented. If it is true that some of our proposals have been incorporated, others, by way of the most relevant ones, have ended up not staying in the final report, a manifest political option of the parties that support the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u119	For us, it is not possible to say with complete certainty that there were no political pressures on the operation of the Military Judicial Police and Army, particularly on General Rovisco Duarte. Nor can we deal with the fact that a report, approved by the majority that supports the Government, has already seen to whiten the performance of former Minister Azeredo Lopes and Prime Minister António Costa, when they made contradictory statements about how and when they were aware of the content of the memorandum delivered by the Director of the Military Judicial Police and Major Vasco Brazão to the Chief of Staff of the Minister of National Defence on 20 October 2017, a fundamental piece in all this process. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u120	The former Minister of National Defence Azeredo Lopes has since learned that since 20 October 2017 the investigation that the Military Judicial Police was doing was a parallel investigation and also learned about the operation staged for the recovery of stolen material in Tancos, either through the content of this document I referred to, or through the telephone call of the Attorney General of the Republic Joana Marques Vidal.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u122	Nor can one affirm with complete certainty, as the report does, that the Prime Minister only had knowledge of the performance of the Military Judicial Police on October 12, 2018, i.e. one year later: firstly, because there are different statements by the Prime Minister on this matter; secondly, because it is not normal for a Minister to omit, for a year, information with this importance and gravity; thirdly, because it is not acceptable for the Prime Minister to have never questioned the Minister of National Defence about the tank process, during that year that occurred between the document and the resignation of the Minister. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, it is completely incomprehensible for us that a Commission which aimed to find the political responsibilities in the theft in Tankos concludes that they did not exist when the Defence Minister and the Chief of the Higher State of the time resigned exactly following that process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u124	I ask: if this is not political consequences, then what is this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u125	All right! [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u126	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u127	I would say, "It is the elephant in the middle of the process". Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese hoped and deserved to see the political responsibilities of the event in Tanks in fact, but with this report, approved by the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, there remain more doubts than assurances about the action of the Portuguese rulers in this case. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u128	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group withdraws a number of reports from the Tanks Commission, many of which are reflected in the approved Report itself. It was thus confirmed what the Left Block said at the time of the theft of Tanks: there was a serious failure in one of the central functions of the State — the defence — and the consequences could have been of enormous gravity. Through the various hearings that took place, Parliament and the country were aware of the deplorable state of degradation, over a number of years and several governments, in which one of the infrastructures with high military sensitivity in terms of security: the National Tank Countries. There were reports, standards and inspections, where the problems were diagnosed, but who had the responsibility to decide and act did nothing, not considering these priority gaps and problems. Some superior leaders, particularly within the Army and the Military Judicial Police, did not act as they competed, using inadequate rules and procedures, failed in supervision, rivaled each other and even acted in violation of their own law. You are, in this case, the Military Judicial Police itself. The report and in particular its conclusions and recommendations were well-knownly enriched by the numerous contributions made by the Left Block. The Left Block Parliamentary Group notes as significant the fact that on its proposal the Committee of Inquiry found that the political power, particularly during the implementation of Portugal 2020, by the PSD/CDS Government, had collaborated, i.e. to have been responsible, alongside the military power, for the situation that occurred in Tanks, since the determination was to give priority to investments in the operational component, without prejudice to the fixed component, which was reflected in the degradation of the National Tank Countries. It is also worth pointing out another proposal, submitted by the Bloc and approved, concerning the fact that the former Minister of Defence had done nothing to clarify the situation, as he was competing with it, as soon as he became aware of the information transmitted by the Attorney General of the Republic on the illegal action carried out by the Military Judicial Police. The Left Block regrets that a proposal of itss, concerning the case of the Military College, in which students were discriminated against on the basis of their sexual orientation, and the situation of investigation into the deaths of instructors who took place in the training of Commands, which strengthened the challenge, existing in the upper structure of the Army, to the Chief of the Army's Major State and to the Minister himself. In some auditions, there was an attempt to whiten out what happened at the Military College for some time, which the Left Block could never allow. In the field of recommendations, it would be desirable to have approved the strengthening of internal democracy at the level of the army and other branches structures, including at the level of the heads, updating and modernizing standards and processes that are out of date and taking into account the principles of the Constitution itself. I give only two examples of what I have just mentioned: the de-upduation and rigidity of the Rules of Procedure — Guide of the Military College Student, referred to by a number of specialists ; and the inadequacy of the Command Course Reference, confirmed by the Army General Inspection. Let us hope that these rules have been properly amended. Another recommendation of the Unapproved Left Block was that the Government should consider the extinction of the Military Judicial Police, passing all its powers to the height of the Judicial Police. This is not a new recommendation from the Left Block. Although such a recommendation had been rejected by the Commission of Inquiry, more entities have already thought or thought the same way as the Block, especially for the former Attorney General of the Republic. Until the current Prime Minister, when he was Minister of Justice of Antonio Guterres, between 1999 and 2002, defended the end of the PJM, through his merger with the Judicial Police. Also the government of José Socrates came to equate in 2006 this merger, although unsuccessful, given the opposition of the military leaders. The PSD and the CDS certainly wanted another report, they wanted other conclusions and recommendations to cover their political cabala thesis, since the devil never arrived again. What the Left Block Parliamentary Group hopes is that this report and, in particular, its conclusions and recommendations will serve to ensure that there will never again be an event in the country like what happened in Tanks. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u130	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Diogo León.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, whose presidency of the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry was at all times of exemplary verticality and performance, and I would also like to thank the honourable Members. Vice-President José de Matos Rosa and João Vasconcelos. [[PSD applause.]] I would also like to refer to the rapporteur, Mr Bexiga, for the implementation of the final report presented, for the intellectual honesty and for the democratic openness he has revealed, by considering introducing almost 100 amendments. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] But since the Socialist Party will not respond to the insinuations left here by the PSD, let us take the following facts: it is a de-investment over more than two decades in the National Tank Countries by the Army and indirectly by successive governments ; the breakdown of the control unit principle in the management and safety of these installations; Various vulnerabilities exist, highlighting the degradation of seals and alarm and video surveillance systems, both totally obsolete; Verification of serious deficiencies in the military duty of the personnel in charge of security at the time of theft; There have been systematic lacks of information throughout the army, for years, on the actual discredit of the security of the Tank Countries ; It was also proved by this government that, at the request of the former CEME ( ex-Chief of the Army's Major State ), it gave the necessary means to initiate the correction of the country's vulnerabilities before the theft occurred, PSD and CDS quickly ceased to be interested in the theft of military material, recognizing that therefore they could not even attempt the involvement of the Government, unless they insisted on the idea that Mr. Prime Minister was the Commander of the Engineering Regiment No 1 and Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u132	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u133	Since this idea was not credible, they went on to the thesis that the government would be involved in the cover-up operation carried out illegally by the Military Judicial Police. Nothing more false, as the facts have proved. We set up this Commission of Inquiry in October 2018, a Commission proposed by the CDS in this same Plenary. The Socialist Party, on behalf of the truth of the facts, voted in favour of the constitution of this Commission. And from there, it resulted in a solid, independent and rigorous work in the analysis of hundreds of documents and dozens of individual hearings. The CDS claimed that Parliament should ascertain, and I quote, 'who failed in the security measures and why the security measures failed'. The Commission has opened. The CDS claimed the constitution of a Commission for it to be achieved, and I quote, 'answers about what failed, why it failed and because of who's responsibility'. The Commission has opened. The CDS claimed a Commission to allow a « reflection and evaluation on the functioning of the Ministry of National Defence, as well as the forms of linkage between the Armed Forces and the various security forces and services and criminal police bodies ». The Commission has reflected, produced and adopted a set of conclusions and recommendations in this regard. But let me quote the CDS Parliamentary Group in two other brief excerpts from the explanatory statement of the initiative that led to the constitution of the Commission. The first, and I quote, says the following: « The government sought, in the first stage, to devalue the success, then claimed ignorance and finally tried to quickly close the problem». The second indent states: « The denials, omissions and contradictions of the facts practised by the Government during this process have been constant and systematic ». The only thing this Committee of Inquiry did not open was these authentic conclusions that the CDS and the PSD, first of all, constituted the Commission of Inquiry, wanted to impose as a matter of fact achieved and acquired. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the fact is that in the report, in the conclusions on government responsibilities, it was established and proved that no political interference occurred in the action of the Army or in the activity of the Military Judicial Police related to the events of Tanks. The same was clear as regards the interaction of political power with justice and criminal investigation, including a strategy for research and a conscious choice of justice, not to call on the Government to open disciplinary actions to military elements linked to the operation to cover up the recovery of military material, allowing the advance of the operation Hibris. The principle of separation and interdependence of powers was fully respected by the Government. Mr President, our last word is precisely for the Armed Forces. What happened in Tanks was undoubtedly a failure of enormous gravity in the security of the state, but we know that the Army and the Armed Forces in general are today, more than ever, working for the security of their infrastructures. And it is not a reduced core of military with desecrating conducts — other certainly irregular and even illegal and which are currently under investigation and justice — which diminishes the prestige of a multi-sectoral institution such as the Portuguese Army. Today a chapter is closed with the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry. We hope that there will also be a certain vertigo for the « case policy », sponsored by the PSD and the CDS, and that in its voracity it has not even saved our Armed Forces. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u134	Impressive! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u135	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would begin by saying that the Socialist Party ends exactly where it began and where it has always been: to close, to close, to close, to close, if possible, to stop talking about Tanks! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But that is not the case, Mr President. Firstly, it is not to close and, secondly, I wanted to say the following: we did not prestigious the Armed Forces, nor the Army, nor such important institutions, hiding, omitting and diluting what are obvious and obvious responsibilities. It's not like that! He said — and he started there — that there were preconceived conclusions. Do you want me to talk to you about preconceived conclusions? The Socialist Party, the Committee of Inquiry had not yet started its work, said: "There are no political responsibilities". The Socialist Party, which concluded the work of the Committee of Inquiry, says : « There are no political responsibilities ». That is, if anyone has preconceived conclusions on this matter, it is obviously the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u137	contrary to what the rapporteur said here, this is not the report of Parliament or of the Commission. We voted against, PSD voted against! This report constitutes the defence claims of the Government and the Socialist Party. It is indeed in view of this that we are here and today in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u139	The report has a very clear orientation, i.e. assigning responsibilities to the military, assigning responsibilities to the PJM, diluting, bleaching, washing as much as possible — it is not Omo, as Mr Ascenso Simões said, is the biggest bleacher this country knows, which is the so-called'management machine' —, all political responsibilities. The only thing that has political responsibilities is what has been said here and which is consensual: there has been a failure to invest several governments. Investment failure on both sides. All right, that's consensual. The failure of military complaints is also consensual, but then we came to what was regrettable and that, in my opinion, it was a shame, i.e., a former Chief of the Staff to assign personal responsibilities to general tenants, when they resigned for ethical reasons and precisely because they did not agree with the attempt to hide Tanks. To this lieutenant general, and I mean, obviously, to General Rovisco Duarte, former Chief of the Staff, only a compliment on the part of the PS was missing, when his attitude was regrettable. And you, most of them, have prevented the general tenants from coming here to defend their military honour. That was regrettable! [[Protests by PS Diogo Leo.]] I would also like to tell you that, in our view, the centre of this report — and there was the heart of our proposals — are political responsibilities. And let's get to the facts, just the facts! What do we know? We know that the Military Judicial Police, led by Colonel Luís Vieira, had an act that the Report tries to diminish and that, only after our insistence, it clearly classifies as having been an illegal, unacceptable act with a parallel process, with difficulties that could not have been done. So we know this clearly and there is no doubt. The second fact that we know, and which is of the greatest relevance, is that this stage was not a finding, Mr rapporteur, because no one has stumbled in the grenades, yes, it is a scene! — was reported to the Government two days after it happened, I repeat, two days later. It took place on 18 October and on 20 October, Colonel Luís Vieira and Major Vasco Brazão entered the office of Mr. Chief of Staff of the Minister of National Defence Azeredo Lopes at that time and delivered a document, which I hold, which is the central document of this Committee of Inquiry and this investigation, and which says things like: « agreement », word referred to three times, and « contract ». Agreement and contract with whom? With the informers and, of course, with the attackers, because there can be no return of weapons or agreement unless it is with whom you stole, as is evident. More: deal under threat! Threat, if PJ had interference in the process, to Major Vasco Brazão's family. There was a life-threatening risk to his family if he knew of this agreement! The threats are there, just read them!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u140	at that time, the criminal investigation was already under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u141	Just read it! Therefore, two days later, the Chief of Staff was aware that there was an illegal and criminal act by an institution under the protection of the Minister. Mr President, the Minister was informed and told us, in the Commission, that he was aware of the essentials of this situation, I repeat, that he was aware of the essentials.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u142	And the PJ didn't know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u143	The question that arises is clear: if you have known the essentials, why is it that the Minister, when he came to Parliament and was questioned in the Defence Committee, never said so, omitting him always? Oh, my God! Why did you hide it from the Defense Commission? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u144	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u145	Why, when he was heard in Brussels a few days later, did the Minister tell the media that he never heard of the stagnation? Oh, my God! The Minister heard, the Prime Minister also knew, and also omitted. He omitted Mr Fernando Negrão and omitted the communication. Therefore, you were not even able to recognize and assume the political responsibilities of those who resigned.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u146	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u147	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. If it weren't for the Judicial Police, still today Colonel Luís Vieira would be PJM director and probably still today Minister Azeredo Lopes would be in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u148	I'm quitting now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the story of a robbery and three scenes. If we want a title, it's the following: a robbery and three scenes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u150	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u151	The first stage was the PJM, the second stage was the government, which omitted, the third stage is this report, which hides the truth. [[PS protests.]] Let's see, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is not with the inquiry that we will be aware of everything that may have been lacking to know in this Committee of Inquiry. I have this curiosity, but with the feeling that, perhaps,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u152	Mr. Deputy, finish, if you don't mind!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u153	...the investigation and the prosecution will show what we don't know now. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm done. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Berta Cabral.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u154	We have concluded the debate on the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the political consequences and responsibilities of the theft of military material in Tanks with the intervention of Mr Jorge Machado of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first consideration of the CFP's Parliamentary Group is thanks. Thanks to the services of support to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, officials and advisers, which had a fundamental work for the success of this Commission. It was long working sessions, transcriptions were made in record time, it was all the support given to the Commission, so first of all it is important to welcome the workers of the Assembly of the Republic, the advisors, all of them ladies, who supported us in this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. I just meant it. I give a word to the President of the Commission, in the exemplary manner in which he led the work and, to conclude his thanks, I also give a word to the Rapporteur. The work was not easy and we note as positive the opening up of the Rapporteur to accept a large part of the proposals from different parliamentary groups. Not only were all the proposals accepted by the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, but many were also the proposals of the other banks that were accepted. There was therefore an effort to consensualize the document, which is only not consensual by political agenda, as has been demonstrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u157	The final version of the report is based on facts, it does a courageous and rigorous analysis and produces a set of recommendations and conclusions that we have valued. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can divide the report, conclusions and recommendations into three moments. First, the moment before the theft, in which an analysis is made of what actually went wrong, hurrying up — yes! — political responsibilities and the structure of the Army in the degradation of the Army and in the management of its priorities. For us, it became clear, it became clear, that the option of the Government and the top structure of the Army has always been to give priority to the national forces highlighted to NATO missions ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), with damage to the fixed component and security missions. In our view, this has been demonstrated and it is important to value it. Then we have the moment of theft itself, on which we also collect a valuable set of information, which will be a contribution to the ongoing criminal investigation. Finally, we have the moment after the theft, when political management has been analyzed, both by the hierarchy and by the government. contrary to what is said by the PSD, and it has now been said by Telmo Correia of the CDS, that there is no exercise in the report to release the Government of its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u158	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u159	It is said in a clear and taxative manner that the former Minister of Defence has devalued a document which has been handed over to him. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not by any chance that this minister himself resigned. In our view, he resigned because he made this mistake of devaluing the document that was delivered to him.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u160	Sure! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u161	There were errors in political management by the army hierarchy. Responsible only one square, one sergeant and one officer was a mistake! No lieutenant general assumed his responsibilities and the government did not take any action...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u162	They've devalued!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u163	...to make these general tenants responsible for what happened. And this is also clear in the report of this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, only do not read those who do not want to read! The Report is responsible for successive governments for the degradation of the operational conditions of the Army and its infrastructures, but it is necessary to carry out a serious exercise of the analysis of the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission. Did the government know about the structural problems of Tanks? In fact, I can even question whether the successive governments knew about the structural problems of Tanks! They didn't know. The top structure of the Army pushed the problem with the belly and did not communicate it to the political decision makers. Did the government previously know of the illegal operation mounted by the PJM to recover the war material? Don't! There is no record of this, and for many times Mr Telmo Correia is trying to give, there is no evidence that makes it possible to say so. Mr Telmo Correia said that the document had been handed over to the Government « two days after it had happened ». And then? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u164	The government hasn't done anything for a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u165	Two days after the incident, the Public Prosecutor already knew of the illegal operation under way, as long as the PJ knew of the illegal operation under way, the government had an obligation to let justice work.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u167	It does not compete with the government to act, as it is obvious. The government had heard of the illegal illegal operation of military material recovery before it took place and there would be problems of political responsibility. This did not happen and, strictly speaking, intellectually, there is no fact that would allow it to withdraw that same conclusion. Could the government somehow have avoided the actual theft? Don't! Were there political responsibilities not exactly stolen? That, strictly speaking, we cannot assume. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] In fact, it was agreed, and I quote the Report, that "it has not been proved that at some point any political interference has occurred in the action of the Army and in the activity of the PJM". We agree with this quote. The Commission of Inquiry in the case of Tankos did not assume political responsibilities in the theft of military material itself, but made clear the political and military responsibilities in the degradation of the Army. They are substantially different things, but this has been demonstrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u168	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, we would like to point out that this Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry is essentially a set of recommendations that should be important in the analysis and future work. Let us take a lesson and withdraw the illusions of this process from the conclusions of this report so that what has happened will not happen again in the future. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u170	We then move on to the fourth point of our agenda, with the general discussion of the Bill No 203 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the land structure regime. To begin the debate, with the presentation of the legislative initiative of the Government, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor. But first, I'm asking the gentlemen. Members who need to withdraw quickly, because this background noise does not help at all. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that we are now going to discuss is another diploma inserted into the broad context of forest reform, which we have been implementing since 2016, and which joins several tens of others, already approved and in implementation, with a view to responding to the fundamental question that lies in the future of our forest, which is its planning and, above all, its management, key pieces so that, within 20 to 25 years, we have a more adapted forest mosaic, more resilient, with greater value creation and with a more relevant contribution to the environment and to mitigating the effects of climate change. This is an amendment to Law No 111 / 2015 of 27 August 2015 establishing the legal regime of the land structure, by which it is intended: to avoid the continuation of the fractionation of the buildings; to introduce more tax exemptions and more tax and emoluments exemptions; to simplify and expedite procedures; and to make the penalties resulting from the counter-orders more fair. After, in January of this year, we have established, by port, the minimum culture unit for rustic buildings of irrigation, drought and forest, which varies between the 2, 5 ha and the 48 ha, according to the regions, to avoid the continuation of the fractionation of buildings, we now propose to prevent the use of the Uscapion regime for premiums whose size is below this minimum threshold. We also intend to avoid the continuation of fractionation by simplifying procedures, proposing that all buildings for which it is difficult to define their vocation or potential use be presumed to be dry. In order to introduce more tax exemptions, taxes and emoluments, we intend to extend the exemption of IMT (municipal tax on the expensive transmission of buildings) and seal tax (IS) to the acquisitions of contiguous buildings, which was already applied only to the neighbouring countries. So, we have a building, we have the boundary, and the contiguous is what is immediately following. These benefits are extended to facilitate the annexation. The exemption from IMI (municipal property tax) for 10 years is also extended to these types of operations and the procedures for attaching rustic buildings are also exempted from any fees or emoluments. To simplify, we propose to exempt certain requirements, such as the binding opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, only to be required the opinion of the respective municipality, and, as soon as a building is free of IMI or seal tax, it is immediately also free of IMT. Finally, we propose to make more fair the penalties resulting from counter-ordinations, establishing differentiated values whether they are legal or natural persons. It is an apparent small change, but it brings a set of benefits and, I am sure, it will compete for the great objective that we have, which is to have a forest and, in addition to the identification of the heritage, have a dimension of heritage that enables professional management and responsible for the Portuguese forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u172	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u173	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The extreme fragmentation of rural plots has difficulty, when not even impossible, their active management in a cost-effective way. it results in losses often only surpassed by investments from other income outside the agricultural holding, considered as subsidiary activity. They are unsustainable situations that only lead to the abandonment of the active management of the land or its delivery to the row of the eucalyptus and to the interests of the celluloses. We therefore recognise that the problem of the scale of management of rural areas needs to be solved. One of the ways to increase this scale is through the creation of forest management units, where small owners join together to manage their small plots together and in a cost-effective way. Another way, the underlying to this bill, is through voluntary sharing. It is an option to be taken into account and which, in fact, as proposed here, should be more stimulated. In particular, this bill aims at changes that appear positive to us, such as strengthening the distinction between lands of irrigation, drought and forest in the determination of crop units. When this definition is not possible, as the Minister has just said, it is chosen, and well, for attributing the category of drought. It is also intended to simplify the process of access to tax exemptions, which will become dependent on a single opinion to be issued by the municipal chamber. However, we believe that simplification should go even further at this point. The parceling operation should be exempt, by declaring the acquirer that he met the conditions and the proof that he had requested such a municipal opinion, a document which may sometimes take months to be issued. The possible collection of IMT and seal tax would be a posteriori, when this municipal opinion was sent to the finance service and, of course, in case it was negative. It would be even easier to parcel without compromising rigor or tax revenue. Finally, we disagree with the fact that there is no limit to the size of the linkage for access to incentives that are being created by the government's office. It makes sense that in order to obtain incentives, rural sharing must reach the minimum culture unit as proposed in Article 53. the, but no longer makes any sense to the government being investing money from the State budget, eventually, in the concentration of media or large properties, since no maximum limits of parceled property are placed for access to incentives. I would remind you, for example, that the Minister will remember — the PAR credit line (rural lease financing programme), which was opened until 2005 and which imposes a maximum ceiling to access it. In the case of the PAR credit, which is still open on the ICNF page, group farming would only have access to funding if it did not explore in common area that exceeded 10 times the economically viable family farm area, including the one to be financed. It is precisely a maximum ceiling of the area resulting from the parceling which must also be introduced in this proposal for a law for access to incentives, because it is not there.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u174	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u175	I will finish, Mr. President. This omission, to be maintained, allows the State budget to come to finance the concentration of great property, which in no case is justified nor should it happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u176	The floor is now for an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria da Luz Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u177	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we appreciate the proposal for a Law on the Land Structure Scheme, which is the first amendment to Law No 111 / 2015 of 27 August. Its objective is to create better conditions for forest reform and agricultural activity, like other regulations that converge for the development of the primary sector, so important in the national economic context. This important legislative initiative simplifies the procedure for the allocation of tax exemptions, which will be carried out under a single opinion by the territorially competent municipality, and extends the exemption either from the seal tax to credit operations, with a view to facilitating access to finance, or municipal property tax, with the particularity of facilitating the annexation, some transmission operations, acquisition or exchange of rustic buildings. This is a proposal for a law of the Government, which is set out in Article 93. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which concerns agricultural policy, with the potential to give greater effectiveness to the culture unit and to strengthen the instruments of fundraising, already listed in Law No 111 / 2015. They are: rural parcelation; land valuation; fractionation of rustic buildings; intermunicipal and municipal territorial plans. These instruments aim to create better conditions for the development of agricultural and forestry activities in a manner compatible with their sustainable management in the economic, social and environmental fields, through intervention in the configuration, dimension, quantification and productive use of plots and rustic buildings. Strictly speaking, the development of the rural round world is to give the local authorities a privileged role in the planning and management of the territory, in line with the land structure. After all, your knowledge of the territory and proximity gives you this faculty. The authorities are thus and now more involved and are called upon to integrate decision-making into some fundamental instruments, and therefore they have, and well, responsibilities in the approval of projects. The proposed law also aims to strengthen the dissuasive character of non-compliance, providing for the amendment of the sanction scheme, through fines that vary depending on the offender, whether he is a natural person or a legal person. Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In the view of the Socialist Party, we are faced with an important bill, which has, as a horizon, the promotion of the economic situation of those who work the land, improvements in the fundamental structure of property, the valorization of agricultural activity, forest reform and rural space and, ultimately, Minister, the prevention of rural fires, so the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the diploma in appreciation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u178	The floor is now for an intervention on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u179	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. The legal regime of the land structure referred to in the proposed law is fundamental and structural. It was approved in 2015 by an extended consensus of this House : the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS voted in favour, having the Left Block and the PCP left out of this solution so important for a harmonious development, for a better use of the interior of our territory and its potential, even as a form of economic development and attractiveness to fix populations and thus create economic activity. That said, we are talking about surgical changes. Mr Minister, I am sorry, but let me tell you that it was with some pity, I would say with almost surprise that I heard you justifying this change in the reform of the forest. Mr President, this has confirmed what the PSD has been saying for so long: the Minister does not want to know about agriculture, he has completely forgotten agricultural activity and, indeed, during his presentation, only talked about the forest. [[PS protests.]] This regime is important not only for the forest, but for the whole sector, for the whole territory. The PSD has some reservations with regard to this proposed scheme, particularly in the part in which it deals with fines, because, when what we want is a policy of both companies and young people and individuals in particularly depressed areas, we simply see what happened in fire-affected areas, where it has been very difficult to attract investments, to attract new holdings, we seriously ask ourselves whether this increase, this boost of fines is an attractive factor for these investments to be made in these territories that need this parity. Deep down, that is what we are talking about and which the PSD considers essential. Of course, we are in favour either of parceling, or of tax exemptions, which, yes, are in accordance with the need of the sector, agriculture and forests, for the development of the territories. We are in favour of these exemptions, we are in favour of facilitating the issue of opinions, so that it is now simpler, and IMT exemption. Let me also tell you, Minister, that we have concerns about this automatic classification of land for drought, when there is no opinion, because this may not be in agreement with much of our territory, and let us just think, in particular, of my region, which is the Mininho. Most of the territory is not dry, so we are also concerned about this automatic classification. However, because this diploma, which has been in force for three years, is important as well as the amendments that will be made, we hope that these concerns will be taken into account in particular. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u180	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u181	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. Mr Minister, this bill is changing the legal regime of land structures. They are indeed surgical amendments, they have positive aspects, but they also raise some reservations that I would like to see clarified, if possible. The legal regime of land structure resulted in a wide review process of the various territorial management instruments carried out by the PSD/CDS Government. I welcome the extension of the exemption of IMI for 10 years to buildings resulting from pairing, annexing or when they no longer belong to the property and the exemption of the seal tax in credit operations and interest for the acquisition of the pairing operations. These incentives are extended, which is also positive, to simple parceling, when they were not previously, were only driven by integral parceling. I would like to raise two questions. On the one hand, the establishment of incentives is no longer explicit if the owners are over 65 years old or when the buildings are sold to the land reserve, referring to subsequent regulation by the Government. I would like to ask whether it is in fact the idea of the Government to maintain this benefit to people over 65 years of age, as an incentive, in substance, to land transfer and to parity. The second question has already been clarified by the Minister and I am concerned because it was something I had and now is a confirmation. Article 51. it does not, in fact, require the opinion of the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Fisheries. If it could possibly make no sense in the parceling operations, because it is being added and the junction contributes to improving the ground structure, an opinion of the Regional Directorate, because it will always improve the ground structure, the same is no longer true when this opinion refers to justification for the fractionation does not lead to inconvenience. Allowing the opinion of the Regional Directorate for Agriculture in these situations, as provided for in this proposal for a law, seems to us to go beyond the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 13 / 2019, because the single opinion does not necessarily have to dispense with the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and not all authorities will certainly have the ability to do so. In addition to this issue of exemptions, which are positive, but on which we have some reservations, we are doubted as to fractionation, since the prohibition set out in Article 48. it seems to us to be much broader and more comprehensive than is envisaged in the Council of Ministers resolution. Why? of the reading we make, it seems to us that citizens are prevented from justifying possession by usscapion when the land is, in any circumstances, less than the unity of culture, and not only when it results from acts of sharing or division of common things, as was foreseen in the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 13 / 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u182	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u183	Finally, Mr President, I should like to say that I would like these matters to be clarified if possible. We regret that this bill, although globally positive, is presented at the end of the legislature. In our perspective, and as the technical note itself points out, there is a lack of opinions and, moreover, this proposal lacks a discussion in the specialty, although we already have very little time to do it. It is therefore unfortunate that we do not have a longer period to analyze this process and make a law as it should be. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u184	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Secretary of State : We are talking today about the legal regime of land-based structures and I begin to point out the few reserves of the PSD and the CDS in relation to the proposal and even some satisfaction with most of the amendments tabled, which makes us even more concerned. I would like, of course, to make it clear that the CFP has always defended parceling, but let me tell you, Minister, it cannot always be at the expense of them, always at the expense of the small and medium-sized owners. We can't penalize the owners. We're not talking about a reform. We remember, Mr Minister, that we have said from the outset that this bill does not in itself constitute the fundamental amendment that was needed to be made. Moreover, this bill is changing the law of parceling, approved by the PSD and the CDS, with the support of the PS, and at the time we made it clear that the regime that the government then called "fundary restructuring" was not really so. The scheme is based solely on parity, with ineffective references to real ownership resizing, in addition to being influenced by the general orientation of government policy for agriculture, which is in the sense of the deprotection of small and medium-sized owners. These are thus at the mercy of the will of the most powerful, because the rustic property will need to parcel the center and the north, while the south the excessive dimension of the property will continue to be a barrier to development. The current government is continuing to move forward with this regime four years ago, without promoting, as should its obligation, parceling on water perimeters, for example. This proposal does not change the background matrix, as I said, and the nature of the problems remains: the exemptions and benefits are extended to the contiguous buildings, in addition to the neighbouring buildings; it is difficult to cover small plots; it is clarified what is meant by 'culture unit'; the exemptions are extended to credit operations and interest arising from them is intended to parcel and acquisition of contiguous buildings; an incentive for parceling operations is provided; the penalties for those who do not comply with the law are aggravated, in particular for those who create difficulties in parcelating. Mr Minister, Article 51. it is undoubtedly to favor the great capital, those who want to acquire land, one behind the other, without even establishing a maximum area of buildings to be acquired. It can be seen that, in the case of a building worth 5000 €, the value of the seal tax is 40 €. It is also noted, Mr Minister, that parceling operations themselves, which often involve costs, are not exempt from IS, but the concentration of property is. We consider Article 55. it is a coercion that threatens and sets up anyone who opposes the powerful ones who want to move forward with the forced pairing in a region. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u186	To close the debate, Mr Capoulas Santos has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to express my joy on behalf of the Government for the very wide reception and support that has just been shown in relation to the diploma on the part of the various parliamentary boards, I would say, including that of the CFP, because I have heard a general criticism, seeking to create an ideological issue where there is no ideology, but I have not heard criticism of any of the measures in particular. It is just a matter of avoiding the fractionation of the properties beyond the minimum unit of culture, which already exists, and facilitating the annexation so that we can have a more profitable and economically manageable rustic property. So that's all, Mr. Deputies. In reply to Mrs PSD, who said that we were looking only at the forest, I must confess that the motivation to introduce these changes was, in fact, the result of the forest and the need to look at the excessive fractionation of forest property. But, obviously, the diploma applies to all rustic property, that is, to agricultural property, whether it is drought or irrigation, and to forest property. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, on the issues you have raised, would like to say that of course we do not intend to draw any support from owners over 65 years old. With regard to the opinions of the regional Directorates, it seems to us that, among the values in question, simplification has weighed more and I do not believe that it is harmful there. Regarding uscapion, you will say that we want to go further, but what we really want is that we do not split property in any way. Therefore, if anyone holds it in his possession, of good faith, and wishes to legalize it below the minimum unit of culture, he must not do so without proposing a junction before he proposes that there be respect for this minimum unit that we have just defined. Finally, Mr Matias' suggestions from the Left Block seem to me to be worth an assessment, despite the short time until the final vote, since the Government is fully available to examine them, in particular the establishment of a maximum value for the allocation of benefits, which Mr João Dias also spoke about. It seems to me a very relevant question and, of course, we are willing to evaluate it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u188	Mr. Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u189	... as well as the issues that the CDS referred, at parliamentary headquarters, with complete good faith. If you can make improvements in your diploma, we are available for that. I just wanted to use the last 30 seconds to address me to the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time I will be here with you, to wish all the greatest future happiness and to thank the way we worked together, both those who criticized us and helped us to improve, both those who supported us, who helped us and encouraged us to do better. Thank you very much to all and I wish you the greatest happiness. [[Congratulations from the PS, from the BE and from the PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u190	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have already been informed, we will leave the fifth item on the agenda for the end of the work. The Under-Secretary of State and Parliamentary Affairs has asked for this to happen and I have rejected this request, given that the reasons are far-reaching. Thus, we are now discussing, in general, the Bill No. 204 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ) — Establishs the legal regime for the regularisation of "Chons of Improvements". The Bureau recorded Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block, for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law that is presented to us by the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores aims to solve a problem of regularization of the so-called "Chãos de Mejoras", an ancestral and unique form of separation between the property of the soil and that of the buildings there implanted. As explained in the Preamble of the diploma, “Chons of Improvements” are concentrated almost all in defined areas, estimated at about 600 people affected. to the Left Block, seems to go in the right direction the solution proposed for the creation of a temporary power right to acquire the property of the soil or buildings in it existing and the establishment of a regime of urban regularization and planning of the territory. The 10-year period for this operation seems acceptable to us. To be approved, and when applied, the owner of the building, understood in its broadest sense — with annexes, for example — will also be the owner of the land in which it is implanted or, on the contrary, the owner of the land will acquire the buildings that have been built and maintained there. As the preambular title of the diploma records, the separation of land and housing property makes housing precarious and decreases its heritage value. of the same step, the owners of the dwellings are also faced with difficulties in their conservation, because credit institutions do not constitute mortgages only on buildings without the meeting with the property of the soil and thus will degrade the housing park, often used by people of limited financial resources. The preambular stress, as well as the creation of an exclusive incentive scheme for the acquisition of land ownership, not buildings, seems to be based on the assumption that priority should be given to the acquisition of soil by whom it constituted and/or maintains buildings. In other words, even if this is not perfectly explicit, it seems to be based on the fair principle that the right to housing should prevail; simply then this good assumption does not have a translation in the rest of the articulation, which places on equal plane the right to soil and the right to housing. In the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, the Left Block sought to overcome this fragility of the diploma by proposing that the authoritarian right of acquisition should be primarily attributed to the owner of the charity, provided that this claim expressly manifested. The aim was to protect the weakest part, preventing humble families and poor resources from being homeless, and the exchange of small compensation. This amendment was rejected in the Azores and was therefore not incorporated into this bill. We hope that, in the meantime, a new sensitivity has emerged to the problem and that the proposal will be accepted here, in the context of discussion on the subject. Still, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the conditions for leaving the Assembly of the Republic are created for a diploma that will help solve a problem that affects the lives of hundreds of Azorians and Azorians. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u192	Mrs Berta Cabral of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u193	Mr President: The bill we are considering today, on the initiative of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, aims to establish a legal regime for the regularization of the so-called 'Chons of Improvements'. With this bill, it is intended to solve a problem that dates back to the 19th century and has to do with the existence of dwellings built on land by other owners, through payment of income, usually cash and also normally paid per year. This separation between land ownership and housing property effectively constitutes a unique regime existing in the Azores, in particular in some localities of the island of São Miguel, which, over time, originated financial and also complex social situations. Complex financial situations are related to limitations in the transmission of property, the preservation and expansion of existing dwellings, also associated in most cases with the difficulty of obtaining credit and the formation of mortgages. The complex social situations are related to the degradation of the housing park, to the desertification of the parish where such problems exist and to the unjustified increase in the price of houses and land in these localities. Without urban areas for new constructions and without the possibility of expanding and preserving the existing building, young couples leave their ferries of origin, providing a vicious circle of desertification and population ageing difficult to reverse. This is a problem that has passed through several generations and some solutions have been tested to solve it, involving local owners and authorities and resorting to urban figures, including disaffectation and highlighting, provided for in the law and also in municipal regulations. However, these approaches, due to their bureaucratic complexity, have allowed only a few dozen situations to be solved. It is therefore important to find a more comprehensive solution, a solution that solves the problem of hundreds of cases that still persist, as I believe, the objective of this diploma and this initiative presented by the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores. in this sense, the PSD Parliamentary Group follows the proposal in question, without prejudice, however, to make some amendments in the field of specialty. I am referring, in particular, to situations relating to emigrant dwellings, which are not intended, because this has only to do with permanent dwellings. I therefore leave this alert and the availability to improve this diploma in committee. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u194	We shall continue with the intervention of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the basis of the draft law of the Regional Government to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, today we are debating a proposal from the legal regime for the regularization of the 'Chons of Improvements'. This reality, visible on the island of São Miguel, especially in the Seven Cities and in Santo António, stems from the assignment of use of soil, through financial counterpart, which is the target of benefit and / or edification, remaining on the property of the soil users. Designed by « Chão de Mejoras », this is a unique mechanism, registered since the 19th century, of separation of property, not falling within the form of compulsory contract, as well as in the legal rights legally specified. The situations resulting here are a complex social problem, limiting transmission and reducing heritage value. While the goods passed from generation to generation, remaining in the possession of families, no great difficulties arose. Given the possibility of land and building belonging to the same owner, combined with business interests, different issues arise, particularly in relation to the evaluations. On the other hand, the owners of improvements are faced with conservation and registration difficulties, as well as their relationship with banking institutions, contributing to their degradation. It is estimated that more than 600 people in this situation, in a remarkable area, encounter difficulties in the present situation and are unable to regulate their property, to which they are legally subject. Three areas of action are highlighted: ensuring the basis for a balance in the relationship between the owner of the land, or ground, and the owner of the benefactories, or improvements; encompassing the possibility of financial cooperation between the Regional Government and the municipal chambers in the exercise of the territorial planning and planning powers; regulating access to a social incentive scheme that facilitates the aggregation of the property as well as the respective registration. It is in this context that the Autonomous Region of the Azores calls upon the Assembly of the Republic to create a right to acquire the ownership of the soil or benefits in it and to establish a system for urban planning and planning of the territory. The PS Parliamentary Group will follow this initiative, a problem of hundreds of years, which now sees a solution by reconciling improvements to the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u196	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, this proposal for a law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores concerns a type of situation which is not within the framework of existing law, does not constitute the contractual relationship as a relationship of the law of obligations, but also the real rights and the figures existing in the real rights, the typical figures of the real rights do not fit and cannot cover these situations. Basically, there are, at the same time, two types of property over one unit, the building and the soil, in which the soil belongs to one person and the building belongs to another. This reality has made it difficult for both living and mortis to be transmitted, and has also led to a depreciation of the assessments of this type of buildings, as well as to be a problem because anyone who wants to make improvements in these dwellings and to use a bank loan making a mortgage of good cannot do so. Thus, the extraordinary regime which is intended to create here has a deadline for this situation to be regularized by one or another way, i.e. who owns the soil acquires the building or who owns the building acquires the soil. In this proposal for a law, the terms in which this possibility exists, as well as — important matters, too — the urban issues of regularization of these types of situations are well expressed. It seems to us, however, that the question of cases in which we are not faced with permanent housing situations, which exist, and which obviously have no answer to this bill, may be raised. Since a process is opened to solve these situations, the desirable thing is to conclude the legislative process by solving all and not just a few. That will be what the CDS Parliamentary Group will be committed to, in general, voting in favour of this initiative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u198	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Much has already been said on this subject; yet I would like to make a few comments. The so-called "Chão de Mejoras" is already characterized in the various interventions, we all know what this is about. We have carefully read the discussions held on this matter in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, we have found the broad consensus on the need to solve this problem and also some aspects that have raised some discussion in the Legislative Assembly of the Region. Indeed, in recent decades we have been abolishing, by legislative means, archaic real rights. This happened with the extinction of the emphysteuse a few decades ago, with the extinction of the settlement regime in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but after all there is the « ground of improvement », whose situations also need to be resolved and regularized. We will still take a few years until this is done, because, according to this bill, it is necessary, first, for municipalities to proceed with the approval of their detailed plans so that the property situation will be duly regularised, so that, according to the bill, there will be a period of two years—in the debate of the Legislative Assembly of the Region, it has been brought into question if it will be possible in two years that all municipalities proceed to the approval of the details plans and it has been admitted that yes, we will admit that yes—and then a legislative right which can be exercised over 10 years. Therefore, we will still have some time until the total abolition of this atypical legal figure takes place. In any case, there is a great consensus as to the need to do so. With regard to the problems, Mr Matias has just put here one that is real, which is the fact that there is a situation of economic inequality between the landowner and the owner of housing, the person who has built the housing, in favour of the person who inhabits that soil and has its construction there, and that this can be translated into denial of the right of housing of these people. That's a real problem. I believe that, in the specialty, we must look into this situation to find a just solution. In addition, there is an article of the bill that we do not particularly like, which is the possibility of recourse to the arbitral tribunal. It is expected that this power will be used judicially, i.e. that it will be used in the event of a judicial decision which, in a way, will be approved by the exercise of the power, but then, when the possibility of recourse to an arbitral tribunal is foreseen, we know that, when there is a situation of economic inequality between the parties, the arbitral tribunal normally acts as a field in favour of the strongest part. Therefore, it seems to us that, with the possibility of recourse to state courts, that is where we should go, avoiding situations that can translate into inequality. In any case, there is a very broad consensus on the need to resolve this problem by legislation and on our part there is every commitment to this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u200	With this intervention, we shall put an end to the debate on point six of our work. We move on to point seven, which is part of the general assessment of the Proposal for a Law No 162 / XIII / 4. a ( ALRAM ) — Change the value added tax code(CIVA) and return electricity to list 1 — Goods and services subject to reduced VAT rate. For an intervention, Mr Ernesto Ferraz of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The framework. It was the year 2011 and the country and the Portuguese were surrounded by the troika, which came with a clear mission: cut into the fats of those who had lived above their possibilities, they said. In RAM ( Autonomous Region of Madeira ), this reality surpassed another one: also in 2011 the PSD of Alberto João Jardim and the coalition Steps / Doors imposed a PAEF, Economic and Financial Adjustment Plan, as a result of a hidden and terrifying debt for the common future. In the Autonomous Region of Madeira, austerity reached a double dose. The tax increase would be temporary, they said, the PAEF would last until 2014, the year in which it was expanded for another year, until 2015. We are in 2019 and four years later what would be temporary has become final and electricity VAT, for example, remains in the Autonomous Region of Madeira at its maximum rate. This bill, coming from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, aims to restore the reduced rate of VAT on electricity, almost a decade ago on this exponential increase. At the end of Parliament it is time to deepen this debate and prepare for the near future so that this reduced rate of VAT in electricity will soon be restored, and this is a first-needed asset for the whole population and businesses. For example, we begin by restoring this reduction in autonomous regions, island territories, outermost territories and loaded with daily constraints to those who live and work there. from the Left Block, we will vote as we did in the Regional Assembly and hope that the PS will also do so. By political coherence, by the positive territorial discrimination of the island regions, by greater social cohesion, is cut into excessive incomes because, if so, there will be room for manoeuvre to end these abuses of electricity taxes, which last over time beyond acceptable. If the vote recorded in ALRAM is reflected, this bill has the way to synchronize and reduce the burden of taxes that the Portuguese pay every month, replacing those who exploit energy in this country and profit much, even so, at the cost of the permanent sacrifices of the majority of the population. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u202	I now give the floor to Mr Cristóvão Crespo of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law we are discussing originates from the Regional Legislative Assembly of Madeira and intends to put the electricity back on list 1 of the VAT code. This means that all electricity billing is 6 % on the continent, 5 % on Madeira and 4 % on the Azores. This measure aims to reverse a measure of the Troika memorandum signed in May 2011 by the PS, represented by Prime Minister José Socrates and the Minister of Teixeira Finance of the Saints,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u204	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u205	... which sought to increase VAT revenue in order to obtain an additional revenue of at least EUR 420 million. [[PS protests.]] I repeat, EUR 420 million, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. And this was obtained by transferring goods and services from reduced and intermediate VAT rates to higher rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u206	And the PSD strongly opposed it!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u207	The way in which this matter is dealt, the VAT of electricity, is the mirror of the operation of the parliamentary majority of this legislature. This majority — PS, Left Block and PCP — has treated the material relevant to the generality of Portuguese, whether resident in Madeira, the Azores or the continent, in an avulge and always carrying on the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u208	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u209	So you're going to vote in favour? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u210	This cannot be seen in isolation, but in a more comprehensive framework for reducing the tax burden. This left-wing majority has always been charging in this reinforcement of the tax burden, but this matter cannot be equationd alone, it does not make sense that this is so, it has to be weighted with other tax burden measures and framed in the context of the State's expenditure. Nor does it stop being curious to see what the PS positioning is going to be. How will the PS, who voted in favour of Madeira, vote here?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u211	Good challenge!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u212	We'll vote the same way!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u213	What we have to conclude, Mr President, is that the whole strategy of this majority, either for energy or for which matter it is, is all of it, 'coasted with spit', using popular language. Do not look at the national interest in an integrated way, always increasing the tax burden at the end. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u214	But in this case it's to decrease! So you're going to vote in favour? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u215	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are currently debating a proposal for a law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which was presented in October 2018 at its plenary session and which amends the VAT code and restores electricity to the listI. We are well aware that the change in the VAT rate of electricity from 6 % to 23 % on the continent occurred on 16 September 2011 due to the financial rescue programme, at a time of crisis, which penalized the populations of both the continent and the autonomous regions. in this proposal for a law, it refers to the concern of the most deprived who earn less income, which we, the Socialist Party, accompany and to whom we address, both in the Government and in Parliament, much of our work. We have always expressed concern about the needy and we have fought to make the social energy tariff really effective and to benefit who needed it, which did not happen in the past, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, this tariff covers 821 000 economically vulnerable family members. Let's remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this diploma was made by the Socialist Party and that in the time of the previous government only covered 80 000 aggregates at the end of this legislature. Today, it's 821 000 aggregates! We have also recently published a decree amending the VAT Code, which entered into force on 1 July, which also had a legislative authorisation in the 2019 Budget, determining the application of the reduced VAT rate to the fixed component of certain electricity and natural gas supplies. And quote: « is taxed by the reduced rate of 6 % on the continent and by 4 % and 5 % respectively in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, for consumers who have a contracted power not exceeding 3, 45 KWA and who, in the natural gas, have low pressure consumption not exceeding 10 000 m3 per year ». This is designed to protect vulnerable consumers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also have other measures that aim to reduce the actual cost of electricity and gas and which have been taken in this legislature, such as the reduction of 3, 5 % in the transitional tariffs incurred, which affects about 1, 13 million families, such as the average decrease of 14, 3 % in the network access rates that all consumers will benefit from irrespective of their aggregate. I have already talked about the discount on the social tariff and there are still many other measures that, I think, we must continue to present. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognises that this is an important matter which will have to be equated at a next opportunity, after an in-depth evaluation, taking into account the country's financial conditions, so it considers the initiative premature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u217	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I confess that, when I saw the schedule of this bill of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the first reaction I had was to think that she was extemporaneous. This is because, following the budgetary debate for this year, we have heard numerous times, I would say, ad nauseum, parties from the left parliament boast that they have lowered VAT on electricity. So, two, one, or this proposal from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira does not make sense, because the parliamentary left has already lowered the VAT of electricity, or the parliamentary left has been lying to the country for six months...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u219	Four years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u220	... because it says it lowered the VAT of electricity, but after all it takes a new bill to do what you said you had already done. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Therefore, it does not cease to be an interesting debate mainly in relation to the Socialist Party's position. The Socialist Party let the Left Block and the PCP say they had lowered the electricity tax, when they knew perfectly well that this was not true. And now it appears to say that what was supposed to have been done in the Budget, after all, is premature. Mrs Hortense Martins, you have to explain to me how something that supposedly happened last November becomes premature in July of the following year! You have to be able to explain this succession in time of a thing that has been voted on and that six months later becomes premature.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u221	It's worse to pretend you don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u222	Therefore, the Socialist Party, in the vote tomorrow, will have the opportunity to explain to the Madeirans and the Portuguese people, but also to all the citizens of the country, what is effectively the essence of a party that lets it be said that the VAT of electricity had dropped at the end of last year, which voted in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the reduction of the VAT of electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u223	Is it in maximum power or minimum power? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u224	Let us see how tomorrow the legislature will end and what a word it will give the Madeirans, the Portuguese people and the rest of Portugal about the effective low VAT of electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u225	And the CDS, what will you say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u226	It remains a curiosity about what was the Socialist Party's hypocrisy stance in this legislature. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u227	Let's see what the gentlemen will say! Is that what you're talking about? [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u228	For the last speech on this item on the agenda, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u229	Now you'll hear the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. over the years, the PCP has defended the need to reduce the final cost of electricity and gas in Portugal. This was a demand that was of greater importance in the follow-up to the processes of privatization, segmentation and liberalisation of the energy sector realized by successive PS governments, PSD and CDS. In 2011, under the troika programme, the PSD/CDS government imposed an increase in the VAT rate of electricity and natural gas from 6 % to 23 %...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u231	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u232	... giving more a beat in the objective of reducing the cost of energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u233	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u234	This was an extremely penalizing measure for both families, especially those with the lowest incomes, and for the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u235	Have they gone down yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u236	The dramatic social problems caused by the increase in the VAT rate in energy and the negative consequences of these increases in the cost structure and the competitiveness of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Portugal demanded the reversal of this measure. But all the PCP proposals in this sense—and were many—were rejected by the PSD and the CDS, but also by the PS. And in the last State budget for 2019, we made a proposal to reduce the VAT rate to 6 % that the President of the Committee on Budgets and Finance did not allow him to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u237	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new phase of national political life, which began after the 2015 legislative elections, allowed the reversal of many serious measures of the former PSD / CDS government and the conquest of new rights. But by resistance from the PS and its government, it has not yet been possible to completely reverse the measure of aggravation of the electricity VAT rate. In the State budget for 2019, with the decisive contribution of the CFP, a reduction in the costs of electricity and natural gas was ensured through the allocation of funds resulting from the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector in conjunction with the reduction of VAT for light and gas counters with minimum power. This is a measure which, of course, the CFP values, because it contributes to the reduction of costs with electricity and natural gas, but it falls short of what the CFP has been defending, which is the replacement of the VAT rate in 6 %. The CFP will therefore follow the proposed law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which will reduce electricity VAT. We know that this measure has a relevant budgetary impact, but we believe that priority should be the resolution of the problems of people and the country and not, as has been the choice of the PS and its government, followed by the PSD and the CDS, the accelerated reduction of the budget deficit, which according to the latest data is no longer deficit but surplus. The big question at the moment is to move forward and not to walk back—...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u240	... move forward in the replacement and conquest of rights; move forward in response to the problems of workers and the people; reduce electricity VAT to 6 %. Fully reversing the severe measure of the previous PSD/CDS Government is a just, necessary and possible measure. Its realisation will contribute to the improvement of the living conditions of the population, as it will translate into a growth factor of the economy and employment. The CFP will therefore vote in favour of reducing electricity VAT tomorrow. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u241	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor to use the remaining time... to speak, you understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u242	Everyone realized it wasn't the extreme-unction!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is interesting for the Socialist Party to come, at this moment, with the argument of the resources, when they said that the austerity had ended, that we had overcome it and turned the page...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u244	You've got days!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u245	I think here clearly falls the mask on the Socialist Party. On the other hand, with regard to the PCP and the Left Block, at the end of four years it is Mr. Do Members feel uncomfortable with this majority? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, four years have passed, four State budgets! [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Have you not had the opportunity, within your majority, to deal with these situations? As I said before, your governance has had aghast measures and « coladas a cuspo». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u246	It's the blah, blah, blah of the habit!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u247	Mrs. Members, the Secretary of the Bureau, Emília Santos, will take account of the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 2253 / XIII / 4. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent removal of all existing asbestos at the premises of the Ginestal Machado High School in Santarém, 2254 / XIII / 4. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the equitable safeguard of the rights of all fishermen affected by the Windfloat Atlantic Project, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 2255 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Protects the historical and social importance of the student republics of the city of Coimbra, which goes down to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u249	Thank you very much, Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us return to point 5 of the agenda, which is set out in the discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 196 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to create a system for the collection, registration and analysis of data on science and technology. To present the legislative initiative on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will make a brief presentation of our proposal for a law and then, in the subsequent period, I will be available to provide the necessary clarifications in accordance with European rules, in particular the General Data Protection Regulation, the Government proposes with this diploma the creation of a system of statistical monitoring and monitoring of data on science and technology. These data will be collected both from the perspective of human resources and from institutions of scientific activity and production, projects, programs and funding. To this end, it is also necessary to create the digital competence observatory, the scientific and teaching employment observatory and an inquiry into employment in public higher education. This proposal is also the implementation of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 286 / 2018, which recommends to the Government the correct and effective application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August on the doctoral recruitment regime. The creation of this registration system and the analysis of data in science and technology, because it is necessary to establish duties of collection, communication and other form of processing of personal data, which are not currently legally provided for, is subject to rights, freedoms and guarantees. in this sense, this bill authorizes the government to collect and process certain personal data defined in the articulate. Therefore, to provide for the achievement of the scientific employment observatory under these terms has the advantage of maintaining a system of regular monitoring of scientific employment in all R & D (research and development) institutions in Portugal, including the level of precarious employment or pockets, advances and part-time contracts in each institution ; to monitor, transparently, the level of compliance of the various legislative diplomas on scientific employment in accordance with the recommendation of the R & D Assembly ; to improve national R & D statistics through a human resources reporting system that allows better validation of data and identification of duplicates. in this situation, the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics (DGEEC) and the Directorate-General for Higher Education ( DGES) are the entities responsible for the processing of personal data, the same being disclosed to the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ) for the purpose of official statistics. It is in this sense that the Government calls on the Assembly of the Republic to approve this bill, which ultimately aims to do what is already happening for teachers today, i.e. to be extended also to researchers with all the advantages that come to them, especially for themselves and for the entire higher education and scientific system in Portugal, that this information can be public and made available. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u251	Mrs Ana Mesquita has signed up to make a request for clarification, but the Secretary of State has only one second to answer. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, in the legislative authorization and draft decree-law, which focuses on data collection procedures, including personal data, focus on aspects relating to the creation and maintenance of the collection, registration and analysis system, but it seems to me that, despite the presentation made here, there are some doubts that we would like you to answer. We would like to understand, because it is not detailed, the following: what are the purposes and the specific scope of the proposal that is brought here; what will be the concrete use of these data collected; how will access be done, i.e., who will have access to, what, and until what level of detail; what concrete mechanisms will be adopted to ensure the full confidentiality of all personal data collected. And since this is a system that covers the public and the private, it means that private and public will have access to everyone's data and will be all the data, will it be partial data, will it be detailed data, will it be only statistical data? Where, in particular, will this be defined to this level of detail? I would also like to say that it seems to us that the concrete use of this information, of all the data collected, is not in detail, so we would like this clarification to be given. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u253	As the Government only has one second at this stage but will then have another two minutes at the closing stage, I would suggest that the Secretary of State answer Mrs Ana Mesquita at the end. Could you be, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u254	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u255	I now give the floor to Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It requires the Government to be granted legislative authorization to create a system for the collection, registration and analysis of data on science and technology relating to human resources, institutions, activity and scientific production, projects, programmes and financing. In the justification procedure preceding the submission of the bill, it is found that the Government did not invoke the existence of studies, opinions and other documents on which, if any, it had reasoned, being also omitted as regards the charges and the budgetary implications which, necessary and directly, will result from the adoption and implementation of the decree. As a result of the obvious lightness with which you wish to legislate, fundamental rules which can pollute your diploma are also ignored. In fact, and for example, in the text which came to us, specifically in Chapter IV, concerning the « survey on employment in public higher education », information on human resources which are integrated in the forecast of Article 15. the, to be provided by higher education institutions, subject to penalty for non-compliance, and to collect through the public higher education employment survey, includes individual data whose access should be restricted and protected. In fact, an opinion issued by the National Data Protection Commission raised, in due course, questions related to the organic and formal unconstitutionality of another project, which, in this case, appears to us, have not been fully attended and guarded either. We also have several other reservations with regard to this diploma in the context of the practical use of the bases, in particular with regard to the reliability of the information contained therein and the legality of the widespread dissemination of access to it. In any case, the existence of a database with public and permanent information that includes all people involved in scientific research is justified, but full respect for fundamental rights, including the right to the protection of personal data, can only be explained by reason of the costs and the budgetary adjustment. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u257	The floor is now for an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: With this bill, the Government intends to create a system for the collection, registration and analysis of data on science and technology, a scientific and teaching employment observatory to cover, in addition to teachers, also researchers and ensure the proper evolution of statistical instruments of scientific and qualified employment of national and international relevance. The advantages of this observatory, Mr Secretary of State, are also recognised: to maintain a system for regular monitoring of scientific employment in all R & D institutions in Portugal ; to monitor the level of compliance with the various legislative diplomas on scientific employment and its supervision, as recommended by a resolution of this Assembly of the Republic ; to identify and distinguish partial employment resulting from accumulations of precarious partial employment contracts of researchers without any career link and to see whether the contractual link has been obtained through PREVPAP(Unordinary Precise Link Regularisation Programme in Public Administration ) ; and also to improve national R & D statistics through a human resources reporting system that allows for improved data validation and identification of duplicates. This diploma therefore deepens the nature of advertising and data collection of previous laws in the annual survey to higher education teachers. It is also important to highlight the innovative nature of this instrument, which includes researchers and not only teachers and which combines financial information. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, only with this scientific and teaching employment observatory solution - it is possible to monitor the contracts that come there in 2021 and 2024. The proposal which we discussed today was expelled from the Science Act, as you know, given the scope of the solution in question lacking the authorization of the Assembly of the Republic to cover risks associated with the disclosure of personal data from service users. The opinions requested by the National Data Protection Commission and the National Statistical Council make it possible to protect these risks in order to have an effective monitoring solution and another important instrument in the national scientific and technological system. Finally, welcoming the government for the way it has defined science policy. The rigor and transparency present in the creation of this observatory, with the cautions I have already talked about, with the consultations with the INE and the National Data Protection Commission, is well the sign of a government gain that placed knowledge at the service of the people and the development of the country. Open science and broadband information for the democratization and dissemination of knowledge is a socialist brand that we are very proud of. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u259	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislation has proved that there really is an importance of making an X-ray on the quality of employment in higher education and science. Perhaps it proved for the worst reasons: the numbers of precarious contracts, of invited teachers, of researchers who, instead of being under the Statute of the Scholarship, should be under their respective careers, have proved, over these four years, that the political debate itself took place within this House, but also outside all laboratories, research centres, universities, political institutes, proved that we need more up-to-date data, more concrete data, because they are also a precious instrument for parliamentary groups, civil society and, above all, researchers to have this instrument that protects them from their condition, often precarious. In fact, data, sometimes vague, comes from international entities or studies and we end up using them in our day-to-day debate, in the Education and Science Committee itself or here in plenary. Therefore, once again, it is important to relate and compare the studies that also exist in Portugal and that, now, this observatory may come to promote precisely that. But we cannot fail to reflect on a matter which I would not say is central, but which seems to me at the same time to remember and forget on the part of the Government. The Government, in the explanatory statement, says that the Scientific and Teacher Employment Observatory also serves to respond to the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 276 / 2018, which recommends to the Government the correct and effective implementation of the decree-law. First of all, it is good that the Government, almost three weeks after the end of the legislative session, has remembered that there is a resolution for the government itself to comply with what it should comply with. It is also important to warn the government that it is not with the creation of the observatory that the situation will be resolved. This lacks, above all, a different position on the part of the Ministry, on the part of the Secretary of State and, above all, on the part of the Minister. But at the same time as it speaks of the correct and effective application of Decree-Law No 57 / 2006, it is not understood why, in Article 9. in particular point 2, when it is said to include all doctors, if it is actually excluding all science and technology management pockets that do not have a doctorate. So these pockets, which are precarious, which are under the status of scientific research scholarship, and not under a career, do not enter this observatory? Does the Government not want to show these numbers? It may be important to reflect on Article 9 ( 2 ). the, because if we really want a total coverage in data analysis we can't leave anyone behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u261	Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State : I could not fail to mention in this intervention, given that our mailboxes and our mobile phones were flooded by this news, the accident of a fire fighting device in the district by which I was elected. Everyone hopes that there is no gravity in this accident, having just been informed that the wound is mild, that everyone is okay and there is no life to regret. This is good for all, and I also hope that this moment will serve as a tribute to the men and women who give life for us in this fight. Mr. Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Higher Education, when preparing this intervention, I thought that the PSD Parliamentary Group would probably agree with and be pleased with an initiative of science, with an initiative by this government, brought by this Minister. We were almost there! In fact, if this initiative had taken place longer, we would not have gone through even the question or attempts of the Minister of Protection to deceive Parliament with data that are not true or that do not exactly correspond to the truth. There is something to be said: this instrument can bring greater transparency to science policy in Portugal, something that has not existed, not only in this folder, as it is transversal to the rest of the government. Mr. Secretary of State, we have doubts as to what the scope of this database will be. It refers to doctoral researchers and teachers, but there is doubt about what will happen to the other students and fellow students who have only mastered. Are they part of the national scientific system? Let us hope they are included so that this can bring greater transparency in the analysis and greater efficiency in the objective that we bring here. There is an observatory of digital skills, an observatory of scientific and teaching employment — this government is good at creating observatories. What we want, Mr Secretary of State, is that these observatories are independent, transparent and that it is possible to draw conclusions from this to define better policies and structural reforms that can bring more quality. Mr Secretary of State, we feel that this observatory and this initiative have revealed a reality that is not the reality that the government has tried to present to the Portuguese in this sector. I shall conclude, Mr Secretary of State, by saying that this will at least be the least criticised measure of all governance in the field of science and perhaps the most consensual of all those that have been taken. This is not a good sign in relation to this measure, but a bad sign in relation to the rest of the government has done in this area. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u263	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u264	Mr President, Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Higher Education, the questions we have asked recently are not suspicious, even taking into account the debate we have had here. Indeed, this initiative still deserves us doubts about its objective by the way in which the bill is drafted and by this power to raise the possibility of extravading the mere achievement of statistical results. This is something that we had to point out and also the need to take into account the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, which is essential. This initiative, Mr. Secretary of State, has an undeniable merit that cannot be squambled: recognition, if not formal, by the Government, of the enormous precariousness affecting the scientific and technical system and science in general. This situation is not structurally and radically altered by the decree-law establishing the legal regime of the institutions concerned with research and development, on which, in fact, we have submitted a request for parliamentary review. We did it, among other reasons, because it is more of the same and more from the same perspective as the PSD and CDS had in relation to science.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u265	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u266	It seems to us, Mr Secretary of State — and we reaffirm — that science should be seen as a public good, should be stimulated through public funding, not limiting lines of research, but opening prospects for economic and social development, ensuring at the same time — and this is a fundamental issue — the full fulfilment of workers' rights and the fight against precariousness. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u267	In order to close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. First of all, I'd like to calm the gentlemen down. Members with regard to any doubts about the use of the data. The use of data that will in fact be collected is quite similar to what has already been done, in particular with the data of the teaching body through REBIDES (biographical register of higher education teachers), which is today crucial information for higher education institutions, for the country itself and for this House, so as to be within that information. So what we have here, in this case, is also a level of information necessary for us to have an idea of how scientific employment is going, so that this House can have an idea on this subject, also with a pedagogical effect. knowing each other and whether the higher education institutions themselves know how the process is going in other institutions, which, perhaps, are working in a more efficient way, I think that this will also have a pedagogical effect of motivation to follow good practices. I would also like to highlight that part. It was also mentioned in the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission. We have an opinion which refers to the need for approval by the House, but which does not reserve that information may be collected. In addition, the opinion of the Higher Council of Statistics also refers to the information to be collected, not placing reservations on that information. So I think we can be quiet about that. Mrs. Ilda Araújo Novo, I would like to tell you that at the moment this issue will be worked out in the databases of our DGEC ( Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics ), so it will not bring an increase in terms of the need for funding, it will be accommodated in the structure already established in the Directorate-General. I would also like to tell Mr Duarte Marques that, not agreeing with what he has said about what is today the data and the transmission of data from science and higher education in Portugal, I believe that this is proof of our Ministry's will to be public and that these data can also be covered by this House. It seems to me that this is a demonstration of the position of our Ministry and the Government on this matter. I think I've wasted the time I had and tried to clarify what was needed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-07-03.u269	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I would like to state the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting on 4 July, the beginning of which, I remember, is also marked at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes. First of all, we shall proceed to the joint discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 202 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the arrangements applicable to the inventory process and drafts of Law No 1234 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code by establishing a system of impermenability of the housing itself and permanent and by setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages and 1235 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Change the legal regime of the inventory process by strengthening the general control powers of the judge. of the second item on the agenda is the general discussion of Bill Nos 193 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Change the regime of the European arrest warrant and 192 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — implements Regulation ( EU ) No 2017 / 1939, implementing enhanced cooperation for the institution of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. of the third point is the general discussion of the Bill No 200 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime of performing medical and forensic expertise. The fourth item on the agenda is scheduled for joint discussion, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 205 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Approves the legal regime of access to law and courts and drafts of Law No 1232 / XIII / 4. a ( BE ) — Determines the modification of the legal system of legal costs in order to ensure greater access to courts by workers, precarious workers and the generality of citizens( 14 ). the amendment to the Rules of Procedure ) and 1233 / XIII / 4. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access to law and courts. The fifth point follows the general discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 199 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — Ensures implementation and ensures compliance in the domestic legal order with the obligations arising from Regulation ( EU ) No 536 / 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use. of the sixth is the general discussion of the Bill No 201 / XIII / 4. a ( GOV ) — establishes mechanisms for settling disputes involving the competent authorities of Portugal and other Member States of the European Union as a result of the interpretation and application of international agreements and conventions to avoid double taxation of income by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 1852. At the seventh point, the general discussion of Bill Nos 1196 / XIII / 4 is scheduled. a ( PS ) — Sets limits and additional advertising rules for nominations to support political office holders, 1198 / XIII / 4. a ( N insc) — The seventh amendment is made to Law No 2 / 2004 of 15 January and the second amendment to the Statute of the Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration published in the Annex to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 1200 / XIII / 4. a ( N insc) — The fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March, the second amendment to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August, the seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2008 of 22 February, and the second amendment to the Statutes of the Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration published in Annex to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December, 1201 / XIII / 4. a ( N insc) — The second amendment is made to the Statutes of the Recruitment and Selection Commission for Public Administration published in Annex A to Law No 64 / 2011 of 22 December 1205 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Entity's Organization and Operation Law for Transparency and proceeds to 9. the amendment to Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November ( Law of Organization, Operation and Process of the Constitutional Court ) and 1228 / XIII / 4. a ( PS ) — Creates the Entity for Transparency in the Exercise of Public Charges together with Resolution Projects Nos 1239 / XIII / 3. a ( PS ) — Approves the Code of Conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic and 2174 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Code of Conduct of Deputies to the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, from the eighth and last point, there is the general discussion of the draft resolution No 2239 / XIII / 4. a ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes) — General principles for awarding grants to support the political activity of Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 3 minutes.]]
