ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, Journalists and Members. Journalists, let's start the plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gallery doors to the public. on the agenda today, there is a thematic debate required by the BE Parliamentary Group under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, on the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ( PREVPAP ). The Government will be present at this debate, although it is not yet in the Chamber. Today there are many transit difficulties, which is also true of the number of Members who have not yet arrived. However, I have already spoken to the Left Block Parliamentary Group, which will open the debate, and then the Government will intervene a little later. You then have the floor, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, to speak for the opening of the debate. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before I begin my intervention, I would like to greet the precarious workers of the RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), who are at the door of Parliament claiming their integration, I would like to welcome the precarious and precarious conditions of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), who are in the galleries, and also the precarious workers of the IEFP ( Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, IP ) and the trainees of the PEPAC ( Programme of Vocational Internships in the Central Public Administration ) who will also attend this debate. The process of regularization of precarious links in public administration is one of the most important measures to combat precariousness that comes from the previous legislation. It is a programme which has been taken from the former government and whose law has been made in this Parliament with an intense debate and detailed discussions. PSD and CDS have always been against the integration of precariouss. They voted against the law and against all proposed amendments, did not present any measures in the specialty, and therefore the discussion of solutions was always done by the left. Strangely enough, the Socialist Party has chosen not to make any reference to PREVPAP in this government's programme, but PREVPAP is far from finished. What has surpassed the previous government mandate is not just an administrative process to which, in some cases, bureaucratic steps would be lacking. No, what we inherited from the previous Parliament is an ongoing process, which involves political decisions by the government, decisions on which the lives of many people, people who are waiting for an answer to their situation for too long. There are still decisions to be taken at the evaluation committees and various ministries. And let us not forget that in these committees the government, on its own initiative, has the majority of the votes and therefore full responsibility. And there are many issues to be resolved. The first problem concerns the delays and decisions that remain. The pen that I use today is equal to the 50 pens that the Minister of Finance received for these days and which were sent to them by RTP workers. It is worth remembering that, in June this year, the Minister of Finance was here in Parliament and said the following about RTP's precariousness: "The only thing I can guarantee right now is that there will be no silly season or vacation time to deal with these situations; they are being analysed and will be completed very soon. (...) Very briefly, within weeks, all these cases will be clarified». Now, we are practically at the end of the year and there are no clear cases, no single signature, not even one single word from Minister Centeno about these workers. The same could be said about what happens at the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere, where processes were approved on July 18, 2018. It has spent so much time and the workers still do not have their regular status or open competitions. However, there was a meeting between the presidents of the governing councils of the State Laboratories and the Secretary of State for Finance — a new order is being prepared to increase the time limit for these people. At the LNEC ( National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ), the same situation is seen: specialized education technicians received approval in September, competitions did not open and schools say they do not have any guidance from the Ministry of Finance to open the competitions. PEPAC trainees have been with their lives on standby for two years. After the evaluation committees have recognized that there were jobs there, the places are still to be filled. In some cases, as in the case of justice, we have leaders to escape their responsibility and not assume that they used these trainees to meet permanent needs. The second problem, which adds to the slowness and drag of this process, is the lack of transparency and response to workers: resources that do not have answers, requests for information to the CABs ( Bipartite Evaluation Committees ), in which applicants are not given access to documents, lack of clarity in decisions taken by the evaluation committees. Thirdly, this lack of clarity and transparency adds to a confusion such as that which is happening in the case of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, directly protected by the Minister of Labour. The IEFP decided that 507 vacancies would be opened, after knowing that the evaluation committees had given a positive opinion to 1200 trainers. In other words, the IEFP decided to open less than half of the vacancies than the positive opinions given by the evaluation committee. How is that possible? What's going to happen to the 693 trainers who won't have a job? Will we continue to see a precarious pattern in the hiring of IEFP? In conclusion, I also refer to other problems that are to be solved, such as the absence of repositioning in careers and consideration of the service time of the precarious workers who have already been regularized, as well as all the questions of the workers who were hired after PREVPAP. We do not want PREVPAP to be a sort of regularization parenthesis in a precarious pattern that remains unchanged. For our part, we do not give up this struggle or relieve our responsibility, and it was good for Parliament and the government to take up their commitments here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u3	Mr José Moura Soeiro, the Bureau records the registration of two Mrs. Members for clarification requests, one from the PSD and the other from the PS. To this end, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, the precarious workers of the Public Administration feel justified: they are deceived by a government that you have supported, which began by creating an expectation to integrate 116 000 precarious workers into their frameworks, and quickly reducing that number to something like 31 000. This means that, in a sitting place, more than 80 000 precarious workers were left on the edge. This is a government that deceives workers, particularly the remaining 31 000, who should have been re-entered into the public administration by 31 December last year, when there are very few at the moment. The overwhelming majority of these 31 000 precarious workers continue as they have always been, in the greatest danger. This is therefore a government that deceives workers and deceives Portuguese people: it has promised to reduce precariousness in public administration, but on the contrary it has increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u5	He's increased with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u6	Yes, sir. Members, precariousness in public administration has increased. If we compare with the last quarter of 2015, i.e. the period prior to the entry into office of the government of management, we found that the weight of contracts to end in the Public Administration was at the time of 9, 7%! [[PS Member Protests António Gameiro.]] Do you know what it is now, Mr. António Gameiro? About 11%. [[PSD applause.]] Mr José Soeiro, the opposition of the Left Block to the Government has days — it has days! — and today, Friday, it is one of these days. Therefore, I ask you whether in the next few days, in the next few weeks, in the next few months, the Left Block will be, in this matter, opposition to the Government or whether, on the contrary, it will resume the talk of conviviality with the Government, as it did in the previous legislature, a government that has deceived the Portuguese, which has misled the precarious workers of the Public Administration, who, as you said from the rostrum, has deliberately delayed the process of regularization and has, as we all know, increased the precariousness of the Public Administration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u7	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alexandra Moura of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was with the Socialist Party and with Antonio Guterres that in 1997 we saw the completion of a process involving trade unions and that allowed the integration into the public administration of about 40,000 workers with false green receipts and long-term contracts that aimed at satisfying permanent needs. Today, like 20 years ago, it was the PS that assumed the importance of regularizing the bonds of public officials, dignifieding the work in public functions, strategic arm of the social state, which we want to maintain and improve. Yes, it was the Socialist Party and the Government that took steps to end one of the greatest concerns, which has long been claimed by the public administration workers: the regularization of their link. It was in a clear, demanding and transparent manner that, with the support of the parties on our left, we thought, designed and conceived the programme of regularization of illegitimate labour relations. We are proud because this was an open and participated process by the services, the unions and the government. We therefore assume the complexity of this process. And, too, we doubled the times of delivery of the requests and allowed them to be re-appreciated. We have assumed its finalization, as we have already assumed new employment contracts. We thus value human capital. We add motivation and productivity, but we are aware that we still have to do more and better. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions we are asking are the following: do you not consider the Left Block that this process should have opened up, including trade unions, services and government? Does it not consider the Left Block that it is preferable to have a longer but inclusive process than a shorter and more exclusive process? Does not the Left Block consider that, with some 6000 institutions in the state and having just referred to four now, this programme is truly a success? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u9	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u10	Mr President, Mrs Alexandra Moura, we had this discussion with the Socialist Party and agreed on the deadlines for this process, which we wanted to be inclusive, involved. And we set deadlines in the law, which were not invented by the Left Block, but which were agreed and voted in favour of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Greens and the Left Block. Those deadlines were in law. The question that needs to be asked is why these deadlines have been completely blown up and rejected by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u12	There are people who have been waiting for a single thing for months: that Mr Finance Minister sign the opinions, the approvals that have been on top of his secretary for months. In June this year, Mr Minister for Finance told RTP that very soon the problems would be solved and that he would very soon sign the opening of the competitions. Where's the signature? The same is true of the IPMA, whose workers since 2018 have the processes approved, only missing signing and opening the contests. And why don't you open it? Because a committee has been set up to know what they will have, a committee that has been dragging for months. The same is true of IEFP. Ms. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, who is present, explained what will happen to the IEFP. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I ask you: what did the PSD do for these precarious workers? Nothing! The PSD voted against PREVPAP, was against regularization, in this legislature, of course, it hasn't done anything yet, and in the previous legislation it hasn't done anything. That's the PSD curriculum on the precarious. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u13	Before we move on to the next speaker, I remember that there are elections to the Council of State in Sala D. Maria, the Superior Council of National Defence and the Supreme Council of Internal Security. Then you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u14	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to greet you, especially because it is the first time I am here with you, to participate, in this quality and in these functions of Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, in the discussion of a subject that is particularly expensive to me and for which I have fought throughout my life, as an inspector of work, which is that of combating precariousness. Therefore, I know very well this subject, which I think has to join us all as Country. I also welcome, in particular, the Left Block for the initiative it had to schedule the issue that we are debating today, because it is something that should mobilise us all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think we all have to agree on the strategic importance that this program, PREVPAP, represents for the Public Administration. This is clearly a historic process of greater importance, in which for the first time since the Government of Antonio Guterres, of the PS, which has already been mentioned today, a process of regularization of irregular situations in the Public Administration is happening. It is a very involved basic work, which was opened to the initiative of all concerned, with the monitoring and active participation of trade unions in all two-party evaluation committees, ministry to ministry, allowing municipalities also to regularize situations in an autonomous process, with the State giving the example to the private sector and businesses. Precautionary is a problem and a priority. But it has to be a priority of all and not just of some. We know that we share this concern with the left-wing parliamentary parties, even when we do not agree with all the solutions. But we know that the right does not share these concerns that we have all assumed or shared the priority we should give to public services and state services.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u15	We didn't fool the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u16	They had no say in the programme on the subject, nor did they present any solution while they were in the government! They voted against PREVPAP — we cannot forget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we have results. This structural and unique process in recent years is allowing to recognize and regularize situations that have been to be resolved for years or decades. The State is clearly setting an example of people's valorization, putting them first, ensuring the promotion of decent and stable work. This process is, of course, complex, given the universe of people and the different types of situations we are dealing with and evaluating. In order to ensure strict and full transparency in the analysis of all situations, 16 two-party evaluation committees were set up in 15 government areas. at this time, 11 evaluation committees have completed the work, being five in activity. So far, the unfavorable opinions refer to situations that did not require regularization, or in which people had, in some way, their situation resolved by another way or because they were temporary situations and not permanent needs. So far, competitions have already been launched for 20 126 workers to regularise their situations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] of the situations analyzed, up to now, 74% had a favourable opinion for integration. these are excluded from those persons who already had permanent employment contracts or were not employed in the time period defined by law for the admission requirement. The Government is fully committed to speeding up the analysis of the cases and to finalizing all those in progress. I take advantage to say that, also with this concern of acceleration and completion of all processes, in relation to RTP, 50 new processes have been approved this week, which makes 180 favorable opinions with full approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is clearly a complex, structural process and of the greatest historical importance for the country. Therefore, now that we are reaching its conclusion, it is essential that all be mobilised to ensure that we are aligned with this common objective, which is that of valuing workers. I also take this opportunity to say that, in the context of measures to promote the integration of workers and the conversion of contracts to end-of-work in the private sector, the Government launched the Convert More Programme, which needed to strengthen this week, since we already have 14,300 workers who applied for the conversion of contracts to permanent contracts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our commitment is therefore a global one of people's appreciation, and that is what we are working on. It is important that it is not at the end of this complex process that the merit of something that has to be proud of all who are working in it is called into question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u17	Mr Minister, the Bureau records the registration of four Members of the EB, the CFP and the Greens to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u18	I will respond to everyone at the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u19	First of all, to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the programme for regulating precarious links in the State is a programme of which the Left Block, of course - we have already said - is proud, as it exists by pressure from the Left Block. We remember that in 2015 this process of regularization was not even in the Socialist Party program.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u21	I was, I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u22	I wasn't in the government program!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u23	So what is in issue here is a program of which we all pride ourselves on the left. This debate has to do with the procedural mistakes that are being made and that have left thousands of workers in limbo so far. And we have concrete questions to ask about two cases. Firstly, I refer to the trainees of PEPAC, where, in the case of health, the paradox that the CAB recognized these internship contracts as precarious, however, according to the Ministry of Health, they do not have qualifications to compete for their job—because it is already their job! This does not even comply with the law of PREVPAP. But I am also referring to the case of justice, in which the decision not to integrate the trainees of their CAB after the non-recognition of the DGJ ( Directorate-General for the Administration of Justice) of the use of trainees to supply human resources was not reversed, although some trainees had been hired through other precarious links a few months after the end of the internship. Therefore, it is up to these people to see their bond recognized, because they meet the requirements of the law and because they cannot continue recourse to precarious links as are the stages. But an absolutely screaming case is that of the IEFP, in which PREVPAP presents an incomprehensible process for anyone. In the rest of the public service, vacancies were opened for the worker who had been considered a permanent necessity, but in the IEFP version there are twice as many candidates in relation to the vacancies to be filled and the candidates are still subject to a selection process, leaving less than half of those who have met the conditions to apply. Therefore, this means that the majority will be out of bound to state frames, but the form of recruitment that will occur is not yet clear. On these two cases, the government needs to clarify the mistakes that are happening. To date, these workers have not yet had a clear response either from the CAB, or from the responsible entities, or from the Government. Mr Minister, the question that we put to you on these two cases is the following: when will the solution finally be solved? [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Edite Estrela]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u24	Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Communist Party of Portugal, I should like to congratulate the workers of the RTP who are attending the debate, but also those who are at the door of the Assembly of the Republic and all those who have been in various struggles at various times, on defending their jobs, their rights and their right to a permanent link in the fight against precariousness. RTP workers with precarious links and effective and rights ties are side by side, and this is a situation that has to be effectively corrected. Mrs. Minister spoke here about RTP. The reality is that at RTP there were 404 workers who enrolled in PREVPAP, but the numbers that have been pointed out for the situations that are already resolved, those who are still waiting for approval by the Ministry of Finance and even those who are waiting for final integration do not make these 404 workers who every day guarantee the functioning of public television in our country. These are the permanent needs of the RTP, which must have their situation resolved, and the numbers mentioned here are far from responding to the problem of meaning every day by these workers. The question that we have left you is this, Mrs Minister : what is the answer you have to give to these workers, who continue every day to ensure the permanent service of the RTP, but who have a precarious link, less salary, less stability in their lives and fewer rights than the rest of the workers, creating a huge injustice situation that effectively needs to be resolved? What is the answer that the Minister has to give them? And what is the answer you have to give to the IEFP trainers as well?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u27	Even to finish, Madam President, in relation to IEFP workers, there is indeed a reality of 700 trainers with a favorable opinion, but who will not see their regularized working situation, despite the work they play being considered a permanent necessity and to have a recognizedly precarious link, including by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, which is not corresponding to regularization of their link. Mrs Minister, what is the Government's response to the workers of RTP and IEFP? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u28	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u29	Mr President, Mrs Minister, it was precisely for the State to be able to give the example that, in the past legislature, has moved forward, and well, for PREVPAP. It happens that when the program has been completed long ago, things continue to unfold. For this reason, the Greens bring a number of questions to the Minister. First of all, we would like to realize when the process will definitely be completed. As we know, it should have been a long time ago, but we are still facing daily information from precarious workers who are aware of their problems. There are still processes, by type, there are approved processes that are waiting for you to know not well about what or who. And yet, the workers continue to hang and with their life suspended. Mr. Minister, the state has to set an example. Be workers of RTP, be workers of the National Health Service, of education, of social security, of IEFP, of IPMA, of the National Scientific and Technological System (SCTN ) or of any other public service, if they respond to permanent needs, they must have an effective link. Madam Minister, the most unusual and surprising thing is that the President of the PreVPAP Coordinator Commission has announced the closure of the Commission itself as if the problems were all solved, but they are not. As we all know, there are problems to be solved, particularly with education technicians, with workers from LNEC and RTP, where 43 workers have not yet seen any outcome in their processes. There are also problems to solve dozens of former trainees who have not been included in the tables two years after having submitted their proceedings in PREVPAP, and this is a more serious case because these workers, for those who completed their internship in December 2016, if no competition is opened until the end of this year, simply cease to be eligible to compete, even if they have a positive opinion by the two-party evaluation committee. There are therefore many problems to be solved in the context of PREVPAP. I therefore ask you: if there are still problems to be solved, how does the President of the Coordinator Commission announce the end of this programme? On the other hand, I would also like to know what concerns the government has developed after the Commission's announcement of closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u30	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u31	Mr President, the CFP wants, firstly, to leave a warm greeting to all workers in education, science, higher education, state laboratories who have been in the struggle for defence of what is the right to a permanent job, completely eliminating precariousness. Mrs. Minister, we would like to ask practical questions so as to solve and eliminate the precariousness for those who have lived their entire working life in the bamboo rope. When will the situation of all workers in the State Laboratories, notably the IPMA and the LNEC be regulated? I recall the shameful process, in particular the LNEC, in which the workers waited, about a year and a half, for the approval of their requirements. Many of them ran out of bags, many of them lost their jobs and got their situation unsolved. An urgent and determined response must be given to all workers in the State Laboratories. With regard to the question of higher education, how is it possible, Mr Minister, that, for example, a research scholarship 18 years ago, 10 of which in the IPMA, have seen its unwarranted request? How is it possible, for example, that a researcher subject to scholarships since 2007 at the Technical Higher Institute has received a negative opinion on his request? How is it possible that tens of researchers from the University of Porto have been rented out of regularization of precarious bonds by artisans who place them in private institutions without profit, which, in fact, are no longer than the University of Porto itself? How is this justified, Minister? How will the situation be resolved, in particular by the specialized technicians, many of them informed that they could not apply for the process of regulating precarious links and that they have therefore remained out of the way? They have this issue to solve, meet the permanent needs of the public school and there is not a single word for these cases. Mrs. Minister, the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precise Links in Public Administration is an opportunity that cannot be wasted to the limit of what exists and what needs to be done for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u32	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u33	In conclusion, Madam President, we would like to know what concrete, current and urgent measures the Government will take to ensure that all those who competed under PREVPAP have a fair and necessary response to their precarious situation and that all those who failed to compete with PREVPAP also have their opportunity to resolve the flagrant precariousness to which they are subject. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho, I would like to take this opportunity to greet the House, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as the honourable Members. Members of the Government, because when I went to chair the session recently, I did not do so to avoid interfering with the progress of the work. I would also like to inform you that the Minister will divide her response to requests for clarification with Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita. You have the floor to answer the requests for clarification, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u35	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of time has been put here which has taken a long time to examine these situations. The truth is we all know how complex the process is and how structural it is. And what we've been looking for is that it's the strictest, the most transparent and that covers as many situations as possible. This means that when together we approved PREVPAP, we identified all processes and how they would be triggered so as to ensure that space was given to try to frame as much situations as possible, ensuring that they would also be analyzed according to their specificity. Therefore, the two-party evaluation committees have analysed all situations. We know the complexity of many of them, because sometimes the workers themselves are in atypical situations, but the truth is, as we know, PREVPAP aims to solve the situations of people who are performing permanent needs functions and who have a precarious title, without legal framework. We know the variety of situations that exist in all ministries and what the two-party evaluation committees have done is, in addition to the analysis, at first of all, of all situations, give the opportunity to, at a second moment, even when there is an unfavorable first opinion, to be re-examined the situations with all the new elements that have been presented, in particular with great cooperation from the unions. Therefore, we have tried to get as much answers as possible, because our goal is common: we want to regulate as many situations as possible in relation to the legal framework, which, as has been said, and well, presupposes situations that are not covered by the law, that represent and respond to permanent needs and that have a precarious link. What happened was that, in some situations, and therefore were not admitted, some workers already had an indefinite employment contract, in some cases already recognized by the court, but were not part of the picture, let us say, of some public sector companies. That is what we are trying to resolve, with the Government's great commitment to speed up the process and to conclude, trying to cover as many situations as possible, which is the great common objective that we are mobilised. With regard to RTP, I would like to note that the evaluation committee has delivered its opinion in favour of 222 workers. The remaining ones are currently being evaluated at the pre-hearing venue, so the processes are being analyzed in the light of the elements that are presented. of the 222 that have been approved by either the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Finance, 180. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore leave this note here for all workers. What we're trying to do is regularize whenever the situation is proven. I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u36	But it has to be very fast, because the Minister has already run out of time she had. As he answered all the questions together, he had little time. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u37	Madam President, congratulations to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to respond quickly to some of the questions that have been raised. First of all, I would like to point out that the commitment to regularization of precarious workers in the State and to the progressive eradication of these situations in the Public Administration included the PS electoral programme. And I think this is the only difference I can have in relation to the intervention of Mrs Isabel Pires. As for the rest, I would like to point out that this is a historical process and that the IEFP is precisely an example of this historical process. For the first time, there is an integration of trainers into the IEFP, which has never existed in the last 30 years. And the rules are those which have been voted on in Parliament, which we greatly value because they have been voted together by the Socialist Party and the benches on its left. In fact, the rules, which have been voted on in Parliament, allow competitions to be opened for more than 500 trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. This is something of the greatest importance for the Institute and will allow the paradigm of hiring these trainers to change. We expect the processes to be completed in February next year and, of course, we are trying to ensure that those who have had favorable opinions but do not fit in the vacancies that have been defined as permanent needs can also have a term-resolute work contract to precisely ensure that the question of their specificity as trainers of the IEFP is preserved. As regards the other questions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u38	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u39	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying only this: the Minister has answered cross-cuttingly several of the questions that have been raised. The compromise we have left here is that of the government's commitment to the speedy resolution of these processes. This commitment has already allowed 20 000 open competitions, and there will be more. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u40	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u41	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government : First of all, I would like to leave a special greeting to the Minister for having reconsidered her coming to this Parliament to face this debate. We understand your reasons, but it is indeed a black spot that the Minister will have to face today in Parliament. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no memory, in the history of the country, of a government that has so promised the workers and so little has done for them. We are faced with a debate scheduled by the Left Block that does not go through an act because if this programme of integration of precarious workers failed it is also due to the Left Block and all the parties that supported the former Government, the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party has always defended the fight against job insecurity, being this very explicit commitment in our electoral programme, presented to the Portuguese, as well as in our action as a government at the time. The official public employment data allow us to compare the last quarter of the PSD / CDS government in 2015 with the last quarter of the Socialist Party Government : we found that the future contracts increased from 9, 7% to 10, 8%. The Socialist Party has promised to reduce and end the precariousness, but instead, it does not eliminate it, it increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u42	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u43	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this programme, which aimed at the integration of workers with precarious links until 31 December 2018, began by creating expectations for about 116 000 workers identified in a report submitted by the Government, and of these the scope was shortening, so it was 31 957 workers who submitted the request. from obtaining the favourable opinion until the opening of the competition and then until the integration of the worker goes a long way and for the great majority of workers has not been or will be concrete. The announcement of this program in 2016, which created expectations for thousands of workers and their families, today is not a real frustration. A frustration for trainees, for fellow workers, for researchers, for social security lovers, for beneficiaries of employment-inclusion contracts, for future contractors, for green receipt providers working in the various bodies, for trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, of the Coordination and Regional Development Committees, of hospitals, schools, RTP, Lusa, just a few as an example. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has always said that it thought and would make it different. The PSD thought and would do different because the program required accounts made, required accounts on the budgetary impact of the measure and this was never presented. The PSD thought and would make different because the program required a general X-ray of all public administration services...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u44	But you didn't do anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u45	... and a reallocation of human resources, because there are services that, as a result of changes over the decades, would be able to dispense workers to areas where there is more shortage. The PSD thought and would make different because the program required to be accompanied by a real reform of the Public Administration,... [[PS laughter.]] ... modernisation of services and more appreciation and training of all employees of the Public Administration. In the communiqué issued yesterday, the government, in its juggling style, will seek out the efforts of the authorities, will look for local power numbers in the integration of precarious workers to deceive, wanting to show the success of the programme as a whole, when we know that these numbers do not enter into the implementation of the central administration, whose execution rate is very low after one year of the programme deadline. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Socialist Party does not know how to respond to the chaos that it has created in public services, particularly in the National Health Service, in schools, in transport, in courts, in prisons, in the shops of the citizen. There is something that the Socialist Party has never lost its way, in fact it will never lose its way: hiding reality, hiding numbers and promising everything to everyone and, finally, failing to comply with the teachers, not meeting the superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy, not meeting doctors, nurses, security forces, prison guards. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you're protesting, but you have to listen. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, those who do not comply with the workers do not comply with the Portuguese in general either. I will finish this speech in the same way as I did, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the history of the country, there is no memory of a government that has promised the workers so much and has done so little for them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u46	He applied for clarification, Mr Fernando José.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u47	Mr President, on 26 April 2019, Mrs Carla Barros, referring to this Programme, said that it was « a huge political propaganda », « a very strong file of the Socialist Party's union with the Left Block and the CFP », but that it could not be said to be « a very strong and credible dossier with the workers, to whom you promised their integration by the end of 2018 and which has not yet happened ». Mr Adam Silva then said: "That is true! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Yeah, we say it's not true, we say it's a lie! The Socialist Party has fought this scourge that has been dragged into Public Administration for several years. The solution was brought into effect by the Socialist Party with the support of the left. In four years, the Socialist Party has promoted various measures to combat precariousness, including this programme, which has already ensured the regularisation of more than 20 000 workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u48	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u49	Mrs. Member, what about the PSD? What about the PSD? What does the PSD think?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u50	Didn't you hear?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u51	PSD and CDS voted against! The PSD and the CDS voted against and, in a bad time of memory for the Portuguese, the PSD and CDS government transformed the leaders of the Public Administration into bricks,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... forcing them, among their peers, to make choices on which they would integrate the blacklist of requalification and the blacklist of layoffs. This was the measure of the PSD Government and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u52	Leave the past and go to the future!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u53	I ask you to conclude, Mr Fernando José.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u54	Today, put on a boat, on a river that no one knows where it runs, the question that has to be asked is the following: has the PSD changed its mind? What is the PSD proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u55	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u56	We do not know one line — one line! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u57	To answer that, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to thank you for once again making my words and the PSD's words about the programme public. But in order to complete your intervention on the PSD history in relation to this Programme, let me also remind you of the numbers, which are not PSD, are public employment reports and are official data. Do you know what the numbers say, Mr? The figures say that if we compare the last quarter of the governance of the PSD/CDS with the last quarter of the governance of the Socialist Party, the precariousness—and I have already said it in my intervention—has gone from 9, 7% to 10, 8%. Sir, the numbers are not wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u59	What do you say now, Mr Fernando José?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u60	Precautionary increases with the Socialist Party! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u61	False! False!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u62	Tell me, honourable Member, how workers and Portuguese can believe in the intention of a government that creates a programme to combat precariousness and instead increases it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u63	20 000 workers! You in four years, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u64	But let me still tell you what the PSD thinks about this. You have explained in part what the PSD thinks, but now let me tell you why the PSD did not follow this programme in particular. In addition to giving evidence of the fight against precariousness in our government action — including, we have again reinforced this fight against precariousness in our electoral programme — we could never follow a programme of integration of precarious workers into the state with the confusion and the lack of transparency and rigour that this programme has caused. Mr President, the Minister, at all costs, is here today—we were not counting on her as well as other members of the government, but tell me this: are we discussing the success of the integration programme for precarious workers? Are we discussing success?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u65	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u66	Mr Member, we are not discussing the success of the Programme, we are discussing the fact that you have frustrated thousands of workers and promised to integrate precarious workers without ever looking at the whole of the Public Administration, without ever facing this process in a real reform of the Public Administration...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u67	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u68	... and training and valorization of all employees. That's it, sir! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u69	Madam Member, I would ask you to pay attention to the warnings of the Bureau. When the President tells the honourable Member that she has to conclude, he must at least answer: 'I conclude now, Madam President'. For an intervention, Mrs Vera Braz of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u70	H.E. Mrs. President, Mrs. Ex-Mrs and Mrs. Members: Let me begin by congratulating the present — IEFP, RTP and IPMA officials, PEPAC trainees and all others — and give a word of confidence to all those who have not yet seen their processes completed. The fight against precariousness was and is a central combat that guarantees a more dignified society and that does not run out in a legislature. The Socialist Party and its Government have adopted a package of specific measures that have valued and trained the Public Administration in order to serve the country better. This appreciation of workers in public functions is reflected in the return of their professional dignity. If we want to have motivated workers, promoting their productivity and increasing the efficiency of the Public Administration, we will achieve it only through this dignification. The extended set of measures which has been adopted, such as the end of the requalification scheme, is thus justified. Yes, the PS refused to fire public officials! [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: we have rejected the 35 hours in public service, we have determined the end of cuts in wages and the payment of extraordinary hours. Yes, it was the PS that restored justice to public officials! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are also talking about the thawing of all Public Administration careers, which already have effects on workers' wages today. Yes, the PS assured us that today no career is frozen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] of these measures is also part of the Program for the Extraordinary Regularization of the Pre-Care Links in Public Administration. It is never more to remember that it is the second time that the PS assumes the role of regulating precariousness in the state. The Socialist Party, with the support of the left, but with the lead of the PSD and the CDS-PP, has already restored the legality to more than 20,000 workers... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u71	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u72	... that they were in a precarious situation, without an adequate legal bond and that they are now part of the Public Administration, and with the assurance that many more will come. We all knew that this was a complex and demanding process, but also, therefore, transparent and selective. Let us remember that evaluation committees participated not only by the government, but also by all services and trade unions. We have had nearly 6000 open competitions which corresponded to the regularization of the already mentioned 20 000 jobs. It is true that we would like this process to be completed, but it is also true that, if we still have several situations in re-evaluation in the evaluation committees, it is because it is our duty to hear each one of those to whom an unfavorable opinion has been given, which ultimately allows us to determine an opinion with rigour and justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u73	Get a better excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u74	For the Socialist Party, the most important is not only the path that has already taken, but also what continues to go through, through PREVPAP, the transformation of precarious links into permanent ties, and through all measures with which the Government daily strengthens the fight against precariousness and, at the end of the line, aims to improve the lives of thousands of civil servants of the Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u75	Mrs Vera Braz has a request for clarification of the PSD. Mr Cancela Moura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Vera Braz, the Socialist Party promised to end all precarious links until 31 December 2018. The intention was very good, but it did not happen that way, in an attempt and very poorly tested. [[PS protests.]] They said they wanted to end the precariouss, but instead of starting with the operational health and education assistants, they gave priority to those who were in the Ministry of the Presidency. [[PSD applause.]] They said they wanted to end the term contracts, but the waiting lists for consultations and surgeries in hospitals are at unacceptable levels. They said they wanted to end the green receipts, but the schools are still closing. They said they wanted the service services to finish, but in full digital age, citizens line up endless lines to get the citizen card. They said they wanted to end the IECs, but because of the data available in the process itself, the Ministry of Finance refused to regularise 80 % of the workers because they deserved a negative opinion of the protection. They said they wanted to combat precariousness, but the number of contracts over time—as has already been said and it is important to repeat—in the last quarter of the Socialist Party, it has grown almost 11%.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u78	Public services have never reached a level of such degrading quality. Shame! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u79	A constant contradiction between what the Government and the Socialist Party promise and fail to do and between what they say and do not do! [[PSD applause.]] PREVPAP was a huge misunderstanding, as large as the size of the government that recently took possession.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u81	Almost one year after the deadline, according to official numbers, not one fifth of the 116 000 workers have their situation regularized.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u82	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u83	I shall conclude, Madam President. In view of these evidence, the question is: what does the Socialist Party have to say to workers and to the country? Between accounting decisions, is it again the fault of Passos Coelho? There is one thing that is true for us: it will be easier for the Prime Minister to put a cow flying than for the country to believe in the Socialist Party's proposals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u84	In reply, Mrs Vera Braz from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand — and it is understandable — that the PSD would like to focus at this stage on the success of this Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I would like you to say this in front and in the eyes of the more than 20,000 workers who have seen their lives improved with this Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u86	Look at the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u87	We all know that it certainly wasn't with your help. The precarious ones, today, are being integrated, but with you they would have been fired. This is the reality, the purest reality! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: First of all, we would like to thank the Block on the Left for bringing such important issue to debate, either for reasons of justice or for a plan to combat job insecurity in the Public Administration. This debate is also important because it is linked to the challenge of rejuvenation of the Public Administration, considering that, according to recent data from the Directorate-General for Administration and Public Employment, between 2011 and 2018 there was an increase in the average age of public servants. As it is known, the ageing of the Public Administration must concern all public decision makers, under penalty one day we run the risk of having the triumph of a minimal logic, a State in such an aggravated way that it will never be able to fulfil the constitutional plan of pursuing the public interest that is assigned to it. This is, of course, due to cross-border policy options, supported by successive governments, in a sense of de-investment in the Public Administration and an increase in a logic of flight to the private rather than promoting shared responsibility. There were budgetary restrictions on the establishment of new links, imposed during the period of validity of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Portuguese Government and the troika, which in fact enhanced the emergence in abundance of inadequate links, with the most various forms, for the exercise of precarious functions corresponding to permanent needs. Labour relations were impaired and protection in unregulated employment, thus devaluing professionals with the reduction of wages, which was reflected in the quality of jobs. contrary to what they postulate the visions that advocate a State intervention park, deregulation does not solve the market segmentation problems at all. However, the period between 2015 and 2019 was not characterized by a total and pressing reversal of the internal devaluation process. The latest data from the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics show that the visiting teachers or assistants today represent the majority of the public policy higher education faculty with a contract in time, i.e. more than 52 %, being lower in public university higher education in this case than 31 %. According to data from the Scientific Employment Observatory, only 10 teachers and 9 researchers were approved under the Stimulation Program for Scientific Employment. What, however, does the government have to say about this? What will you say to these teachers and researchers who were excluded from PREVPAP? What measures will be undertaken to ensure the linkage of these professionals and thus to ensure a fair and consistent work situation with the tasks performed? Oh, my God! In turn, the trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training assure the valences in the vocational training of the IEFP and are also a permanent necessity. Within the framework of PREVPAP, there may be regulation of the linkage of only 507 IEFP trainers, with 100 hours in each of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. And in view of this, we can point out that there were 1199 favourable opinions of IEFP trainers, who are considered permanent necessity and who maintain, however, an inadequate bond, and that the IEFP itself, in 2017, in its permanent needs table, stated that it permanently needed 807 trainers. However, the majority will be out of this Programme. These numbers are a clear demonstration that the number of vacancies available under PREVPAP has been manifestly inadequate in the face of needs. Will the Government then be available to monitor measures to ensure the integration of IEFP trainers in a more consistent way with the principles underlying PREVPAP, i.e. integration of people and not opening vacancies? Do you accept the possibility of opening extraordinary vacancies that integrate all the trainers who have obtained a positive opinion? According to the PEPAC - Precarious State Movement, there are dozens of trainees who completed the course in December 2016 and who, having already obtained a positive opinion from their Bipartite Evaluation Commission, are waiting for integration two years and, if their competition is not open by the end of the year, are no longer eligible to compete with PREVPAP. Is it unacceptable to put these trainees in such a state of uncertainty, so we are all waiting to see whether or not the government intends to take steps to regulate these timely situations? Still within the framework of the Programme of Professional Internships in Central Administration, we have also received data demonstrating that, in the Ministry of Health, the paradoxical situation of higher health technicians, such as psychologists, nutritionists and dietists, who had PEPAC stages, have had a positive opinion from the Bipartite Evaluation Committee and the Ministry of Health, however, understand that these trainees do not have qualifications to compete with the one who was their job. What, then, do the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government intend to do to resolve this paradox? Finally, and without prejudice to the other professionals who deserve the attention of the government, we still have the case of RTP, and there are to integrate 46 outsourcing workers, indicating that they are a permanent necessity of the company, and that they have been plunged by the Bipartite Assessment Board. Other 104 workers are still awaiting the signing of the Ministries. What initiatives does the Government intend to take during this legislature to ensure that these links are regulated rapidly? Will it be available or not to move forward in this area and allow a reassessment of the processes of these 46 workers rejected by the Joint Committee and to review, once and for all, the actual needs for the regularization of the deficiencies in our country? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u90	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security: The Programme for the Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration is a historic process. The example of the public school, where, for years and with particular intensity in the period of the troika and the PSD government, the operational assistants had no future contracts, were, yes, unemployed working for food change, and perhaps this explains why the term contracts decreased during the time of the PSD Government, the specialized technicians—psychologists, therapists, Portuguese gestal interpreters—were fired in the summer, so that they would then go to auction in September, and realize in which school they could stay. To these, the PSD never cheated, because the PSD always said, always made it clear that he wanted them precarious. These workers never had anything or anyone until PREVPAP existed. Therefore, PREVPAP is thus a historical process that ends only when it is completed. This means that competition must be opened for all processes that have been approved, because all these workers have a bond and must have a bond. But even when everyone has a link, including all the specialist technicians awaiting a contest, PREVPAP will not be finished, because PREVPAP says these workers are entitled to a career and, being civil servants, this means they have the right to resume their career, according to the time they worked as precarious, illegally,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u93	...cause of the state and not yours, for decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u95	Even after that, we will still have to deal with a much greater problem, which is that of the precarious culture of the Public Administration, and face the reality that there are new barriers to reaching the public school - specialized technicians - the same ones that will be fired in June to go to the auction in September. What is important to ensure is that, if we need to repeat the PREVPAP — which has changed the lives of thousands of people and has given the public services its most precious asset, which are stable and linked human resources, and that it is worth the proposal of the Left Block and the agreements of the last Parliament — there is no doubt, Mrs Minister, that it will be disgraced and disgraced by this Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today, in this thematic debate, which is one of the first we have in this Parliament, the PREVPAP, the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in the Public Administration, which began in 2016 and for which I still remember, at the time, if it was said that it would be completed soon that year. Well, we continue here and the truth is, although the Socialist Party says it would very much like everything to be done and done, we are still discussing it. But I would like to start this thematic debate with a previous point, which has to do with the importance of combating precariousness. Labour precariousness is a problem that affects many generations of Portuguese and, above all, affects new generations of Portuguese. And if this is true in the Public Administration, it is no less true in the private initiative and throughout the world of work. Therefore, I think that more important and more rigorous than we start by discussing the Public Administration would be to start by discussing the whole world of work. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will never discuss the public administration well if we continue to consider a world apart from the private initiative. And if it is not acceptable that in the State there are situations that the State itself does not accept in the private initiative, the opposite is also unacceptable. But the truth is that the Public Administration has not been discussed on an equal footing with the private initiative. We continue to have substantial differences between employees of the private initiative and employees of the Public Administration, particularly in terms of linkage and working hours, but also wages. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The truth is that, in this thematic debate, the choice was to discuss, first, the Public Administration and then leave the working world in general, the working world of workers in general and the working world of Portuguese in general. And this is a distinction that the CDS does not share. from our point of view, the Public Administration is not a separate body, the rights of these workers must be the same as those working on the private initiative, just as the duties should be the same. [[Protests of BE Members.]] The gentlemen. Members have chosen these workers as priority and others as less priority. It's your choice, but it's a choice we have the right not to share. in the same way, we could be here discussing public services and the deep degradation of the state of public services, which is seen in hospitals, schools, public transport,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u98	No workers there is no Public Administration!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u99	... which is seen in the adventure in which it became to take, for example, the citizen card. It makes sense to discuss this, when the Public Administration is discussed, but for you, this debate is a priority, the state of public services is later. It is also a choice, and a choice which is a political choice, which they have the right to do, cannot pretend that they do not. Moreover, I would like to recall here some facts about precariousness in the Public Administration. And, for example, I would like to remember the term contracts in the Public Administration, i.e. contracts that are not without term and therefore end at the end of a certain time. Now, in 2015, there were about 72,000 term contracts, paragraph 4. the quarter of 2018, there were about 72,000 contracts in term. This means that these contracts, which many call « precarious », have not decreased, contrary to propaganda. Both in the last quarter of 2015 and in the last quarter of 2018, the percentage of final contracts in the State was around 10 % and the percentage of fixed-term contracts around 75 %. These percentages, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, despite your propaganda, they have neither diminished nor changed. If we see data from services in the State, so-called « green receipts », the situation is similar : paragraph 2. the quarter of 2015, existed about 22 000 ; no 2. the quarter of 2018 also existed 22 000. These are the facts far beyond the thematic debates, the propaganda and the outsiders, and these are the facts which, perhaps, it was important to change, before they were so much devoted to thematic debates and proclamations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u100	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP values the achievement of each effective link by each of the workers who were performing permanent functions with precarious links in the Public Administration, but if we do so and if it has long been urgent to make a program of regularization of precarious links, we cannot also compact with the shortcomings and injustices that occurred under PREVPAP. And in education, higher education, science, PREVPAP is far from being given as completed. In State Laboratories, in research units, in schools, in colleges, there is a sea of precariousness. We must respond to each of the workers with a precarious link, not only by taking advantage of PREVPAP up to its limit, as by continuing all the necessary regularizations, but also by doing so, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, one more thing is to eliminate all the tools that provide precarious recruitment. And, in the Public Administration, there are many cases, such as: the Statute of the Research Fellowship, instead of contracts; post-doctoral scholarships, which were supposed to no longer exist, but here they are to perpetuate, once again, precariousness;...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u102	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u103	... the non-remunerated teaching in higher education; the proliferation of false invited teachers; the hiring, year after year, of specialized technicians, who see their rights suspended during the summer, but, at the beginning of the following school year, is there, return to schools, because they are in fact permanent needs. What we need to ask, in this debate, is: after all, how many workers still have their situation to regulate? How many have your contracts yet been made? How many have seen your denied demands? How many are still in the Public Administration, despite all this process? How many were released? How many teachers continue to teach the bulla and how many more are there now? How many new research grants were held to meet permanent needs?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u105	What will be done to all those who have lost their ties, in an obstinate dismissal, done at the end of this process, such as many of the LNEC researchers?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u106	Mrs. Deputy, you've wasted your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u107	I will finish, Madam President. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the government's warm intervention in this debate does not imply that PREVPAP has ended and that it has ended precariousness in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u108	Morna? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u109	It did not end and lack political will on the part of successive governments to solve the structural causes of precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u110	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u111	I will finish, Madam President. The CFP will be alongside the workers of education, higher education, science, public administration — all workers! — in the fight against precariousness, to ensure the right to an effective bond and to combat the structural tools and causes which achieve it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u112	For an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the University of Porto, the government was right to Reitoria and did not even assess the cases of hundreds of precarious researchers. They said at the time that these researchers, and I quote Mr. Rector, "came from a parallel universe to that of the University of Porto." They sign on behalf of the University of Porto, they work in buildings of the University of Porto, the University of Porto collects the praise of the results of its scientific investigations, but, at the time of taking on the responsibilities, the government and the rhetoric say "we do not know these people". At the University of Algarve, Mr. Rector, half a year after having approved most cases of precarious researchers, asked for the reassessment of his cases. After this reassessment, he voted against the overwhelming majority of cases that he had previously voted in favour. And the government, horrifyingly, went back. When Mr Rector voted in favour, the Government voted in favour; when Mr Rector voted against, the Government voted against. At the University of the Azores, there is a problematic case. I do not know whether the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of the Sea can solve the situation. It is that, at this university, there is a set of biology researchers who study—and I say -in a prosaic way—the whales and the biosphere. Mr. Rector said they're not from the University of Azores, he said they're doing research in Coimbra. I will repeat: they study the whales and the biosphere and Mr. Rector said they are from the University of Coimbra. And the government said so too. I wanted to ask the government if there are whales in the world. [[BE's laughs.]] It's possible that there is! It is very possible that there are whales in Mondego! These researchers have been at the University of Azores for years studying whales and biosphere and, in fact, have no link with the University of Azores for which they work. That is why it is strange, it is ridiculous that Mr. Rector and the Retoria of the University of the Azores have that position and it is shameful that the Government should accompany her. It's shameful for the government to follow you! In fact, what the government has done in the CAB has not been much more than being an official of the will of the Board of Rectors and higher education and science have become a real offshore of labour rights. PREVPAP is at the door, the Law of the Republic is at the door, more than 90 % of the demands of precarious researchers and teachers working on the table have been plummeted. It's an organized boycott and the government is responsible for it. But this case at the University of Azores is not over yet. These researchers did not give up fighting for their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u114	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u115	I will finish, Madam President. The Left Block here will be to ensure, in each of these cases, that justice is done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u116	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members : I would say that it is extraordinary that, after all the effort made, if you continue to want to ignore the work that we have done, in the previous legislature, in the fight against precariousness in the field of science. As the Socialist Party has never had the pretension or the sovereign belief that the fight against precariousness is won, the Socialist Party cannot accept the minimization of this effort and much less the minimization of the results. About PREVPAP in science, there are two constant misconceptions. The first mistake is to believe that PREVPAP, oriented towards general careers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u118	No, no! It's written that it's for special careers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u119	Special careers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u120	... would, by itself, solve the problem of precariousness in the sector. That is precisely why the Socialist Party, in fact, went beyond PREVPAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is also the second misconception, that of trying to reduce the sector's precariousness only to PREVPAP or, in other words, to only 25% of all the results we have achieved in the fight against precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u121	Then you can go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u122	He spoke as if there had been no change to the scientific research stock exchange regime, to end all the scholarships that had nothing to do with the research, or as if the Estimulum Programme had not been set up for the Scientific Employment, which had turned thousands of scholarships into contracts. I would say more: he spoke as if, under PREVPAP, the situation of 1600 workers in the field of science had not been regulated. Yesterday, he said that 97% of the cases had been rejected; today he said 90%.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u123	I said "more than 90 %"!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u124	I don't know what you're going to say for the week, but it seems to me that it's still here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He also spoke as if 5200 doctors and researchers had not been hired since 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u125	Out of the race! Twenty years in stock exchange!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u126	The truth is only one: no government has done so much to dignify labour relations in the field of science. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So they don't care what turns they take. The truth is that the PS is where it has always been: alongside the workers and the dignity of scientific careers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u127	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Labour and Vocational Training, Miguel Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first word is to reiterate the commitment and commitment of the Government to try to ensure that PREVPAP meets all its objectives. With our confidence in the process, in the rules we have approved here and in the work done in partnership with the unions in the CAB, we also reiterate that this is a process involved and with bodies of appeal. Therefore, we are fully confident that it will meet its objectives, as it is already being fulfilled, and will not allow the remaining problems or difficulties to be used to minimize the facts and achievements of PREVPAP. I am now centred on the intervention of the opposition benches, in particular on the right hand side, on the PSD. Mrs Carla Barros and Mr José Cancela Moura, the interventions that have brought here, not by chance, have a very similar tone to those we have heard when it comes to employment and work issues. That is, they reveal a deep discomfort, a deep discomfort.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u129	The problem is numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u130	We know that the PSD, whether in the public or in private, does not have a word to say about precariousness, does not have a measure against precariousness and, therefore, there is a complete discomfort and discomfort which, once again, has manifested itself here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In private, they are due to deregulation and total precariousness. In the state, politics, this, we know well: it is by dismantling public services and by requalification processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u131	These measures are state, they are not PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u132	In social security alone, thousands of workers were disbursed, and it was the PS government that reverted this process. Therefore, we do not admit, we do not accept that they seek to confuse and fight the Portuguese, when they are against any process of combating precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, as far as PREVPAP is concerned, they voted against, and it was not by chance.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u133	Thank you for explaining why!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u134	They voted against because they are against regularization, because they are against strengthening public services, because they are against quality labour relations, in the Public Administration and in the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carla Barros.]] They say they'd make a difference, but they never say what and we know very well why. What would they do differently? What measures would they take? We have not heard one, nor today, nor throughout this whole process! What the honourable Member has called — and I am very sorry she did — we call it a medal. 20 000 invitations to tender — 20 000 invitations to tender! — in the context of PREVPAP, and more will be followed. This is the black spot that the PSD here points. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, I would like to conclude my speech by saying the following: in the face of any difficulty that may exist, any obstacle to a process that we knew would be complex, we have a certainty for ourselves and that we know that the Portuguese share, which is that all we can do and continue to do in PREVPAP will be the opposite of what the right will do if it were in power or had a majority in this House. If the right hand were in power, it would not only integrate zero people into the Public Administration, as it would deal with the worsening of precariousness in the public and in the private, and would not allow the State, as an employer, to become also a reference in the market, and that is a vision with which we cannot agree. The State, as an employer, also has a duty to create benchmarks of labour relations for the quality market so that it can also influence the market, in addition to the measures it is taking. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Therefore, we well know what right-wing policy would be: zero integrations, more precariousness, dismantling of public services. PREVPAP is our answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u135	We are now moving to the closing stage of this debate. To this end, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: Whether through term contracts, either through temporary employment contracts, or through false green receipts, or through any other mechanism, the fact is that precarious work has threatened to take account of the reality of work in our country. Portugal continues at the summits in terms of working precariousness and is a reality that has gained weight and has assumed increasing proportions, especially with the policies, measures and options of the PSD/CDS-PP government, which, in fact, did not hide its intention to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. We are talking about policies that have sought to generalize the precariousness and an intentional or unintended effort to transform precariousness into the rule of labour relations. And, therefore, a serious fight is called for against the serious problem that precariousness is in our country, until the rise in precariousness increases unemployment, which means that, in combating precariousness, we are also fighting unemployment. Even more: precarious workers have lower wages than others, because, in fact, precarious work is always a factor of discrimination and condemns the worker to complete deprotection. In other words, precariousness, which mainly affects women and young people, is socially unfair and degrading and affects the country itself in its productivity and development. In this regard, it is always appropriate to remember that, when we talk about precarious work, we talk about working relationships outside the law. We're talking about dealing with the rights of those who work, we're talking about the violation of fundamental rights, we're talking about the degradation of working conditions and we're talking about the increase in levels of exploitation. The worst thing is that it was the State itself to set an example in the area of precariousness. This example, as we know, has gained another dimension with the PSD/CDS-PP government, which has put thousands of people working in hospitals, health centres, schools and so many other public services, responding to permanent needs but with absolutely precarious links. False green receipts, term contracts, temporary employment contracts, employment-inclusion contracts, everything has served to prolong the agony of those who work, everything has served to undermine unemployment statistics and to deceive numbers. In view of this scenario, it is important to restore the truth in labour relations and, above all, it is necessary for the State to set an example. It was precisely for this purpose that the Greens, with all their efforts, followed the development of the Program for the Extraordinary Regularization of the Pre-Careous Links in Public Administration. However, at a time when the programme should have been completed long ago, things continue to unfold, and many of the problems have not been solved. We talk about processes that have not yet been approved; we talk about processes that have been approved for better days, that nobody knows if they will come or when they arrive; we talk about special education technicians who still expect to see their problems solved; we talk about the workers of IEFP, IPMA or RTP, who continue their lives suspended, and we talk about the dozens of former trainees who have not been integrated into the staff frameworks two years after having submitted their request under PREVPAP and even having a positive opinion on the part of their two-party evaluation committee. The problems remain, therefore, and the Government's explanations are missing. on our part, on the part of the Greens Ecological Party, we have maintained what we have always said since the beginning of the PREVPAP process : the state has to set an example and definitely end with lies and fraud in labour relations, because if workers respond to the permanent needs of services they have to have an effective link and without anyone remaining outside. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u137	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Knowing the injustice of unstable and non-dignifying labour situations, the NAP has been and will always be with those who advocate that every precarious link corresponding to a permanent need must correspond to a permanent bond. We are talking about a situation of elementary justice for citizens and citizens who, under very fragile conditions, serve the public interest and devote themselves to a noble service, representing and giving face to the Portuguese state. We therefore supported the consolidated text which gave rise to the law which laid down the terms of the regularization provided for under PREVPAP. We were also in favour of draft resolutions which, at the later stage of the previous legislation, recommended to the Government the clarification of PREVPAP, the inclusion of people with different literary qualifications and the regularization of the status of social security lovers. However, the deadline for the conclusion of PREVPAP has been to derail, on account of the responsibility of the Government, and remains unresolved, different professionals from all State institutions. In our intervention in this debate we focus on different professionals who find themselves in worrying situations, such as teachers and researchers in higher education. Science and research must be recognized, valued, supported and this is also done with decent working conditions. Another case we brought here is that of the trainers at the service of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, because, as the Portuguese Association of Trainers warned us, the way this procedure was opened, in this case, points to a logic of filling vacancies, when what should be involved in PREVPAP would be the regularization of people's ties and giving real response to existing needs. Today too, we do not forget young people who often see as a positive solution a stage in public administration and who have been prevented from competing with PREVPAP or have been told that they did not have the qualifications needed to compete — imagine! — the one who was even his job, thus losing confidence in the Public Administration and leaving the way out of his experience with our State. And of course we could not forget the public television officials held by the Commission or those waiting for the support of the government. There was, and there are, high expectations for PREVPAP and we can say that it was a positive step, but much more is missing. We have managed to combat the segmentation of the labour market, regulating it, which clearly runs counter to the idea that segmentation is reduced by deregulation, but social dialogue is essential to counter escalation and social conflict. Permanent recruitment is essential when it is justified and we know that it is justified. We also know that it makes no sense for both sides to maintain fragile ties. A more ambitious strategy is needed. The State needs to redeign public work and restore the confidence of its employees. If we want a public service with the dignity it deserves, it is in fact necessary a more ambitious strategy for PREVPAP, to be remembered as something positive in our history.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u139	I ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputies, you have already wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u140	I shall conclude, Madam President. In fact, we all know that there are no cows flying or whales in the world, but clearly there is an elephant in this room, which cannot be ignored: the precarious in the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u141	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality of precariousness in the public sector and in the private sector, its size, its harmful consequences in the lives of workers and their families does not appear by chance, results from a political option of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS to pay less wages, impose more hours of work and replace workers with rights by workers without rights. Also in the Public Administration the dimension of this problem is inseparable from the responsibility of successive governments that have chosen, years at a time, to use workers with precarious links to respond to permanent needs in the various public services. In schools, in higher education institutions, in science, in health, in culture, in social security services, in justice, in the business sector of the State, in so many sectors of Public Administration, thousands of workers have ensured their operation for several years, and many decades, in a daily reality of uncertainty and precariousness. PREVPAP, which we talk about here today, came, yes, with many years of delay. Let us remember that the last process of regularizing precarious links in the Public Administration took place 20 years ago, which means that thousands and thousands of workers have been in a huge situation of injustice, with less wages, less rights and more instability. PREVPAP is an important tool for combating precariousness, it cannot be wasted. It must be a starting point and not a point of arrival. The fight against precariousness, its eradication and the guarantee of employment with rights must be a daily practice in public services, workplaces, and also in the private sector. If there are workers who have achieved their integration in this process, which we greatly appreciate, there are also many workers who still have their situation to be resolved and that is an unacceptable resolution. The successive delays in the implementation of PREVPAP are not acceptable, as the PCP has also denounced, as we have also denounced the blackmail and repression that have been done about many workers who have competed with PREVPAP, confirming even the fairness of the PCP proposal not to place upon the workers the burden of proof of their precarious link. We also reported delays in the operation of CABs and the lack of human resources to ensure speed in the process, or the lack of information to many workers about the situation of each process, as well as delays in the opening of tenders and the completion of contracting processes, or the negative response to workers who effectively respond to the permanent needs of services. We also reported that, even after the start of PREVPAP, many services continued to hire workers with precarious links. It cannot be said that if you want to combat precariousness and then insist on hiring workers with precarious ties. In all this process, the CFP intervened with proposals leading further to the fight against precariousness, such as when we proposed that all workers with precarious links that respond to permanent needs could participate in this process of regularization, which was, in fact, rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. But this is a battle that is not over. There are employees of the Public Administration who continue to live in suspense because they are waiting for the opening of the competition, because they have had a negative opinion, and yet they are every day precise at the workplace, because they have not applied, but continue on a daily basis to ensure the functioning of the different public services, or even because they have been hired after PREVPAP has begun.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u143	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u144	The functions are always there; the job too. There is no effective link between workers. This is not a technical, legislative or legal problem, it is a political problem! It is a problem of the government's political choice that either assumes the integration of all workers who respond to permanent needs or, therefore, will be complicit and responsible for the worsening of precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u145	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u146	You need to stay out of the way. Labour stability must be guaranteed to all these workers who, for years, many of them have been ensuring the functioning of the country's public services. Workers are not disposable and this is a struggle that the CFP will not abandon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u147	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block celebrates each of the 20 126 binding processes. We are proud of the law that we have done, I beat ourselves for it, we discuss it in the specialty, we have been the voice of the requirement for it to be fulfilled, on the contrary, on the right, which never wanted it, that it was against the law and that it does not realize what is happening. We welcome that this debate and the demonstration of the workers of the RTP today have been the necessary push for Mr. Mário Centeno to sign the approval, but we want to know how the cases not identified by the RTP will be resolved as permanent needs and when this process should have ended in May 2018. We warmly celebrate with the 270 lovers of social security their link to the state, but we do not forget those of the IPSS. We celebrate with the precariouss of the CHO (West Hospital Centre ) the recognition of your contract, but that is why we want your time of service to be recognized and entitled to your career. We are fighting for the inclusion of false trainees, who were not included in the Government's initial proposal, and therefore we do not accept that they continue to be excluded from PREVPAC in this process. We welcome the approval of applications in IPMA or LNEC, but also because of this we do not accept the grotesque maneuver that is currently under way, and without grounds, to review its inclusion in the research career or the recognition of its functions. We welcomed the specialized technicians when, in September, they began receiving the answers, but we want them to open their contests, and we are also pleased that there is finally a process of integration into the IEFP. But for that reason, after a process that has been paved up, in which the IEFP has failed to count the hours and took half a year to correct this issue, and in which it now takes as a criterion of curriculum evaluation a criterion that excludes more than half of the 1200 trainers who have had a positive opinion, we want to know, after all, how the 509 vacancies that have been opened will be filled. What will happen to the 693 IEFP trainers who don't fit these vacancies? Will it be acceptable, will it be possible to keep the false green receipts, after these trainers have a role signed by the government to say that this situation is irregular? Not on our part. We want there to be contracts. It is because we know the law that we have done and because we are proud of it that we are not or will be conjugated with rectors who boycott PREVPAP in higher education and science. We don't ignore the whale in the middle of the room, because, yes, sir. Members, the special careers were and are included in the regularization process and what is happening at this level is truly an unacceptable boycott. We do not accept, because we know the law and we are proud of it, that access to the documents of the precariouss who want to know where their process is. That is why, too, we demand that a protection mechanism provided for in the law be applied so that there is no one else who is bound by it, their employment situation being interrupted. It is because we know how we made this law, that we are proud, that we demand that the time of service be counted and that the workers be repositioned in their careers, after having seen their recognized bond. The Left Block today brought here the requirement that the concrete life of the precariouss have a response in time, the requirement that the law we made be complied with and not protected by the Finances, boycotted by leaders or delayed by the evaluation committees. We have brought here today the testimony of our commitment to the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u149	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u150	I will finish, Madam President. For our part — and here is our commitment — we will leave no one behind and, in this Parliament, as in the past, the fight against precariousness will be at the heart of our intervention. This is a democratic requirement of respect for those who work and we will not waste any opportunity to bring justice to workers who are entitled to a contract. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u151	Mr Isura Morais, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Combating precariousness was one of the main priorities announced by the previous Government, with the support of the entire left parliament. In the context of this fight, a survey of all procurement instruments used by public services was promoted, which was due to have ended in 2018. We are in late 2019 and precariousness in the Public Administration continues in the same place: little changed and the precariouss remain precarious. The numbers speak for themselves and the numbers are not PSD. Despite everything in the same, seven months ago, the Minister of Finance, in this House, solemnly informed the Portuguese that there was no delay in the State precarious programme. False! Today, past this time, and following a debate in this Parliament on this programme, we are again discussing why thousands of workers who have submitted the request to have their regular working situation have not yet received any answer. The people say: «It is better not to promise than to promise and miss». [[PSD applause.]] And the government has clearly failed what it has promised in this and other matters! Many of the 31 957 workers who have submitted their request still do not know what their future will be like. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u153	They don't even know, nor will they, of course, know, since there is very little information available. Some information was made available yesterday, on the eve of the debate, on the Government's website, in fact the same as was presented here by the Minister — to whom she too complied — but in the few reports made available on the PREVPAP website, about 80 % of the cases, in particular of the finances, were negative. It is not understood that key sectors in the provision of public services such as health, education, including vocational training and courts, for example, maintain such a significant precarious framework. Ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, a number of crucial questions have to be clarified in this debate. What will happen to workers who have obtained an unfavorable appearance? Will they continue to be precarious?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u154	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u155	Are you going to continue with ad eternal contract or will you have your contract terminated? Will they be replaced by new precariouss? And what about the fake green receipts? Where are the left parliamentary Members who were very concerned about the precariousness? Did the megaphones come down?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u156	We're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u157	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against precariousness is crucial for PSD, but we do not deceive workers. It is very important that there are credible, reasonable, enforceable and, above all, fair answers, but in the absence of such policies that at least a concrete answer is given and not only the promises of custom.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u158	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u159	I'm done now, Madam President. Despite the lack of response from the central administration, I want here to make a commendable reference to local administration, which, with its efforts and with the commitment and determination of the autarchs, has resolved, in an autonomous process, many of the precarious situations of its paintings.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u160	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u161	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is attentive and demands that the parties that spend their lives, repeatedly, create expectations in Portuguese, in an electoral manner, fulfill the promises they have made to the precariouss of the state. The Portuguese demand it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u162	Mr António Gameiro, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u163	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We welcome the present workers, precarious workers, absent persons and more than 20 000 workers who are already integrated, by competition, into the public service by hand of the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u164	Do PS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u165	In the last 25 years of democracy, and for the second time, it was by the hand of the PS that more than 20 000 precarious workers have been linked, and they will definitely be linked in the staff frameworks in which they perform their duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u166	It was nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u167	More than 20 000 workers who were on the bamboo line, in their professional and personal lives, in 2018 and 2019 obtained a definitive link to the Public Administration through a law of the authorship of the PS, negotiated in this Chamber, with the Left Block and with the PCP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u168	It wasn't PS's authorship!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u169	This is a successful program. This is a very successful program! We do not accept, in this Chamber, lessons in this matter, or on the right, which in 2015 wanted to fire on the black lists of public service, thousands and thousands of workers, or on the left, who at the same time seem to have sun in the air and rain in the nabal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This, sirs. Members, it is only because of the seriousness and high sense of justice that the former and the current PS government have put in the fight against precariousness in the Public Administration and the State Business Sector. [[BE's protests.]] This commitment was from the PS. It was in your Reading Programme on page 16, Mr. Deputies of the Left Block, and therefore it was not removed to irons! It was the will of the government and it was the will of the great left-wing coalition that had been in the previous legislature that allowed this to be possible—yes, political coalition, yes! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The current PS government once again refused to fire public officials, having ended the special retraining and mobility scheme, where in 2015 thousands of employees were about to be fired. Today, we have more than 30,000 workers in the public service, to strengthen their capacity to meet the collective needs of Portuguese and, in particular, to strengthen our social state, especially in sectors such as education and health. PREVPAP, having already examined all applications, has integrated these 20 000 workers. The lexicon has changed. Now, there are no more people who speak, in this plenary, in special mobility, requalification or compulsive dismissal, as happened in 2015. And there's a question to ask the gentlemen. PSD Members : Between 2011 and 2015, who doesn't remember that the state was very "fat"? That there were more workers in the civil service? What was needed was outsourcing, privatization of the Public Administration? And, now, do we integrate very few workers? Oh, my God! But the PSD voted against this law and, therefore, I will not call intellectual dishonesty what has been said today, but a great ideological disorientation, that, yes! Of course these processes are delayed, of course these processes must be rigorous. But those who have perished and spoken ill of the virtues of this process and voted against the law that allowed this extraordinary process of regularization of more than 20 000 workers have no legitimacy today to come to speak and criticize, saying that there were still few. No, no, no. It was those who allowed the law so far! That's the one, miss. Ladies and gentlemen! In the local administration there were more than 10 000 regularized workers, yes, but it was because the law passed in this House by the PCP, the Left Block and the PS so allowed. We are well aware of the problems and difficulties that a process of this nature entails. However, we were pleased because eight institutions where there are problems were mentioned here, in a universe of more than 5600 public institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u170	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u171	I will finish, Madam President. In more than 5600 public institutions, Mr. Members raised questions in about eight. So we're on our way. We therefore thank the Block on the Left for once again demonstrating to the Portuguese the inexorable will of the PS and its Government to do more and more for public workers, for public services and for the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u172	To close this debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has today been well demonstrated and acknowledged by all as this is indeed a historical process.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u175	A historic process since 1997, also with a PS government, has been able to regulate situations that have been irregular for decades. More than 20 000 people now have their situation regularized under PREVPAP. And we can give some examples because when we think about people we realize the impact PREVPAP and regularization of situations has had on many concrete lives: 216 friends have seen their situation regularized, after years in precarious and irregular situations; 180 people from RTP already have their situation regularized; 111 workers from LNEC have already completed their process, and 507 workers from IEFP already have regularised competitions. We all have to be proud of having done, and we will be part of this program. There were parties that did not and therefore I realize that today they are not here with this level of satisfaction and pride because they are part of this structural programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State must be a reference. That is why PREVPAP also has to be completed and must be a reference. As Minister of Labour, I am and will always be available to be here with you in all discussions on the valorization of all workers in Portugal, whether they are from the Public Administration or the private sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I take advantage to greet all the workers present and tell them that I am fully available to meet each one of you and with the open door to always be at your service. That's my mission. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also assume here today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our full commitment to the completion of the programme at the beginning of governance. I have taken note of the various situations that have been pointed out here and of the various processes that, at the moment, need an analysis and conclusion. at the same time, we are opening a new phase of valorization of the workers of the Public Administration, which is reflected, in fact, the new organic of the Government, with the Minister of Modernization of the State and Public Administration. It is a clear priority we have taken not only in the Government Programme but also with a reflection on the government's organics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have given priority to the training of public bodies, after being abused for several years, and to the valorization and training of public administration workers. We take priority over investment in health and safety at work in the Public Administration. We take priority over the stability of public administration workers, with the overall and transversal objective of giving priority to work, value of work and to workers. We have already assumed and implemented the increase of the national minimum wage by 2020, also with this objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also with the aim of the Government Programme, we reach the value of €750 for the national minimum wage for 2023. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] This, with the overall objective of giving priority to the appreciation of those who work, also assuming, from now on, the need to have a comprehensive income and competitiveness agreement with the social partners, which we have already launched and for the discussion of which is already marked for the next day 27. Valuing work is a condition for the competitiveness of our companies. We must have and create conditions for Portugal to value and have the ability to retain our talent. Only companies that value workers are competitive. We therefore assume, from the outset, that, in this global income and competitiveness agreement, we have the ability to value wages globally in its various dimensions, ensuring that they have the weight of GDP that they already had in terms of wage mass, but also by valuing and qualifying Portuguese young people and qualified young people. Only companies that treat equally men and women are competitive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, in the overall agreement on competitiveness and income, we also take priority over the promotion of instruments to enhance equality between men and women at work and of measures to reconcile personal, family and professional life. Only companies that have an active and living social dialogue can faithfully and retain talent and be competitive. It is therefore also our priority to promote and dynamize social dialogue and collective bargaining. Only companies that comply with the law are competitive and have a future. Therefore, we assume the need to strengthen the intervention capacity of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) and we are working on this. Only companies that give stability and trust to workers can create value. hence the priority given to combating precariousness not only in public administration but also in the private sector. And there has already been a signal from 3,500 companies that have joined the program in the last two months to convert term contracts into endless contracts. currently, more than 14,300 workers have submitted applications to achieve this conversion. This is our commitment. We all count on the mobilization of all for these values. Only in this way will we be able to have more and more Portugal that values all and not only a few, and that can create conditions to retain our talent, the talents of Portuguese workers. We count on everyone and on the mobilization of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u176	Thank you very much, Minister. I remember the ladies. Members who are still holding the elections to the Council of State, the National Defence Superior Council and the Internal Security Higher Council and that the polls will be open up to 20 minutes after we close our work today. We shall now turn to the last item on the agenda, which consists of a vote on the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we have to check the quorum, so I ask the services that prepare the electronic system so that we can register and then vote. However, before that, while the Members and the Members. Members register electronically, Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha will report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following bills: No 86 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Visa the protection of migratory and winter bird species through the prohibition of the mechanized harvest of olives during the night period, which falls to 11. the Commission; No 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Alter the Civil Code, establishing the principle of alternate residence of the child in the event of divorce, judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of the marriage of the parents, which falls to 1. the Commission; No 89 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Combats false temporary work and restricts the use of outsourcing and temporary work, which falls to 10. the Commission; No. 91 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends parental protection to parents with children with disabilities, rare disease or oncological disease and determines the payment to 100 % of the allowance for assistance to children with disabilities, chronic illness or cancer, which falls to 10. the Commission; No 92 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recognition of victim status to children who witness or live in the context of domestic violence, which falls to 1. the Commission; No. 93 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Making declarations for future memory mandatory at the request of the victim or the Public Prosecutor, which goes down to 1. the Commission; No 94 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident, which falls to 10. the Commission; No. 95 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening rights and conditions of follow-up to children with chronic, oncological or accident-related disease which falls to 10. the Commission; No. 96 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the Network of Reception and Rehabilitation Centres for Wild and Exotic Animals, which goes down to 7. the Commission; No. 97 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Special scheme for accounting for working time for teachers in incomplete hours, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 98 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Full accounting of all career and special service time, which falls to 8. the Commission in connection with 13. the Commission; No. 99 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), providing compulsory training for judges on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which falls to 1. the Commission; No. 100 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Full recovery of completed service time, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 101 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — aggravated criminal framework for crimes committed against security forces agents ( 50. the amendment to the Penal Code ), which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted to the following draft resolutions: No 77 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a Possible Commission for the Monitoring of Family and Christmas Initiatives, which falls to 10. the Commission; No 83 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a truly national and territorially fair mobility support programme which falls to 6. the Commission; No 84 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — For the right to the citizenship card for persons in a situation without shelter, which falls to 1. the Commission; No 85 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government reduce the use of physicians in the provision of services under the National Health Service and replaces these benefits by hiring the professionals necessary for the operation of health services; No 86 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Government involvement in the search for solutions for the end of tax havens, which goes down to 5. the Commission; No 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of concrete and immediate measures in the field of the use of animals in scientific research, which falls to 7. the Commission; No 88 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assign to the Ombudsman the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal, which falls to 1. the Commission; No 89 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Compliance with the obligations of supporting the arts by the Directorate-General for Arts; No 90 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government promote the cohesion of the Algarve through the rescue of the grant and requalification of the parts of EN125 between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António ; No. 93 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Against gender ideology in schools, which goes down to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, for this effort. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the vote. The electronic picture records 215 presences, so we have a quorum of deliberation. There are 15 men. Members who are not present, unless anyone has been able to register. I suppose everyone here has registered, so we can proceed to the vote. We begin with Vote No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Regret for the death of the Republican National Guard in road accident in A42. I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « This week, Jorge Gomes, Cape of the Republican National Guard, in the performance of the functions entrusted to him by the State, for the purpose of a patrol of the Port Traffic Detachment, was, together with several people, shaken by a car that took place in A42, in Arreigadas, district of Porto, having this unfortunate accident resulted in his death. This outcome, which, regardless of the circumstances and circumstances would always be tragic and fateful, takes even sader contours when the deceased military was hit when he was already on the spot providing assistance to another accident that had occurred there a little while earlier. in a country in which so little respect the authority forces, and in which, daily and free, the State does not properly value all those who dedicate their lives to us in service of the homeland, the Arrival conveys its most sincere and profound regret over the death of military Jorge Gomes, addressing his family and friends with the deepest condolences. Sentiments also extended to relatives and friends of the other victims equally involved. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u180	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the IL were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions against the NAP and the L.]] The following vote No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret of death in service of Cabo Jorge Gomes, the Republican National Guard. I ask Secretary Sofia Araújo to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death last Sunday of Cabo Jorge Gomes, military of the Republican National Guard, following a terrible traffic accident that occurred in A42, in Arreigadas, when he was on site at the service of the GNR Traffic Detachment of the Port. His death was a tragic and regrettable accident, as it occurred unexpectedly at the time he carried out his mission as a GNR military seconded to the site to assist another accident. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic manifests to the family and friends of Cabo Jorge Gomes, as well as to the military of the Republican National Guard, the most sorry for its disappearance in such tragic circumstances. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u182	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u184	In the same sense, we passed to Vote No 57 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by PS Members and a PSD Member ) — Despite the death of Cabo da GNR Jorge Gomes. Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco, please read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last Sunday, November 17, he died, the victim of a violent road accident, while at the service, the GNR cable Jorge Gomes. His death, which occurred as he performed his duties for the sake of the security of the country, is a moment of deep regret for those who recognize a decisive role of the security forces in the functions of sovereignty. The Assembly of the Republic decides: 1 — To express his deep sorrow and dismay at the death while at work, from the Cable of GNR Jorge Gomes and to present his condolences to the family; 2 — To recognize the importance of the role played by the security forces in the country's sovereignty functions. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u186	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 44 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members ).................................................................................................................... I call on Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Members and Members of the Assembly of the Republic took note of the death of José Mário Branco, a major name for Portuguese music and art. Today the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the artist, singer and composer, who was also an anti-fascist and combatant political fighter against oppression and inequality. The reactions to the news of his death, of the most varied quadrants of Portuguese society, testify to the well-deserved highlight he achieved in Portuguese culture. « Great » and « generous » are two adjectives that are associated with José Mário Branco. José Mário Branco is one of the greatest names of the Portuguese song, in a journey that began long before April 25 and lasted until today. And it will last, actually, as long as we have memory. As author, it leaves endless albums such as Change the Times, Change the Wills ( 1971 ), Margin de True Maneira ( 1973 ) or IMF ( 1982 ). It was a unique figure of intervention music, of the April song, crossing various musical genres, from popular singer to classical music, passing through rock, jazz or French music. Much beyond the label of the "intervention song", he worked with people from all generations, he composed, produced, supported, taught and influenced people from so many musical backgrounds. José Mário Branco's artistic intervention did not remain for the music, having also dedicated his teacher to cinema and theatre. It has always marked by rigor, aesthetic requirement and radicality of its ethical commitment. José Mário Branco was born in Porto in 1942. He attended the course of History, in Coimbra and then in Porto. Anti-fascist, persecuted by PIDE, his committed civic intervention and political activity led him to exile in France in 1963, where he never stopped fighting for the end of the dictatorship. He returned to Portugal in 1974, with freedom, to help build a more just country, a purpose that never ceased to worry. In 1974 and 1975, he participated in the Portuguese music renewal movement and in the popular mobilization for social transformation. His activism also went through UDP, from which he was a founder, being elected a member of his National Council in 1980. He supported the creation of the Left Block in 1999, of which he was the leader, integrating the National Bureau. José Mário Branco leaves the country a precious musical legacy, as well as an example of non-conformity, rebellion and coherence that also helped build our democracy. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of José Mário Branco, addressing his most sincere condolences to relatives and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u188	The two sons of José Mário Branco, John and Peter Branco, as well as their two grandchildren Laura and Diogo Branco, are present in the Assembly. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause, ladies and gentlemen.]] We passed to Vote No 45 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CH ) — To regret the death of Maria Argentina Pinto dos Santos. Mrs. Sofia Araújo will please read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « This week, on November 18, at the age of 95, died the emblematic Fadist Argentina Santos. Born in Mouraria on February 6, 1924, he began his connection to the fairy as a cook in the parish of Alfama, where he began to sing with other great names of the fado alfakinha. Later, in the 1950s, he bought the space and transformed it into one of the most iconic sites in the fado. He began his record career in 1958, released his first album in 1978, and the last one on the ground was to be published in 2002. In 2009 she suffered a stroke, which led her away from the stage. Argentina Santos took the fado and Portugal to Brazil, Greece, France, Holland, United Kingdom, Spain and Italy, having become patron of the Fado Academy in Recanati and honored in Ascona. In our country, the Fairy Museum paid tribute to the fadist in November 1999 and received the award of praise from the City Hall of Lisbon and the diploma of Soyia de Mérito delivered by the Portuguese Association of Friends of the Fairy. Already in 2005, he received the Amália Prize and saw his Alfama Parish be distinguished with the trophy for fado houses / Casa da Impressa, delivered at the Grand Night of the Fairy of Lisbon, at the Teatro São Luiz. In 2010 he received the Gold Medal from the city of Lisbon, to which he would join, in this already vast list of distinctions, in 2013, the decoration with which he was thanked by the then President of the Republic, Prof. Aníbal Cavaco Silva, with the order of the Order of the Child. at this moment of departure, the most felt condolences to his family and friends, in a loss that physically impoverishs the fado, the city of Lisbon and Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u190	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 59 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members )............................................................................................................................................. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « World Day in Memory of Road Victims, which aims to public evoke the victims of traffic accidents and their families, was this year, marked on November 17 in Évora, under the theme « Life is not a piece of car» (Lifeis not a car part ), based on Pillar 3 of the Global Plan for the Decade of Action for Road Safety — safer vehicles. Despite efforts to reduce road fatality, with the renewal of road roads, the updating of the car park and the improvement of the response of the medical emergency, the number of victims is still intolerable: from 1 January to 15 November this year, 416 fatal victims, 1966 serious injuries and 36,544 minor injuries were recorded. These indicators, with the underlying emotional and economic devastation, impose on all — sovereign bodies, national authorities and the general population — an increase in efforts to combat and prevent this national scourge. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to the victims of the road, expresses its solidarity with their families and recognizes the contribution of the security forces, emergency teams and other health professionals who daily deal with this tragic reality. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now proceed to the vote on vote No 42 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and signed by a PSD Member ) — Of solidarity and regret for the Hong Kong population. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and the L abstention.]] We continue with the vote on vote No 50 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Concern about the situation in Hong Kong territory. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and L and BE abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 56 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and concern about the situation in Hong Kong. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and L, and abstentions against CDS-PP and CH.]] The vote on vote No 51 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — Of regret and solidarity with the trans community on the occasion of the Trans Memory Day. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the L, the votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u193	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u194	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u195	Mr President, it is to announce a statement of vote on behalf of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u196	Madam Member, it is recorded that they will deliver a statement of vote. Mrs. Members, before we proceed to the vote on vote No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Greetings by 44. the November 25th anniversary, the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group requested 2 minutes to intervene. Therefore, anyone who wishes to intervene, for 2 minutes, on this vote may do so. About this or about the next, as it is obvious. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presented a vote of 25 November, at the beginning, for a very simple reason. Because, if it were not this vote, I have the feeling that this date would simply be forgotten and ignored throughout the country by any institution, whatever it is, or by any body of power. Is it fair or is it true that November 25 could be ignored? For us, on the CDS, no. On 25 November it is the decisive date for the revolution started on 25 April not to be an attempt to create a new Cuba or Albania in Portugal, but rather a democratic state based on public freedoms and a democracy of Western model. That was the decisive day and, for us, that decisive day should not be forgotten. Therefore, year after year, we propose that this date of 25 November be recalled here in the Assembly of the Republic. We also propose that his authors be honored, that his great figures be honored: men like Ramalho Eanes, men like Tomé Pinto and, still speaking in the military, men who never deserve to be forgotten, such as the Commander of the Amador Command Regiment, Jaime Neves, hero of November 25! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, CH, IL and PSD Members.]] For us, they are important figures, as are important figures all civilians who participated on 25 November, so all figures who participated on 25 November. This is our idea, this is our intention. It only surprises us, what is strange, is that some of those who were on the side of November 25, because their party leaders were also on the side of November 25,—Friits of the Amaral, Sá Carneiro, Mário Soares, were on the side of November 25, on the side of democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u198	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u199	... but we also know who was on the other side—they seem to have fallen to the other side of the wall. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u200	Mr Pedro Bacelar of Vasconcelos, of the Socialist Party, also asked for the floor to intervene. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democracy is not a gift. Democracy is a permanent struggle. The democracy we are part of had its dawn on 25 April 1974,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u202	... but based on pillars built for 48 years of resistance to dictatorship, and this can never be minimized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u203	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u204	The democratic construction, which began in April 1974, met its first stage with the approval of the Constitution in this House by the Constituent Assembly in 1976.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u205	Thanks on November 25th!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u206	We all know, but 40 years later we were able to observe this time with serenity and objectivity that the heat of the coolings, of course, did not allow during these two years of transition until we reached this first stage. We are very proud of the role the Socialist Party has played, we have special pride in the intervention of Mário Soares and we have the greatest appreciation for all those who have fought for the result of the 1976 Constitution and the democracy that we continue to build today.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u207	What about November 25th? Oh, my God! Didn't it exist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u208	Mário Soares, Francisco Sá Carneiro, Freitas do Amaral, Álvaro Cunhal, we are very grateful to these and many others who have been able to face the difficulties...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u209	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u210	...in the process of democratic transition...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u211	On November 25th, didn't it exist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u212	...and that they managed to build an exemplary process, recognized by everyone. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u213	It's a shame for the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u214	Let's move on to the vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u215	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u216	Mr, normally the entries are made before the intervention starts rather than after the intervention, but in a spirit of tolerance we will give the floor to the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u217	Mr President, of course, but on this matter, I would like to say that there has been some delay, because the PSD Parliamentary Group has not been timely and properly informed...
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u218	If so, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u219	... about the availability of time to intervene at this time and about this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u220	If so, the Bureau was penitentiary. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u221	Despite everything, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group cannot remain silent on a matter of this importance. Therefore, I would like to mention two or three aspects that seem important to us. First, we, PSD, have honor and sincerely have a positive feeling about what the Portuguese have done in relation to their history. No moment in these last years of building our democracy is embarrassing; on the contrary, we have the feeling, on the side of the Social Democratic Party, that we were builders of this same democracy. A founder of our party was one of the builders of our democratic regime: Francisco Sá Carneiro, which I invoke at the moment. Mr President, for us, freedoms do not have an objective temporal binding. We, of course, celebrate April 25, always and always celebrate November 25, as we celebrate every day regarding the construction of our democracy and our freedom. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u222	Now, yes, I think we can... There's Mr. Ladies and gentlemen who are asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u223	Mr President, it's just to account for the presence, because we can't register.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. We will return to the vote and vote vote No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Greetings by 44. the anniversary of 25 November. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and 7 PS Members (Ascended Simões, Hortense Martins, João Ataíde, João Paulo Pedrosa, Marcos Perestrello, Pedro Cegonho and Sérgio Sousa Pinto), votes against BE, PCP, PEV and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira and the PS and PAN abstentions.]] [[PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL applause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members who have not been able to see that they do so after the votes have ended, because in the middle of the votes there is no point in interrupting. Let us now proceed to the vote on vote No 53 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Greetings to the construction of democracy in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP and the CDS-PP, the CH, L and PS Member Sérgio Sousa Pinto were adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, PAN and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u225	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u226	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u227	Mr President, it is only to inform that the Liberal Initiative will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u228	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u229	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u230	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u231	Mr President, it is also to inform the House that we will present a statement of vote on the vote on this vote which will be deleted on 25 November.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u232	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u233	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u234	Mr. Sérgio Sousa Pinto, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u235	Mr President, it is to inform me that I voted against the amalgamation and historical revisionism.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u236	Mr President, I did not give you the floor to make an oral vote. I gave you the floor just to announce a written vote statement and not to justify your vote. As has been combined, we will vote together on Votes 43 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CDS-PP ) — Congratulations by Grammy Latino par excellence musical received by José Cid and No 48 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PSD and signed by PS Members ) — Congratulations on the allocation of Grammy Latin to José Cid. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 46 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CH and signed by a PSD member ) — From praise to Edgar Morin for the public commendations addressed to Portugal and the Lusophonia. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH, votes against BE, PCP and L, and the abstentions from PAN, ENP and IL.]] Let us now vote for Vote No 54 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP ) — Condemning the new Israeli aggression in Gaza and the Trump Administration statement on Israeli settlements. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstentions of the L and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u237	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u238	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u239	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u240	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u241	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u242	You have the floor, Mr. Pedro Roque.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u243	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u244	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on vote No 55 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the NAP and subscribed by a PS Member ) — Condemnation by the increase in the rate of deforestation of Amazonia and by the absence of policies for the protection and preservation of nature. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the L and the abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u245	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u246	Mr. João Oliveira, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u247	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u248	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u249	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u250	You have the floor, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u251	Mr President, it is to announce the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u252	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u253	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u254	Mr. André Ventura, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u255	Mr President, it is also to announce the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u256	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u258	Mr Maló de Abreu, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u259	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u260	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following vote No 58 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the CDS-PP and signed by a PS Member and a PSD Member ) — Of repudiation and condemnation of racism in sport and of solidarity with the athlete of the National Selection Bernardo Silva, who will be voted on by points at the request of the PAN. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE and L were rejected, votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u261	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u262	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u263	Mr President, it is in order to tell the Bureau that we will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u264	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u265	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2019-11-22.u266	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we move on to draft resolution No 34 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government update the list of materials containing asbestos in the buildings, installations and equipment where public services are provided, for which the PSD and PS required separate voting of each point. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and the abstention from CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and L, votes against PS and abstentions by CH and IL were adopted.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the L and the PSD and the CH abstentions.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the vote. I recall that the votes for the various bodies to be elected today by the Assembly will continue to take another 20 minutes. I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members who have not yet voted in favour of doing so. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 27 November, beginning at 3 p.m. The agenda has as its sole point the debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. Thanks a lot to everyone and a good weekend. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]]
